
     ----CITATION---- 
        Phillips, David Graham, 1867-1911. Susan Lenox: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2459
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                SUSAN LENOX: HER FALL AND RISE
                
            
            
            
                By David Graham Phillips
                
                    Susan Lenox: Her Fall and Rise
                    The Price She Paid Degarmo's Wife
                    George Helm The Conflict
                    The Grain of Dust The Hungry Heart
                    The Husband's Story White Magic
                    The Fashionable Adventures of Joshua Craig The Second Generation
                    Old Wives for New The Worth of a Woman
                    Light-Fingered Gentry The Deluge
                    The Social Secretary The Plum Tree
                    The Cost The Master Rogue
                    Golden Fleece A Woman Ventures
                    The Great God Success The Mother Light
                
            
            
            
                
                DAVID GRAHAM PHILLIPS AS
                        HE WORKED
                
                
            
            
            
                David Graham Phillips
                
                    SUSAN LENOX 
                    HER FALL AND RISE
                    VOLUME II
                
                
                WITH A PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR
                
                    D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
                    NEW YORK
                    LONDON
                    1917
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1917, BY
                     D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
                COPYRIGHT, 1915, 1916, BY
                        THE INTERNATIONAL MAGAZINE COMPANY
                
                Printed in the United States of America
            
        
        
            
            
                SUSAN LENOX
                
                
                    I
                    
                        SUSAN'S impulse was toward the stage. It had
                        become a definite ambition with her, the stronger because Spenser's
                        jealousy and suspicion had forced her to keep it a secret, to pretend to
                        herself that she had no thought but going on indefinitely as his obedient
                        and devoted mistress. The hardiest and best growths are the growths
                        inward—where they have sun and air from without. She had been at
                        the theater several times every week, and had studied the performances at a
                        point of view very different from that of the audience. It was there to be
                        amused; she was there to learn. Spenser and such of his friends as he would
                        let meet her talked plays and acting most of the time. He had forbidden her
                        to have women friends. "Men don't demoralize women; women
                        demoralize each other," was one of his axioms. But such women as
                        she had a bowing acquaintance with were all on the stage—in comic
                        operas or musical farces. She was much alone; that meant many hours every
                        day which could not but be spent by a mind like hers in reading and in
                        thinking. Only those who have observed the difference aloneness makes in
                        mental development, where there is a good mind, can appreciate how rapidly,
                        how broadly, Susan expanded. She read plays more than any other kind of  literature. She did not read them casually but
                        was always thinking how they would act. She was soon making in imagination
                        stage scenes out of dramatic chapters in novels as she read. More and more
                        clearly the characters of play and novel took shape and substance before the
                        eyes of her fancy. But the stage was clearly out of the question.
                    While the idea of a stage career had been dominant, she had thought in other
                        directions, also. Every Sunday, indeed almost every day, she found in the
                        newspapers articles on the subject of work for women.
                    "Why do you waste time on that stuff?" said Drumley, when
                        he discovered her taste for it.
                    "Oh, a woman never can tell what may happen," replied
                        she.
                    "She'll never learn anything from those fool
                        articles," answered he. "You ought to hear the people who
                        get them up laughing about them. I see now why they are printed.
                        It's good for circulation, catches the women—even women
                        like you." However, she persisted in reading. But never did she
                        find an article that contained a really practical suggestion—that
                        is, one applying to the case of a woman who had to live on what she made at
                        the start, who was without experience and without a family to help her. All
                        around her had been women who were making their way; but few indeed of
                        them—even of those regarded as successful—were getting
                        along without outside aid of some kind. So when she read or thought or
                        inquired about work for women, she was sometimes amused and oftener made
                        unhappy by the truth as to the conditions, that when a common worker rises
                        it is almost always by the helping hand of a man, and rarely indeed a
                        generous hand—a painful and shameful truth which a society resolved
                        at any cost  to think well of itself fiercely
                        conceals from itself and hypocritically lies about.
                    She felt now that there was hope in only one direction—hope of
                        occupation that would enable her to live in physical, moral and mental
                        decency. She must find some employment where she could as decently as might
                        be realize upon her physical assets. The stage would be best—but
                        the stage was impossible, at least for the time. Later on she would try for
                        it; there was in her mind not a doubt of that, for unsuspected of any who
                        knew her there lay, beneath her sweet and gentle exterior, beneath her
                        appearance of having been created especially for love and laughter and
                        sympathy, tenacity of purpose and daring of ambition that
                        were—rarely—hinted at the surface in her moments of
                        abstraction. However, just now the stage was impossible. Spenser would find
                        her immediately. She must go into another part of town, must work at
                        something that touched his life at no point.
                    She had often been told that her figure would be one of her chief assets as a
                        player. And ready-made clothes fitted her with very slight
                        alterations—showing that she had a model figure. The advertisements
                        she had cut out were for cloak models. Within an hour after she left
                        Forty-fourth Street, she found at Jeffries and Jonas, in Broadway a few
                        doors below Houston, a vacancy that had not yet been filled—though
                        as a rule all the help needed was got from the throng of applicants waiting
                        when the store opened.
                    "Come up to my office," said Jeffries, who happened to be
                        near the door as she entered. "We'll see how you shape up.
                        We want something extra—something dainty and catchy."
                    He was a short thick man, with flat feet, a flat face  and an almost bald head. In his flat nostrils, in the hollows of
                        his great forward bent ears and on the lobes were bunches of coarse, stiff
                        gray hairs. His eyebrows bristled; his small, sly brown eyes twinkled with
                        good nature and with sensuality. His skin had the pallor that suggests
                        kidney trouble. His words issued from his thick mouth as if he were tasting
                        each beforehand—and liked the flavor. He led Susan into his private
                        office, closed the door, took a tape measure from his desk. "Now,
                        my dear," said he, eyeing her form gluttonously,
                        "we'll size you up—eh? You're exactly
                        the build I like."
                    And under the pretense of taking her measurements, he fumbled and felt,
                        pinched and stroked every part of her person, laughing and chuckling the
                        while. "My, but you are sweet! And so firm! What flesh!
                        Solid—solid! Mighty healthy! You are a good
                        girl—eh?"
                    "I am a married woman."
                    "But you've got no ring."
                    "I've never worn a ring."
                    "Well—well! I believe that is one of the new wrinkles, but
                        I don't approve. I'm an old-fashioned family man. Let me
                        see again. Now, don't mind a poor old man like me, my dear.
                        I've got a wife—the best woman in the world, and
                        I've never been untrue to her. A look over the fence
                        occasionally—but not an inch out of the pasture. Don't
                        stiffen yourself like that. I can't judge, when you do. Not too
                        much hips—neither sides nor back. Fine! Fine! And the thigh
                        slender—yes—quite lovely, my dear. Thick thighs spoil the
                        hang of garments. Yes—yes—a splendid figure. I'll
                        bet the bosom is a corker—fine skin and nice ladylike size. You can
                        have the place."
                    "What does it pay?" she asked.
                    
                    "Ten dollars, to start with. Splendid wages. I
                        started on two fifty. But I forgot—you don't know the
                        business?"
                    "No—nothing about it," was her innocent, honest
                        answer.
                    "Ah—well, then—nine
                        dollars—eh?"
                    Susan hesitated.
                    "You can make quite a neat little bunch on the outside—you can. We cater only to the best trade, and the buyers
                        who come to us are big easy spenders. But I'm supposed to know
                        nothing about that. You'll find out from the other girls."
                        He chuckled. "Oh, it's a nice soft life—except
                        for a few weeks along at this part of the year—and again in winter.
                        Well—ten dollars, then."
                    Susan accepted. It was more than she had expected to get; it was less than
                        she could hope to live on in New York in anything approaching the manner a
                        person of any refinement or tastes or customs of comfort regards as merely
                        decent. She must descend again to the tenements, must resume the fight
                        against that physical degradation which sooner or later
                        imposes—upon those descending to it—a
                        degradation of mind and heart deeper, more saturating, more putrefying than
                        any that ever originated from within. Not so long as her figure lasted was
                        she the worse off for not knowing a trade. Jeffries was telling the truth;
                        she would be getting splendid wages, not merely for a beginner but for any
                        woman of the working class. Except in rare occasional instances wages and
                        salaries for women were kept down below the standard of decency by
                        woman's peculiar position—by such conditions as that most
                        women took up work as a temporary makeshift or to piece out a
                        family's earnings, and that almost any 
                        woman could supplement—and so many did supplement—their
                        earnings at labor with as large or larger earnings in the stealthy shameful
                        way. Where was there a trade that would bring a girl ten dollars a week at
                        the start? Even if she were a semi-professional, a stenographer and
                        typewriter, it would take expertness and long service to lift her up to such
                        wages. Thanks to her figure—to its chancing to please old
                        Jeffries' taste—she was better off than all but a few
                        working women, than all but a few workingmen. She was of the labor
                        aristocracy; and if she had been one of a family of workers she would have
                        been counted an enviable favorite of fortune. Unfortunately, she was
                        alone—unfortunately for herself, not at all from the standpoint of
                        the tenement class she was now joining. Among them she would be a person who
                        could afford the luxuries of life as life reveals itself to the
                        tenements.
                    "Tomorrow morning at seven o'clock," said
                        Jeffries. "You have lost your husband?"
                    "Yes."
                    "I saw you'd had great grief. No insurance, I judge?
                        Well—you will find another—maybe a rich one.
                        No—you'll not have to sleep alone long, my dear."
                        And he patted her on the shoulder, gave her a parting fumble of shoulders
                        and arms.
                    She was able to muster a grateful smile; for she felt a rare kindness of
                        heart under the familiar animalism to which good-looking, well-formed women
                        who go about much unescorted soon grow accustomed. Also, experience had
                        taught her that, as things go with girls of the working class, his treatment
                        was courteous, considerate, chivalrous almost. With men in absolute control
                        of all kinds of work, with women stimulating the sex appetite by openly or
                        covertly using their charms  as female to assist
                        them in the cruel struggle for existence—what was to be
                        expected?
                    Her way to the elevator took her along aisles lined with tables, hidden under
                        masses of cloaks, jackets, dresses and materials for making them. They
                        exuded the odors of the factory—faint yet pungent odors that
                        brought up before her visions of huge, badly ventilated rooms, where women
                        aged or ageing swiftly were toiling hour after hour
                        monotonously—spending half of each day in buying the right to eat
                        and sleep unhealthily. The odors—or, rather, the visions they
                        evoked—made her sick at heart. For the moment she came from under
                        the spell of her peculiar trait—her power to do without whimper or
                        vain gesture of revolt the inevitable thing, whatever it was. She paused to
                        steady herself, half leaning against a lofty uppiling of winter cloaks. A
                        girl, young at first glance, not nearly so young thereafter, suddenly
                        appeared before her—a girl whose hair had the sheen of burnished
                        brass and whose soft smooth skin was of that frog-belly whiteness which
                        suggests an inheritance of some bleaching and blistering disease. She had
                        small regular features, eyes that at once suggested looseness, good-natured
                        yet mercenary too. She was dressed in the sleek tight-fitting trying-on robe
                        of the professional model, and her figure was superb in its firm
                        luxuriousness.
                    "Sick?" asked the girl with real kindliness.
                    "No—only dizzy for the moment."
                    "I suppose you've had a hard day."
                    "It might have been easier," Susan replied, attempting a
                        smile.
                    "It's no fun, looking for a job. But you've caught
                        on?"
                    "Yes. He took me."
                    
                    "I made a bet with myself that he would when I saw you go
                        in." The girl laughed agreeably. "He picked you for
                        Gideon."
                    "What department is that?"
                    The girl laughed again, with a cynical squinting of the eyes. "Oh,
                        Gideon's our biggest customer. He buys for the largest house in
                        Chicago."
                    "I'm looking for a place to live," said Susan.
                        "Some place in this part of town."
                    "How much do you want to spend?"
                    "I'm to have ten a week. So I can't afford more
                        than twelve or fourteen a month for rent, can I?"
                    "If you happen to have to live on the ten," was the reply
                        with a sly, merry smile.
                    "It's all I've got."
                    Again the girl laughed, the good-humored mercenary eyes twinkling rakishly.
                        "Well—you can't get much for fourteen a
                        month."
                    "I don't care, so long as it's
                        clean."
                    "Gee, you're reasonable, ain't you?"
                        cried the girl.
                    "Clean! I pay fourteen a week, and all kinds of things come through
                        the cracks from the other apartments. You must be a stranger to little old
                        New York—bug-town, a lady friend of mine calls it.
                        Alone?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Um—" The girl shook her head dubiously.
                        "Rents are mighty steep in New York, and going up all the time. You
                        see, the rich people that own the lands and houses here need a lot of money
                        in their business. You've got either to take a room or part of one
                        in with some tenement family, respectable but noisy and dirty and not at all
                        refined, or else you've got to live in a house where everything
                        goes. You want to live respectable, I judge?"
                    
                    "Yes."
                    "That's the way with me. Do what you please, I say, but for God's sake,
                        don't make yourself common! You'll want
                        to be free to have your gentlemen friends come—and at the same time
                        a room you'll not be ashamed for 'em to see on account of
                        dirt and smells and common people around."
                    "I shan't want to see anyone in my room."
                    The young woman winced, then went on with hasty enthusiasm.
                    "I knew you were refined the minute I looked at you. I think you
                        might get a room in the house of a lady friend of mine—Mrs. Tucker,
                        up in Clinton Place near University Place—an elegant
                        neighborhood—that is, the north side of the street. The south
                        side's kind o' low, on account of dagoes having moved in
                        there. They live like vermin—but then all tenement people
                        do."
                    "They've got to," said Susan.
                    "Yes, that's a fact. Ain't it awful? I'll
                        write down the name and address of my lady friend. I'm Miss Mary
                        Hinkle."
                    "My name is Lorna Sackville," said Susan, in response to
                        the expectant look of Miss Hinkle.
                    "My, what a swell name! You've been sick, haven't
                        you?"
                    "No, I'm never sick."
                    "Me too. My mother taught me to stop eating as soon as I felt bad,
                        and not to eat again till I was all right."
                    "I do that, too," said Susan. "Is it good for the
                        health?"
                    "It starves the doctors. You've never worked
                        before?"
                    "Oh, yes—I've worked in a factory."
                    
                    Miss Hinkle looked disappointed. Then she gave Susan a side glance of
                        incredulity. "I'd never 'a' thought it.
                        But I can see you weren't brought up to that. I'll write
                        the address." And she went back through the showroom, presently to
                        reappear with a card which she gave Susan. "You'll find
                        Mrs. Tucker a perfect lady—too much a lady to get on. I tell her
                        she'll go to ruin—and she will."
                    Susan thanked Miss Hinkle and departed. A few minutes' walk brought
                        her to the old, high-stooped, brown-stone where Mrs. Tucker lived. The
                        dents, scratches and old paint scales on the door, the dust-streaked
                        windows, the slovenly hang of the imitation lace window curtains proclaimed
                        the cheap middle-class lodging or boarding house of the humblest grade.
                        Respectable undoubtedly; for the fitfully prosperous offenders against laws
                        and morals insist upon better accommodations. Susan's heart sank.
                        She saw that once more she was clinging at the edge of the precipice. And
                        what hope was there that she would get back to firm ground? Certainly not by
                        "honest labor." Back to the tenement! "Yes,
                        I'm on the way back," she said to herself. However, she
                        pulled the loose bell-knob and was admitted to a dingy, dusty hallway by a
                        maid so redolent of stale perspiration that it was noticeable even in the
                        hall's strong saturation of smells of cheap cookery. The parlor
                        furniture was rapidly going to pieces; the chromos and prints hung crazily
                        awry; dust lay thick upon the center table, upon the chimney-piece, upon the
                        picture frames, upon the carving in the rickety old chairs. Only by standing
                        did Susan avoid service as a dust rag. It was typical of the profound
                        discouragement that blights or blasts all but a small area of our modern
                        civilization—a discouragement  due in
                        part to ignorance—but not at all to the cause usually
                        assigned—to "natural shiftlessness." It is
                        chiefly due to an unconscious instinctive feeling of the hopelessness of the
                        average lot.
                    While Susan explained to Mrs. Tucker how she had come and what she could
                        afford, she examined her with results far from disagreeable. One glance into
                        that homely wrinkled face was enough to convince anyone of her goodness of
                        heart—and to Susan in those days of aloneness, of uncertainty, of
                        the feeling of hopelessness, goodness of heart seemed the supreme charm.
                        Such a woman as a landlady, and a landlady in New York, was pathetically
                        absurd. Even to still rather simple-minded Susan she seemed an invitation to
                        the swindler, to the sponger with the hard-luck story, to the sinking who
                        clutch about desperately and drag down with them everyone who permits them
                        to get a hold.
                    "I've only got one room," said Mrs. Tucker.
                        "That's not any too nice. I did rather calculate to get
                        five a week for it, but you are the kind I like to have in the house. So if
                        you want it I'll let it to you for fourteen a month. And I do hope
                        you'll pay as steady as you can. There's so many in such
                        hard lines that I have a tough time with my rent. I've got to pay
                        my rent, you know."
                    "I'll go as soon as I can't pay," replied
                        Susan. The landlady's apologetic tone made her sick at heart, as a
                        sensitive human being must ever feel in the presence of a fellow-being
                        doomed to disaster.
                    "Thank you," said Mrs. Tucker gratefully. "I do
                        wish—" She checked herself. "No, I don't
                        mean that. They do the best they can—and I'll botch along
                        somehow. I look at the bright side of things."
                    The incurable optimism of the smile accompanying  these words moved Susan, abnormally bruised and tender of heart that
                        morning, almost to tears. A woman with her own way to make, and always
                        looking at the bright side!
                    "How long have you had this house?"
                    "Only five months. My husband died a year ago. I had to give up our
                        little business six months after his death. Such a nice little stationery
                        store, but I couldn't seem to refuse credit or to collect bills.
                        Then I came here. This looks like losing, too. But I'm sure
                        I'll come out all right. The Lord will provide, as the Good Book
                        says. I don't have no trouble keeping the house full. Only they
                        don't seem to pay. You want to see your room?"
                    She and Susan ascended three flights to the top story—to a closet of
                        a room at the back. The walls were newly and brightly papered. The sloping
                        roof of the house made one wall a ceiling also, and in this two small
                        windows were set. The furniture was a tiny bed, white and clean as to its
                        linen, a table, two chairs, a small washstand with a little bowl and a less
                        pitcher, a soap dish and a mug. Along one wall ran a row of hooks. On the
                        floor was an old and incredibly dirty carpet, mitigated by a strip of clean
                        matting which ran from the door, between washstand and bed, to one of the
                        windows.
                    Susan glanced round—a glance was enough to enable her to see
                        all—all that was there, all that the things there implied. Back to
                        the tenement life! She shuddered.
                    "It ain't much," said Mrs. Tucker. "But
                        usually rooms like these rents for five a week."
                    The sun had heated the roof scorching hot; the air of this room, immediately
                        underneath, was like that of  a cellar where a
                        furnace is in full blast. But Susan knew she was indeed in luck.
                        "It's clean and nice here," said she to Mrs.
                        Tucker, "and I'm much obliged to you for being so
                        reasonable with me." And to clinch the bargain she then and there
                        paid half a month's rent. "I'll give you the rest
                        when my week at the store's up."
                    "No hurry," said Mrs. Tucker who was handling the money and
                        looking at it with glistening grateful eyes. "Us poor folks
                        oughtn't to be hard on each other—though, Lord knows, if
                        we was, I reckon we'd not be quite so poor. It's them that
                        has the streak of hard in 'em what gets on. But the Bible teaches
                        us that's what to expect in a world of sin. I suppose you want to
                        go now and have your trunk sent?"
                    "This is all I've got," said Susan, indicating her
                        bag on the table.
                    Into Mrs. Tucker's face came a look of terror that made Susan
                        realize in an instant how hard-pressed she must be. It was the kind of look
                        that comes into the eyes of the deer brought down by the dogs when it sees
                        the hunter coming up.
                    "But I've a good place," Susan hastened to say.
                        "I get ten a week. And as I told you before, when I can't
                        pay I'll go right away."
                    "I've lost so much in bad debts," explained the
                        landlady humbly. "I don't seem to see which way to
                        turn." Then she brightened. "It'll all come out
                        for the best. I work hard and I try to do right by everybody."
                    "I'm sure it will," said Susan believingly.
                    Often her confidence in the moral ideals trained into her from childhood had
                        been sorely tried. But never had she permitted herself more than a hasty,
                        ashamed doubt that the only way to get on was to work and to practice the
                        Golden Rule. Everyone who was prosperous 
                        attributed his prosperity to the steadfast following of that way; as for
                        those who were not prosperous, they were either lazy or bad-hearted, or
                        would have been even worse off had they been less faithful to the creed that
                        was best policy as well as best for peace of mind and heart.
                    In trying to be as inexpensive to Spenser as she could contrive, and also
                        because of her passion for improving herself, Susan had explored far into
                        the almost unknown art of living, on its shamefully neglected material side.
                        She had cultivated the habit of spending much time about her purchases of
                        every kind—had spent time intelligently in saving money
                        intelligently. She had gone from shop to shop, comparing values and prices.
                        She had studied quality in food and in clothing; and thus she had discovered
                        what enormous sums are wasted through ignorance—wasted by poor even
                        more lavishly than by rich or well-to-do, because the shops where the poor
                        dealt had absolutely no check on their rapacity through the occasional canny
                        customer. She had learned the fundamental truth of the material art of
                        living; only when a good thing happens to be cheap is a cheap thing good.
                        Spenser, cross-examining her as to how she passed the days, found out about
                        this education she was acquiring. It amused him. "A waste of
                        time!" he used to say. "Pay what they ask, and
                        don't bother your head with such petty matters." He might
                        have suspected and accused her of being stingy had not her generosity been
                        about the most obvious and incessant trait of her character.
                    She was now reduced to an income below what life can be decently maintained
                        upon—the life of a city-dweller with normal tastes for cleanliness
                        and healthfulness. She proceeded without delay to put her invaluable  education into use. She must fill her mind
                        with the present and with the future. She must not glance back. She must
                        ignore her wounds—their aches, their clamorous throbs. She took off
                        her clothes, as soon as Mrs. Tucker left her alone, brushed them and hung
                        them up, put on the thin wrapper she had brought in her bag. The fierce heat
                        of the little packing-case of a room became less unendurable; also, she was
                        saving the clothes from useless wear. She sat down at the table and with
                        pencil and paper planned her budget.
                    Of the ten dollars a week, three dollars and thirty cents must be subtracted
                        for rent—for shelter. This left six dollars and seventy cents for
                        the other two necessaries, food and clothing—there must be no
                        incidental expenses since there was no money to meet them. She could not
                        afford to provide for carfare on stormy days; a rain coat, overshoes and
                        umbrella, more expensive at the outset, were incomparably cheaper in the
                        long run. Her washing and ironing she would of course do for herself in the
                        evenings and on Sundays. Of the two items which the six dollars and seventy
                        cents must cover, food came first in importance. How little could she live
                        on?
                    That stifling hot room! She was as wet as if she had come undried from a
                        bath. She had thought she could never feel anything but love for the sun of
                        her City of the Sun. But this undreamed-of heat—like the cruel
                        caresses of a too impetuous lover—
                    How little could she live on?"
                    Dividing her total of six dollars and seventy cents by seven, she found that
                        she had ninety-five cents a day. She would soon have to buy clothes, however
                        scrupulous care she might take of those she possessed. It was modest indeed
                        to estimate fifteen dollars for clothes  before
                        October. That meant she must save fifteen dollars in the remaining three
                        weeks of June, in July, August and September—in one hundred and ten
                        days. She must save about fifteen cents a day. And out of that she must buy
                        soap and tooth powder, outer and under clothes, perhaps a hat and a pair of
                        shoes. Thus she could spend for food not more than eighty cents a day, as
                        much less as was consistent with buying the best quality—for she
                        had learned by bitter experience the ravages poor quality food makes in
                        health and looks, had learned why girls of the working class go to pieces
                        swiftly after eighteen. She must fight to keep health—sick she did
                        not dare be. She must fight to keep looks—her figure was her
                        income.
                    Eighty cents a day. The outlook was not so gloomy. A cup of cocoa in the
                        morning—made at home of the best cocoa, the kind that did not
                        overheat the blood and disorder the skin—it would cost her less
                        than ten cents. She would carry lunch with her to the store. In the evening
                        she would cook a chop or something of that kind on the gas stove she would
                        buy. Some days she would be able to save twenty or even twenty-five cents
                        toward clothing and the like. Whatever else happened, she was resolved never
                        again to sink to dirt and rags. Never again!—never! She had passed
                        through that experience once without loss of self-respect only because it
                        was by way of education. To go through it again would be yielding ground in
                        the fight—the fight for a destiny worth while which some latent but
                        mighty instinct within her never permitted her to forget.
                    She sat at the table, with the shutters closed against the fiery light of the
                        summer afternoon sun. That hideous unacceptable heat! With eyelids
                        drooped—deep and dark were the circles round them—she
                        listened  to the roar of the city, a savage
                        sound like the clamor of a multitude of famished wild beasts. A city like
                        the City of Destruction in "Pilgrim's
                        Progress"—a city where of all the millions, but a few
                        thousands were moving toward or keeping in the sunlight of civilization. The
                        rest, the swarms of the cheap boarding houses, cheap lodging houses,
                        tenements—these myriads were squirming in darkness and squalor,
                        ignorant and never to be less ignorant, ill fed and never to be better fed,
                        clothed in pitiful absurd rags or shoddy vulgar attempts at finery, and
                        never to be better clothed. She would not be of those! She would struggle
                        on, would sink only to mount. She would work; she would try to do as nearly
                        right as she could. And in the end she must triumph. She would get at least
                        a good part of what her soul craved, of what her mind craved, of what her
                        heart craved.
                    The heat of this tenement room! The heat to which poverty was exposed naked
                        and bound! Would not anyone be justified in doing anything—yes, anything—to escape from this fiend?
                
                
                
                    II
                    
                        ELLEN, the maid, slept across the hall from Susan, in a
                        closet so dirty that no one could have risked in it any article of clothing
                        with the least pretension to cleanness. It was no better, no worse than the
                        lodgings of more than two hundred thousand New Yorkers. Its one narrow
                        opening, beside the door, gave upon a shaft whose odors were so foul that
                        she kept the window closed, preferring heat like the inside of a steaming
                        pan to the only available "outside air." This in a
                        civilized city where hundreds of dogs with jeweled collars slept in
                        luxurious rooms on downiest beds and had servants to wait upon them! The
                        morning after Susan's coming, Ellen woke her, as they had arranged,
                        at a quarter before five. The night before, Susan had brought up from the
                        basement a large bucket of water; for she had made up her mind to take a
                        bath every day, at least until the cold weather set in and rendered such a
                        luxury impossible. With this water and what she had in her little pitcher,
                        Susan contrived to freshen herself up. She had bought a gas stove and some
                        indispensable utensils for three dollars and seventeen cents in a Fourteenth
                        Street store, a pound of cocoa for seventy cents and ten cents'
                        worth of rolls—three rolls, well baked, of first quality flour and
                        with about as good butter and other things put into the dough as one can
                        expect in bread not made at home. These purchases had reduced her cash to
                        forty-three cents—and she ought to buy without delay a  clock with an alarm attachment. And pay
                        day—Saturday—was two days away.
                    She made a cup of cocoa, drank it slowly, eating one of the
                        rolls—all in the same methodical way like a machine that continues
                        to revolve after the power has been shut off. It was then, even more than
                        during her first evening alone, even more than when she from time to time
                        startled out of troubled sleep—it was then, as she forced down her
                        lonely breakfast, that she most missed Rod. When she had finished, she
                        completed her toilet. The final glance at herself in the little mirror was
                        depressing. She looked fresh for her new surroundings and for her new class.
                        But in comparison with what she usually looked, already there was a
                        distinct, an ominous falling off. "I'm glad Rod never saw
                        me looking like this," she said aloud drearily. Taking a roll for
                        lunch, she issued forth at half-past six. The hour and three-quarters she
                        had allowed for dressing and breakfasting had been none too much. In the
                        coolness and comparative quiet she went down University Place and across
                        Washington Square under the old trees, all alive with song and breeze and
                        flashes of early morning light. She was soon in Broadway's deep
                        canyon, was drifting absently along in the stream of cross, mussy-looking
                        workers pushing southward. Her heart ached, her brain throbbed. It was
                        horrible, this loneliness; and every one of the wounds where she had severed
                        the ties with Spenser was bleeding. She was astonished to find herself
                        before the building whose upper floors were occupied by Jeffries and Jonas.
                        How had she got there? Where had she crossed Broadway?
                    "Good morning, Miss Sackville." It was Miss Hinkle, just
                        arriving. Her eyes were heavy, and there were the crisscross lines under
                        them that tell a story to the  expert in the
                        different effects of different kinds of dissipation. Miss Hinkle was showing
                        her age—and she was "no spring chicken."
                    Susan returned her greeting, gazing at her with the dazed eyes and puzzled
                        smile of an awakening sleeper.
                    "I'll show you the ropes," said Miss Hinkle, as
                        they climbed the two flights of stairs. "You'll find the
                        job dead easy. They're mighty nice people to work for, Mr. Jeffries
                        especially. Not easy fruit, of course, but nice for people that have got on.
                        You didn't sleep well?"
                    "Yes—I think so."
                    "I didn't have a chance to drop round last night. I was out
                        with one of the buyers. How do you like Mrs. Tucker?"
                    "She's very good, isn't she?"
                    "She'll never get along. She works hard, too—but
                        not for herself. In this world you have to look out for Number One. I had a
                        swell dinner last night. Lobster—I love lobster—and
                        elegant champagne—up to Murray's—such a refined
                        place—all fountains and mirrors—really quite artistic. And
                        my gentleman friend was so nice and respectful. You know, we have to go out
                        with the buyers when they ask us. It helps the house sell goods. And we have
                        to be careful not to offend them."
                    Miss Hinkle's tone in the last remark was so significant that Susan
                        looked at her—and, looking, understood.
                    "Sometimes," pursued Miss Hinkle, eyes carefully averted,
                        "sometimes a new girl goes out with an important customer and he
                        gets fresh and she kicks and complains to Mr. Jeffries—or Mr.
                        Jonas—or Mr. Ratney,  the head man.
                        They always sympathize with her—but—well, I've
                        noticed that somehow she soon loses her job."
                    "What do you do when—when a customer annoys
                        you?"
                    "I!" Miss Hinkle laughed with some embarrassment.
                        "Oh, I do the best I can." A swift glance of the cynical,
                        laughing, "fast" eyes at Susan and away. "The
                        best I can—for the house—and for myself. . . . I talk to
                        you because I know you're a lady and because I don't want
                        to see you thrown down. A woman that's living quietly at
                        home—like a lady—she can be squeamish. But out in the
                        world a woman can't afford to be—no, nor a man, neither.
                        You don't find this set down in the books, and they don't
                        preach it in the churches—leastways they didn't when I
                        used to go to church. But it's true, all the same."
                    They were a few minutes early; so Miss Hinkle continued the conversation
                        while they waited for the opening of the room where Susan would be outfitted
                        for her work. "I called you Miss Sackville," said she,
                        "but you've been married—haven't
                        you?"
                    "Yes."
                    "I can always tell—or at least I can see whether a
                        woman's had experience or not. Well, I've never been
                        regularly married, and I don't expect to, unless something pretty
                        good offers. Think I'd marry one of these rotten little
                        clerks?" Miss Hinkle answered her own question with a scornful
                        sniff. "They can hardly make a living for themselves. And a man who
                        amounts to anything, he wants a refined lady to help him on up, not a
                        working girl. Of course, there're exceptions. But as a rule a girl
                        in our position either has to stay single or marry beneath
                        her—marry some mechanic or such  like.
                        Well, I ain't so lazy, or so crazy about being supported, that
                        I'd sink to be cook and slop-carrier—and
                        worse—for a carpenter or a bricklayer. Going out with the
                        buyers—the gentlemanly ones—has spoiled my taste. I
                        can't stand a coarse man—coarse dress and hands and
                        manners. Can you?"
                    Susan turned hastily away, so that her face was hidden from Miss Hinkle.
                    "I'll bet you wasn't married to a coarse
                        man."
                    "I'd rather not talk about myself," said Susan
                        with an effort. "It's not pleasant."
                    Her manner of checking Miss Hinkle's friendly curiosity did not give
                        offense; it excited the experienced working woman's sympathy. She
                        went on:
                    "Well, I feel sorry for any woman that has to work. Of course most
                        women do—and at worse than anything in the stores and factories. As
                        between being a drudge to some dirty common laborer like most women are, and
                        working in a factory even, give me the factory. Yes, give me a job as a pot
                        slinger even, low as that is. Oh, I hate working people! I
                        love refinement. Up to Murray's last night I sat there, eating my
                        lobster and drinking my wine, and I pretended I was a lady—and, my,
                        how happy I was!"
                    The stockroom now opened. Susan, with the help of Miss Hinkle and the stock
                        keeper, dressed in one of the tight-fitting satin slips that revealed every
                        curve and line of her form, made every motion however slight, every breath
                        she drew, a gesture of sensuousness. As she looked at herself in a long
                        glass in one of the show-parlors, her face did not reflect the admiration
                        frankly displayed upon the faces of the two other women. That satin slip
                        seemed to have a moral quality, an immoral character. It made her feel
                        naked—no, as if  she were naked and
                        being peeped at through a crack or keyhole.
                    "You'll soon get used to it," Miss Hinkle assured
                        her. "And you'll learn to show off the dresses and cloaks
                        to the best advantage." She laughed her insinuating little laugh
                        again, amused, cynical, reckless. "You know, the buyers are men.
                        Gee, what awful jay things we work off on them, sometimes! They
                        can't see the dress for the figure. And you've got such a
                        refined figure, Miss Sackville—the kind I'd be crazy about
                        if I was a man. But I must say—" here she eyed herself in
                        the glass complacently—"most men prefer a figure like
                        mine. Don't they, Miss Simmons?"
                    The stock keeper shook her fat shoulders in a gesture of indifferent disdain.
                        "They take whatever's handiest—that's
                            my experience."
                    About half-past nine the first customer appeared—Mr. Gideon, it
                        happened to be. He was making the rounds of the big wholesale houses in
                        search of stock for the huge Chicago department store that paid him fifteen
                        thousand a year and expenses. He had been contemptuous of the offerings of
                        Jeffries and Jonas for the winter season, had praised with enthusiasm the
                        models of their principal rival, Icklemeier, Schwartz and Company. They were
                        undecided whether he was really thinking of deserting them or was feeling
                        for lower prices. Mr. Jeffries bustled into the room where Susan stood
                        waiting; his flat face quivered with excitement. "Gid's
                        come!" he said in a hoarse whisper. "Everybody get busy.
                        We'll try Miss Sackville on him."
                    And he himself assisted while they tricked out Susan in an afternoon costume
                        of pale gray, putting on her head a big pale gray hat with harmonizing
                        feathers. The model was offered in all colors and also in a modified  form that permitted its use for either
                        afternoon or evening. Susan had received her instructions, so when she was
                        dressed, she was ready to sweep into Gideon's presence with languid
                        majesty. Jeffries' eyes glistened as he noted her walk.
                        "She looks as if she really was a lady!" exclaimed he.
                        "I wish I could make my daughters move around on their trotters
                        like that."
                    Gideon was enthroned in an easy chair, smoking a cigar. He was a spare man of
                        perhaps forty-five, with no intention of abandoning the pretensions to youth
                        for many a year. In dress he was as spick and span as a tailor at the
                        trade's annual convention. But he had evidently been
                        "going some" for several days; the sour, worn, haggard
                        face rising above his elegantly fitting collar suggested a moth-eaten jaguar
                        that has been for weeks on short rations or none.
                    "What's the matter?" he snapped, as the door began
                        to open. "I don't like to be kept waiting."
                    In swept Susan; and Jeffries, rubbing his thick hands, said fawningly,
                        "But I think, Mr. Gideon, you'll say it was worth waiting
                        for."
                    Gideon's angry, arrogant eyes softened at first glimpse of Susan.
                        "Um!" he grunted, some such sound as the jaguar aforesaid
                        would make when the first chunk of food hurtled through the bars and landed
                        on his paws. He sat with cigar poised between his long white fingers while
                        Susan walked up and down before him, displaying the dress at all angles,
                        Jeffries expatiating upon it the while.
                    "Don't talk so damn much, Jeff!" he commanded with
                        the insolence of a customer containing possibilities of large profit.
                        "I judge for myself. I'm not a damn fool."
                    "I should say not," cried Jeffries, laughing the  merchant's laugh for a
                        customer's pleasantry. "But I can't help talking
                        about it, Gid, it's so lovely!"
                    Jeffries' shrewd eyes leaped for joy when Gideon got up from his
                        chair and, under pretense of examining the garment, investigated
                        Susan's figure. As his gentle, insinuating hands traveled over her,
                        his eyes sought hers. "Excuse me," said Jeffries.
                        "I'll see that they get the other things ready."
                        And out he went, winking at Mary Hinkle to follow him—an
                        unnecessary gesture as she was already on her way to the door.
                    Gideon understood as well as did they why they left. "I
                        don't think I've seen you before, my dear," said
                        he to Susan.
                    "I came only this morning," replied she.
                    "I like to know everybody I deal with. We must get better
                        acquainted. You've got the best figure in the business—the
                        very best."
                    "Thank you," said Susan with a grave, distant smile.
                    "Got a date for dinner tonight?" inquired he; and, assuming
                        that everything would yield precedence to him, he did not wait for a reply,
                        but went on, "Tell me your address. I'll send a cab for
                        you at seven o'clock."
                    "Thank you," said Susan, "but I can't
                        go."
                    Gideon smiled. "Oh, don't be shy. Of course you'll
                        go. Ask Jeffries. He'll tell you it's all
                        right."
                    "There are reasons why I'd rather not be seen in the
                        restaurants."
                    "That's even better. I'll come in the cab myself
                        and we'll go to a quiet place."
                    His eyes smiled insinuatingly at her. Now that she looked at him more
                        carefully he was unusually attractive for a man of his type—had
                        strength and intelligence in his features, had a suggestion of mastery, of
                             one used to obedience, in his voice. His
                        teeth were even and sound, his lips firm yet not too thin.
                    "Come," said he persuasively. "I'll not
                        eat you up—" with a gay and gracious
                        smile—"at least I'll try not to."
                    Susan remembered what Miss Hinkle had told her. She saw that she must either
                        accept the invitation or give up her position. She said:
                    "Very well," and gave him her address.
                    Back came Jeffries and Miss Hinkle carrying the first of the wraps. Gideon
                        waved them away. "You've shown 'em to me
                        before," said he. "I don't want to see
                        'em again. Give me the evening gowns."
                    Susan withdrew, soon to appear in a dress that left her arms and neck bare.
                        Gideon could not get enough of this. Jeffries kept her walking up and down
                        until she was ready to drop with weariness of the monotony, of the
                        distasteful play of Gideon's fiery glance upon her arms and
                        shoulders and throat. Gideon tried to draw her into conversation, but she
                        would—indeed could—go no further than direct answers to
                        his direct questions. "Never mind," said he to her in an
                        under-tone. "I'll cheer you up this evening. I think I
                        know how to order a dinner."
                    Her instant conquest of the difficult and valuable Gideon so elated Jeffries
                        that he piled the work on her. He used her with every important buyer who
                        came that day. The temperature was up in the high nineties, the hot moist
                        air stood stagnant as a barnyard pool; the winter models were cruelly hot
                        and heavy. All day long, with a pause of half an hour to eat her roll and
                        drink a glass of water, Susan walked up and down the show parlors weighted
                        with dresses and cloaks, furs for arctic weather. The other girls, even
                        those doing  almost nothing, were all but
                        prostrated. It was little short of intolerable, this struggle to gain the
                        "honest, self-respecting living by honest work" that there
                        was so much talk about. Toward five o'clock her nerves abruptly and
                        completely gave way, and she fainted—for the first time in her
                        life. At once the whole establishment was in an uproar. Jeffries cursed
                        himself loudly for his shortsightedness, for his overestimating her young
                        strength. "She'll look like hell this evening,"
                        he wailed, wringing his hands like a distracted peasant woman.
                        "Maybe she won't be able to go out at all."
                    She soon came round. They brought her whiskey, and afterward tea and
                        sandwiches. And with the power of quick recuperation that is the most
                        fascinating miracle of healthy youth, she not only showed no sign of her
                        breakdown but looked much better. And she felt better. We shall some day
                        understand why it is that if a severe physical blow follows upon a mental
                        blow, recovery from the physical blow is always accompanied by a relief of
                        the mental strain. Susan came out of her fit of faintness and exhaustion
                        with a different point of view—as if time had been long at work
                        softening her grief; Spenser seemed part of the present no longer, but of
                        the past—a past far more remote than yesterday.
                    Mary Hinkle sat with her as she drank the tea. "Did you make a date
                        with Gid?" inquired she. Her tone let Susan know that the question
                        had been prompted by Jeffries.
                    "He asked me to dine with him, and I said I would."
                    "Have you got a nice dress—dinner dress, I
                        mean?"
                    "The linen one I'm wearing is all. My other dress is for
                        cooler weather."
                    "Then I'll give you one out of stock—I mean
                        I'll  borrow one for you. This
                        dinner's a house affair, you know—to get Gid's
                        order. It'll be worth thousands to them."
                    "There wouldn't be anything to fit me on such short
                        notice," said Susan, casting about for an excuse for not wearing
                        borrowed finery.
                    "Why, you've got a model figure. I'll pick you out
                        a white dress—and a black and white hat. I know 'em all,
                        and I know one that'll make you look simply lovely."
                    Susan did not protest. She was profoundly indifferent to what happened to
                        her. Life seemed a show in which she had no part, and at which she sat a
                        listless spectator. A few minutes, and in puffed Jeffries, solicitous as a
                        fussy old bird with a new family.
                    "You're a lot better, ain't you?" cried
                        he, before he had looked at her. "Oh, yes, you'll be all
                        right. And you'll have a lovely time with Mr. Gideon. He's
                        a perfect gentleman—knows how to treat a lady. . . . The minute I
                        laid eyes on you I said to myself, said I, 'Jeffries,
                        she's a mascot.' And you are, my dear. You'll get
                        us the order. But you mustn't talk business with him, you
                        understand?"
                    "Yes," said Susan, wearily.
                    "He's a gentleman, you know, and it don't do to
                        mix business and social pleasures. You string him along quiet and ladylike
                        and elegant, as if there wasn't any such things as cloaks or
                        dresses in the world. He'll understand all right. . . . If you land
                        the order, my dear, I'll see that you get a nice present. A nice
                        dress—the one we're going to lend you—if he gives
                        us a slice. The dress and twenty-five in cash, if he gives us all.
                        How's that?"
                    "Thank you," said Susan. "I'll do my
                        best."
                    
                    "You'll land it. You'll land it. I feel as if we
                        had it with his O. K. on it."
                    Susan shivered. "Don't—don't count on me
                        too much," she said hesitatingly. "I'm not in
                        very good spirits, I'm sorry to say."
                    "A little pressed for money?" Jeffries hesitated, made an
                        effort, blurted out what was for him, the business man, a giddy generosity.
                        "On your way out, stop at the cashier's. He'll
                        give you this week's pay in advance." Jeffries hesitated,
                        decided against dangerous liberality. "Not ten, you understand, but
                        say six. You see, you won't have been with us a full
                        week." And he hurried away, frightened by his prodigality, by these
                        hysterical impulses that were rushing him far from the course of sound
                        business sense. "As Jones says, I'm a generous old
                        fool," he muttered. "My soft heart'll ruin me
                        yet."
                    Jeffries sent Mary Hinkle home with Susan to carry the dress and hat, to help
                        her make a toilet and to "start her off right." In the
                        hour before they left the store there was offered a typical illustration of
                        why and how "business" is able to suspend the normal moral
                        sense and to substitute for it a highly ingenious counterfeit of supreme
                        moral obligation to it. The hysterical Jeffries had infected the entire
                        personnel with his excitement, with the sense that a great battle was
                        impending and that the cause of the house, which was the cause of everyone
                        who drew pay from it, had been intrusted to the young recruit with the
                        fascinating figure and the sweet, sad face. And Susan's sensitive
                        nature was soon vibrating in response to this feeling. It terrified her that
                        she, the inexperienced, had such grave responsibility. It made her heart
                        heavy to think of probable failure, when the house had been so good  to her, had taken her in, had given her
                        unusual wages, had made it possible for her to get a start in life, had
                        intrusted to her its cause, its chance to retrieve a bad season and to
                        protect its employees instead of discharging a lot of them.
                    "Have you got long white gloves?" asked Mary Hinkle, as
                        they walked up Broadway, she carrying the dress and Susan the hat box.
                    "Only a few pairs of short ones."
                    "You must have long white gloves—and a pair of white
                        stockings."
                    "I can't afford them."
                    "Oh, Jeffries told me to ask you—and to go to work and buy
                        them if you hadn't."
                    They stopped at Wanamaker's. Susan was about to pay, when Mary
                        stopped her. "If you pay," said she, "maybe
                        you'll get your money back from the house, and maybe you
                        won't. If I pay, they'll not make a kick on giving it back
                        to me."
                    The dress Mary had selected was a simple white batiste, cut out at the neck
                        prettily, and with the elbow sleeves that were then the fashion.
                        "Your arms and throat are lovely," said Mary.
                        "And your hands are mighty nice, too—that's why
                        I'm sure you've never been a real working
                        girl—leastways, not for a long time. When you get to the restaurant
                        and draw off your gloves in a slow, careless, ladylike kind of way, and put
                        your elbows on the table—my, how he will take on!" Mary
                        looked at her with an intense but not at all malignant envy. "If
                        you don't land high, it'll be because you're a
                        fool. And you ain't that."
                    "I'm afraid I am," replied Susan. "Yes, I
                        guess I'm what's called a fool—what probably is a
                        fool."
                    "You want to look out then," warned Miss Hinkle.  "You want to go to work and get over
                        that. Beauty don't count, unless a girl's got shrewdness.
                        The streets are full of beauties sellin' out for a bare living.
                        They thought they couldn't help winning, and they got left, and the
                        plain girls who had to hustle and manage have passed them. Go to
                        Del's or Rector's or the Waldorf or the Madrid or any of
                        those high-toned places, and see the women with the swell clothes and
                        jewelry! The married ones, and the other kind, both. Are they raving tearing
                        beauties? Not often. . . . The trouble with me is I've been too
                        good-hearted and too soft about being flattered. I was too good looking, and
                        a small easy living came too easy. You—I'd say you
                        were—that you had brains but were shy about using them.
                        What's the good of having them? Might as well be a boob. Then, too,
                        you've got to go to work and look out about being too refined. The
                        refined, nice ones goes the lowest—if they get pushed—and
                        this is a pushing world. You'll get pushed just as far as
                        you'll let 'em. Take it from me. I've been down
                        the line."
                    Susan's low spirits sank lower. These disagreeable
                        truths—for observation and experience made her fear they were
                        truths—filled her with despondency. What was the matter with life?
                        As between the morality she had been taught and the practical morality of
                        this world upon which she had been cast, which was the right? How
                        "take hold"? How avert the impending disaster? What of the
                        "good" should—must—she
                        throw away? What should—must—she cling
                        to?
                    Mary Hinkle was shocked by the poor little room. "This is no place
                        for a lady!" cried she. "But it won't last
                        long—not after tonight, if you play your cards halfway
                        right."
                    
                    "I'm very well satisfied," said Susan.
                        "If I can only keep this!"
                    She felt no interest in the toilet until the dress and hat were unpacked and
                        laid out upon the bed. At sight of them her eyes became a keen and lively
                        gray—never violet for that kind of emotion—and there
                        surged up the love of finery that dwells in every normal woman—and
                        in every normal man—that is put there by a heredity dating back
                        through the ages to the very beginning of conscious life—and does
                        not leave them until life gives up the battle and prepares to vacate before
                        death. Ellen, the maid, passing the door, saw and entered to add her
                        ecstatic exclamations to the excitement. Down she ran to bring Mrs. Tucker,
                        who no sooner beheld the glory displayed upon the humble bed than she too
                        was in a turmoil. Susan dressed with the aid of three maids as interested
                        and eager as ever robed a queen for coronation. Ellen brought hot water and
                        a larger bowl. Mrs. Tucker wished to lend a highly scented toilet soap she
                        used when she put on gala attire; but Susan insisted upon her own plain
                        soap. They all helped her bathe; they helped her select the best
                        underclothes from her small store. Susan would put on her own stockings; but
                        Ellen got one foot into one of the slippers and Mrs. Tucker looked after the
                        other foot. "Ain't they lovely?" said Ellen to
                        Mrs. Tucker, as they knelt together at their task. "I never see
                        such feet. Not a lump on 'em, but like feet in a
                        picture."
                    "It takes a mighty good leg to look good in a white
                        stocking," observed Mary. "But yours is so nice and long
                        and slim that they'd stand most anything."
                    Mrs. Tucker and Ellen stood by with no interference save suggestion and
                        comment, while Mary, who at one  time worked
                        for a hairdresser, did Susan's thick dark hair. Susan would permit
                        no elaborations, much to Miss Hinkle's regret. But the three agreed
                        that she was right when the simple sweep of the vital blue-black hair was
                        finished in a loose and graceful knot at the back, and Susan's
                        small, healthily pallid face looked its loveliest, with the violet-gray eyes
                        soft and sweet and serious. Mrs. Tucker brought the hat from the bed, and
                        Susan put it on—a large black straw of a most becoming shape with
                        two pure white plumes curling round the crown and a third, not so long,
                        rising gracefully from the big buckle where the three plumes met. And now
                        came the putting on of the dress. With as much care as if they were handling
                        a rare and fragile vase, Mary and Mrs. Tucker held the dress for Susan to
                        step into it. Ellen kept her petticoat in place while the other two escorted
                        the dress up Susan's form.
                    Then the three worked together at hooking and smoothing. Susan washed her
                        hands again, refused to let Mrs. Tucker run and bring powder, produced from
                        a drawer some prepared chalk and with it safeguarded her nose against shine;
                        she tucked the powder rag into her stocking. Last of all the gloves went on
                        and a small handkerchief was thrust into the palm of the left glove.
                    "How do I look?" asked Susan.
                    "Lovely"—"Fine"—"Just
                        grand," exclaimed the three maids.
                    "I feel awfully dressed up," said she. "And
                        it's so hot!"
                    "You must go right downstairs where it's cool and you
                        won't get wilted," cried Mrs. Tucker. "Hold your
                        skirts close on the way. The steps and walls ain't none too
                        clean."
                    
                    In the bathroom downstairs there was a long mirror built into the wall, a
                        relic of the old house's long departed youth of grandeur. As the
                        tenant—Mr. Jessop—was out, Mrs. Tucker led the way into
                        it. There Susan had the first satisfactory look at herself. She knew she was
                        a pretty woman; she would have been weak-minded had she not known it. But
                        she was amazed at herself. A touch here and there, a sinuous shifting of the
                        body within the garments, and the suggestion of "dressed
                        up" vanished before the reflected eyes of her agitated assistants,
                        who did not know what had happened but only saw the results. She hardly knew
                        the tall beautiful woman of fashion gazing at her from the mirror. Could it
                        be that this was her hair?—these eyes hers—and the mouth
                        and nose—and the skin? Was this long slender figure her very own?
                        What an astounding difference clothes did make! Never before had Susan worn
                        anything nearly so fine. "This is the way I ought to look all the
                        time," thought she. "And this is the way I will look!" Only better—much better. Already her
                        true eye was seeing the defects, the chances for improvement—how
                        the hat could be re-bent and re-trimmed to adapt it to her features, how the
                        dress could be altered to make it more tasteful, more effective in subtly
                        attracting attention to her figure.
                    "How much do you suppose the dress cost, Miss Hinkle?"
                        asked Ellen—the question Mrs. Tucker had been dying to put but had
                        refrained from putting lest it should sound unrefined.
                    "It costs ninety wholesale," said Miss Hinkle.
                        "That'd mean a hundred and twenty-five—a hundred
                        and fifty, maybe—if you was to try to buy it in a department store.
                        And the hat—well, Lichtenstein'd ask fifty or sixty for it
                        and never turn a hair."
                    
                    "Gosh—ee?" exclaimed Ellen. "Did you ever
                        hear the like?"
                    "I'm not surprised," said Mrs. Tucker, who in fact
                        was flabbergasted. "Well—it's worth the money to
                        them that can afford to buy it. The good Lord put everything on earth to be
                        used, I reckon. And Miss Sackville is the build for things like that. Now
                        it'd be foolish on me, with a stomach and sitter that
                        won't let no skirt hang fit to look at."
                    The bell rang. The excitement died from Susan's face, leaving it
                        pale and cold. A wave of nausea swept through her. Ellen peeped out, Mrs.
                        Tucker and Miss Hinkle listening with anxious faces. "It's
                        him!" whispered Ellen, "and there's a taxi,
                        too."
                    It was decided that Ellen should go to the door, that as she opened it Susan
                        should come carelessly from the back room and advance along the hall. And
                        this program was carried out with the result that as Gideon said,
                        "Is Miss Sackville here?" Miss Sackville appeared before
                        his widening, wondering, admiring eyes. He was dressed in the extreme of
                        fashion and costliness in good taste; while it would have been impossible
                        for him to look distinguished, he did look what he was—a prosperous
                        business man with prospects. He came perfumed and rustling. But he felt
                        completely outclassed—until he reminded himself that for all her
                        brave show of fashionable lady she was only a model while he was a
                        fifteen-thousand-a-year man on the way to a partnership.
                    "Don't you think we might dine on the veranda at
                        Sherry's?" suggested he. "It'd be cool
                        there."
                    At sight of him she had nerved herself, had keyed herself up toward
                        recklessness. She was in for it. She would put it through. No futile
                        cowardly shrinking  and whimpering! Why not try
                        to get whatever pleasure there was a chance for?
                        But—Sherry's—was it safe? Yes, almost any of the
                        Fifth Avenue places—except the Waldorf, possibly—was safe
                        enough. The circuit of Spenser and his friends lay in the more Bohemian
                        Broadway district. He had taken her to Sherry's only once, to see
                        as part of a New York education the Sunday night crowd of fashionable
                        people. "If you like," said she.
                    Gideon beamed. He would be able to show off his prize! As they drove away
                        Susan glanced at the front parlor windows, saw the curtains agitated, felt
                        the three friendly, excited faces palpitating. She leaned from the cab
                        window, waved her hand, smiled. The three faces instantly appeared and
                        immediately hid again lest Gideon should see.
                    But Gideon was too busy planning conversation. He knew Miss Sackville was
                        "as common as the rest of 'em—and an old hand at
                        the business, no doubt." But he simply could not abruptly break
                        through the barrier; he must squirm through gradually.
                        "That's a swell outfit you've got on,"
                        he began.
                    "Yes," replied Susan with her usual candor. "Miss
                        Hinkle borrowed it out of the stock for me to wear."
                    Gideon was confused. He knew how she had got the hat and dress, but he
                        expected her to make a pretense. He couldn't understand her not
                        doing it. Such candor—any kind of candor—wasn't
                        in the game of men and women as women had played it in his experience. The
                        women—all sorts of women—lied and faked at their business
                        just as men did in the business of buying and selling goods. And her
                        voice—and her way of speaking—they made him feel more than
                        ever out of his class.  He must get something
                        to drink as soon as it could be served; that would put him at his ease.
                        Yes—a drink—that would set him up again. And a drink for
                        her—that would bring her down from this queer new kind of high
                        horse. "I guess she must be a top notcher—the real thing,
                        come down in the world—and not out of the near silks. But
                        she'll be all right after a drink. One drink of liquor makes the
                        whole world kin." That last thought reminded him of his own
                        cleverness and he attacked the situation afresh. But the conversation as
                        they drove up the avenue was on the whole constrained and
                        intermittent—chiefly about the weather. Susan was
                        observing—and feeling—and enjoying. Up bubbled her young
                        spirits perpetually renewed by her healthy, vital youth of body. She was
                        seeing her beloved City of the Sun again. As they turned out of the avenue
                        for Sherry's main entrance Susan realized that she was in
                        Forty-fourth Street. The street where she and Spenser had
                        lived!—had lived only yesterday. No—not
                        yesterday—impossible! Her eyes closed and she leaned back in the
                        cab.
                    Gideon was waiting to help her alight. He saw that something was wrong; it
                        stood out obviously in her ghastly face. He feared the carriage men round
                        the entrance would "catch on" to the fact that he was
                        escorting a girl so unused to swell surroundings that she was ready to faint
                        with fright. "Don't be foolish," he said sharply.
                        Susan revived herself, descended, and with head bent low and trembling body
                        entered the restaurant. In the agitation of getting a table and settling at
                        it Gideon forgot for the moment her sickly pallor.
                    He began to order at once, not consulting her—for he prided himself
                        on his knowledge of cookery  and assumed that
                        she knew nothing about it. "Have a cocktail?" asked he.
                        "Yes, of course you will. You need it bad and you need it
                        quick."
                    She said she preferred sherry. She had intended to drink nothing, but she
                        must have aid in conquering her faintness and overwhelming depression.
                        Gideon took a dry martini; ordered a second for himself when the first came,
                        and had them both down before she finished her sherry.
                        "I've ordered champagne," said he. "I
                        suppose you like sweet champagne. Most ladies do, but I can't stand
                        seeing it served even."
                    "No—I like it very dry," said Susan.
                    Gideon glinted his eyes gayly at her, showed his white jaguar teeth.
                        "So you're acquainted with fizz, are you?" He was
                        feeling his absurd notion of inequality in her favor dissipate as the fumes
                        of the cocktails rose straight and strong from his empty stomach to his
                        brain. "Do you know, I've a sort of feeling that
                        we're going to like each other a lot. I think we make a handsome
                        couple—eh—what's your first name?"
                    "Lorna."
                    "Lorna, then. My name's Ed, but everybody calls me
                        Gid."
                    As soon as the melon was served, he ordered the champagne opened.
                        "To our better acquaintance," said he, lifting his glass
                        toward her.
                    "Thank you," said she, in a suffocated voice, touching her
                        glass to her lips.
                    He was too polite to speak, even in banter, of what he thought was the real
                        cause of her politeness and silence. But he must end this state of
                        overwhelmedness at grand surroundings. Said he:
                    "You're kind o' shy, aren't you, Lorna?
                        Or is that your game?"
                    
                    "I don't know. You've had a very interesting life,
                        haven't you? Won't you tell me about it?"
                    "Oh—just ordinary," replied he, with a proper show
                        of modesty. And straightway, as Susan had hoped, he launched into a minute
                        account of himself—the familiar story of the energetic, aggressive
                        man twisting and kicking his way up from two or three dollars a week. Susan
                        seemed interested, but her mind refused to occupy itself with a narrative so
                        commonplace. After Rod and his friends this boastful business man was dull
                        and tedious. Whenever he laughed at an account of his superior
                        craft—how he had bluffed this man, how he had euchered that
                        one—she smiled. And so in one more case the common masculine
                        delusion that women listen to them on the subject of themselves, with
                        interest and admiration as profound as their own, was not impaired.
                    "But," he wound up, "I've stayed plain Ed
                        Gideon. I never have let prosperity swell my head. And
                        anyone that knows me'll tell you I'm a regular fool for
                        generosity with those that come at me right. . . . I've always been
                        a favorite with the ladies."
                    As he was pausing for comment from her, she said, "I can believe
                        it." The word "generosity" kept echoing in her
                        mind. Generosity—generosity. How much talk there was about it!
                        Everyone was forever praising himself for his generosity, was reciting acts
                        of the most obvious selfishness in proof. Was there any such thing in the
                        whole world as real generosity?
                    "They like a generous man," pursued Gid.
                        "I'm tight in business—I can see a dollar as far
                        as the next man and chase it as hard and grab it as tight. But when it comes
                        to the ladies, why, I'm open-handed. If they treat me right, I
                        treat them right." Then, fearing that he had tactlessly raised a
                        doubt of his invincibility,  he hastily added,
                        "But they always do treat me right."
                    While he had been talking on and on, Susan had been appealing to the
                        champagne to help her quiet her aching heart. She resolutely set her
                        thoughts to wandering among the couples at the other tables in that subdued
                        softening light—the beautifully dressed women listening to their
                        male companions with close attention—were they too being bored by
                        such trash by way of talk? Were they too simply listening because it is the
                        man who pays, because it is the man who must be conciliated and put in a
                        good humor with himself, if dinners and dresses and jewels are to be bought?
                        That tenement attic—that hot moist
                        workroom—poverty—privation—"honest
                        work's" dread rewards—
                    "Now, what kind of a man would you say I was?" Gideon was
                        inquiring.
                    "How do you mean?" replied Susan, with the dexterity at
                        vagueness that habitually self-veiling people acquire as an instinct.
                    "Why, as a man. How do I compare with the other men you've
                        known?" And he "shot" his cuffs with a gesture of
                        careless elegance that his cuff links might assist in the picture of the
                        "swell dresser" he felt he was posing.
                    "Oh—you—you're—very
                        different."
                    "I am different," swelled Gideon.
                        "You see, it's this way—" And he was off
                        again into another eulogy of himself; it carried them through the dinner and
                        two quarts of champagne. He was much annoyed that she did not take advantage
                        of the pointed opportunity he gave her to note the total of the bill; he was
                        even uncertain whether she had noted that he gave the waiter a dollar. He
                        rustled and snapped it before laying it upon the tray, but her eyes looked
                        vague.
                    
                    "Well," said he, after a comfortable pull at an
                        expensive-looking cigar, "sixteen seventy-five is quite a lively
                        little peel-off for a dinner for only two. But it was worth it,
                        don't you think?"
                    "It was a splendid dinner," said Susan truthfully.
                    Gideon beamed in intoxicated good humor. "I knew you'd like
                        it. Nothing pleases me better than to take a nice girl who isn't as
                        well off as I am out and blow her off to a crackerjack dinner. Now, you may
                        have thought a dollar was too much to tip the waiter?"
                    "A dollar is—a dollar, isn't it?" said
                        Susan.
                    Gideon laughed. "I used to think so. And most men wouldn't
                        give that much to a waiter. But I feel sorry for poor devils who
                        don't happen to be as lucky or as brainy as I am. What do you say
                        to a turn in the Park? We'll take a hansom, and kind of jog along.
                        And we'll stop at the Casino and at Gabe's for a
                        drink."
                    "I have to get up so early—" began Susan.
                    "Oh, that's all right." He slowly winked at her.
                        "You'll not have to bump the bumps for being late
                        tomorrow—if you treat me right."
                    He carried his liquor easily. Only in his eyes and in his ever more slippery
                        smile that would slide about his face did he show that he had been drinking.
                        He helped her into a hansom with a flourish and, overruling her protests,
                        bade the driver go to the Casino. Once under way she was glad; her hot skin
                        and her weary heart were grateful for the air blowing down the avenue from
                        the Park's expanse of green. When Gideon attempted to put his arm
                        around her, she moved close into the corner and went on talking so calmly
                        about calm subjects that he did not insist. But when he had tossed down a
                        drink of whiskey at the Casino and they 
                        resumed the drive along the moonlit, shady roads, he tried again.
                    "Please," said she, "don't spoil a
                        delightful evening."
                    "Now look here, my dear—haven't I treated you
                        right?"
                    "Indeed you have, Mr. Gideon."
                    "Oh, don't be so damned formal. Forget the difference
                        between our positions. Tommorrow I'm going to place a big order
                        with your house, if you treat me right. I'm dead stuck on
                        you—and that's a God's fact. You've
                        taken me clean off my feet. I'm thinking of doing a lot for
                        you."
                    Susan was silent.
                    "What do you say to throwing up your job and coming to Chicago with
                        me? How much do you get?"
                    "Ten."
                    "Why, you can't live on
                        that."
                    "I've lived on less—much less."
                    "Do you like it?"
                    "Naturally not."
                    "You want to get on—don't you?"
                    "I must."
                    "You're down in the heart about something. Love?"
                        Susan was silent.
                    "Cut love out. Cut it out, my dear. That ain't the way to
                        get on. Love's a good consolation prize, if you ain't
                        going to get anywhere, and know you ain't. And it's a good
                        first prize after you've arrived and can afford the luxuries of
                        life. But for a man—or a woman—that's pushing up,
                        it's sheer ruination! Cut it out!"
                    "I am cutting it out," said Susan. "But that takes
                        time."
                    "Not if you've got sense. The way to cut anything out
                        is—cut it out!—a quick slash—just cut. If you  make a dozen little slashes, each of them
                        hurts as much as the one big slash—and the dozen hurt twelve times
                        as much—bleed twelve times as much—put off the cure a lot
                        more than twelve times as long."
                    He had Susan's attention for the first time.
                    "Do you know why women don't get on?"
                    "Tell me," said she. "That's what I want
                        to hear."
                    "Because they don't play the game under the rules. Now,
                        what does a man do? Why, he stakes everything he's
                        got—does whatever's necessary, don't stop at nothing to help him get there. How is it with women? Some
                        try to be virtuous—when their bodies are their best assets. God! I
                        wish I'd 'a' had your looks and your advantages
                        as a woman to help me. I'd be a millionaire this minute, with a
                        house facing this Park and a yacht and all the rest of it. A woman
                        that's squeamish about her virtue can't hope to
                        win—unless she's in a position to make a good marriage. As
                        for the loose ones, they are as big fools as the virtuous ones. The virtuous
                        ones lock away their best asset; the loose ones throw it away. Neither one
                            use it. Do you follow me?"
                    "I think so. Susan was listening with a mind made abnormally acute
                        by the champagne she had freely drunk. The coarse bluntness and directness
                        of the man did not offend her. It made what he said the more effective,
                        producing a rude arresting effect upon her nerves. It made the man himself
                        seem more of a person. Susan was beginning to have a kind of respect for
                        him, to change her first opinion that he was merely a vulgar, pushing
                        commonplace.
                    "Never thought of that before?"
                    "Yes—I've thought of it. But—"
                        She paused.
                    "But—what?"
                    "Oh, nothing."
                    
                    "Never mind. Some womanish heart nonsense, I suppose. Do you see the
                        application of what I've said to you and me?"
                    "Go on." She was leaning forward, her elbows on the closed
                        doors of the hansom, her eyes gazing dreamily into the moonlit dimness of
                        the cool woods through which they were driving.
                    "You don't want to stick at ten per?"
                    "No."
                    "It'll be less in a little while. Models don't
                        last. The work's too hard."
                    "I can see that."
                    "And anyhow it means tenement house."
                    "Yes. Tenement house."
                    "Well—what then? What's your plan?"
                    "I haven't any."
                    "Haven't a plan—yet want to get on! Is that good
                        sense? Did ever anybody get anywhere without a plan?"
                    "I'm willing to work. I'm going to work. I am working."
                    "Work, of course. Nobody can keep alive without working. You might
                        as well say you're going to breathe and eat—Work
                        don't amount to anything, for getting on. It's the kind of
                        work—working in a certain direction—working with a
                        plan."
                    "I've got a plan. But I can't begin at it just
                        yet."
                    "Will it take money?"
                    "Some."
                    "Have you got it?"
                    "No," replied Susan. "I'll have to get
                        it."
                    "As an honest working girl?" said he with good-humored
                        irony.
                    
                    Susan laughed. "It does sound ridiculous, doesn't
                        it?" said she.
                    "Here's another thing that maybe you haven't
                        counted in. Looking as you do, do you suppose men that run
                        things'll let you get past without paying toll? Not on your life,
                        my dear. If you was ugly, you might after several years get twenty or
                        twenty-five by working hard—unless you lost your figure first. But
                        the men won't let a good looker rise that way. Do you follow
                        me?"
                    "Yes."
                    "I'm not talking theory. I'm talking life. Take
                        you and me for example. I can help you—help you a lot. In fact I
                        can put you on your feet. And I'm willing. If you was a man and I
                        liked you and wanted to help you, I'd make you help me, too.
                        I'd make you do a lot of things for me—maybe some of
                        'em not so very nice—maybe some of 'em downright
                        dirty. And you'd do 'em, as all young fellows, struggling
                        up, have to. But you're a woman. So I'm willing to make
                        easier terms. But I can't help you with you not showing any
                        appreciation. That wouldn't be good business—would
                        it?—to get no return but, 'Oh, thank you so much, Mr.
                        Gideon. So sweet of you. I'll remember you in my prayers.'
                        Would that be sensible?"
                    "No," said Susan.
                    "Well, then! If I do you a good turn, you've got to do me a
                        good turn—not one that I don't want done, but one I do
                        want done. Ain't I right? Do you follow me?"
                    "I follow you."
                    Some vague accent in Susan's voice made him feel dissatisfied with
                        her response. "I hope you do," he said sharply.
                        "What I'm saying is dresses on your  back and dollars in your pocket—and getting on in the
                        world—if you work it right."
                    "Getting on in the world," said Susan, pensively.
                    "I suppose that's a sneer."
                    "Oh, no. I was only thinking."
                    "About love being all a woman needs to make her happy, I
                        suppose?"
                    "No. Love is—Well, it isn't
                        happiness."
                    "Because you let it run you, instead of you running it.
                        Eh?"
                    "Perhaps."
                    "Sure! Now, let me tell you, Lorna dear. Comfort and luxury, money
                        in bank, property, a good solid position—that's the foundation. Build on that
                        and you'll build solid. Build on love and sentiment and
                        you're building upside down. You're putting the
                        gingerbread where the rock ought to be. Follow me?"
                    "I see what you mean."
                    He tried to find her hand. "What do you say?"
                    "I'll think of it."
                    "Well, think quick, my dear. Opportunity doesn't wait round
                        in anybody's outside office. . . Maybe you don't trust
                        me—don't think I'll deliver the
                        goods?"
                    "No. I think you're honest."
                    "You're right I am. I do what I say I'll do.
                        That's why I've got on. That's why I'll
                        keep on getting on. Let's drive to a hotel."
                    She turned her head and looked at him for the first time since he bean his
                        discourse on making one's way in the world. Her look was calm,
                        inquiring—would have been chilling to a man of
                        sensibility—that is, of sensibility toward an unconquered
                        woman.
                    "I want to give your people that order, and I want to help
                        you."
                    
                    "I want them to get the order. I don't care about the
                        rest," she replied dully.
                    "Put it any way you like."
                    Again he tried to embrace her. She resisted firmly. "Wait,"
                        said she. "Let me think."
                    They drove the rest of the way to the upper end of the Park in silence.
                    He ordered the driver to turn. He said to her:
                    "Well, do you get the sack or does the house get the
                        order?"
                    She was silent.
                    "Shall I drive you home or shall we stop at Gabe's for a
                        drink?"
                    "Could I have champagne?" said she.
                    "Anything you like if you choose right."
                    "I haven't any choice," said she.
                    He laughed, put his arm around her, kissed her unresponsive but unresisting
                        lips. "You're right, you haven't," said
                        he. "It's a fine sign that you have the sense to see it.
                        Oh, you'll get on. You don't let trifles stand in your
                        way."
                
                
                
                    III
                    
                        AT the lunch hour the next day Mary Hinkle knocked at the
                        garret in Clinton Place. Getting no answer, she opened the door. At the
                        table close to the window was Susan in a nightgown, her hair in disorder as
                        if she had begun to arrange it and had stopped halfway. Her eyes turned
                        listlessly in Mary's direction—dull eyes, gray, heavily
                        circled.
                    "You didn't answer, Miss Sackville. So I thought
                        I'd come in and leave a note," explained Mary. Her glance
                        was avoiding Susan's.
                    "Come for the dress and hat?" said Susan. "There
                        they are." And she indicated the undisturbed bed whereon hat and
                        dress were carelessly flung.
                    "My, but it's hot in this room!" exclaimed Mary.
                        "You must move up to my place. There's a room and bath
                        vacant—only seven per."
                    Susan seemed not to hear. She was looking dully at her hands upon the table
                        before her.
                    "Mr. Jeffries sent me to ask you how you were. He was worried
                        because you didn't come." With a change of voice,
                        "Mr. Gideon telephoned down the order a while ago. Mr. Jeffries
                        says you are to keep the dress and hat."
                    "No," said Susan. "Take them away with
                        you."
                    "Arent't you coming down this afternoon?"
                    "No," replied Susan. "I've
                        quit."
                    "Quit?" cried Miss Hinkle. Her expression gradually shifted
                        from astonishment to pleased understanding. "Oh, I see!
                        You've got something better."
                    
                    "No. But I'll find something."
                    Mary studied the situation, using Susan's expression-less face as a
                        guide. After a time she seemed to get from it a clew. With the air of
                        friendly experience bent on aiding helpless inexperience she pushed aside
                        the dress and made room for herself on the bed. "Don't be
                        a fool, Miss Sackville," said she. "If you don't
                        like that sort of thing—you know what I mean—why, you can
                        live six months—maybe a year—on the reputation of what
                        you've done and their hope that you'll weaken down and do
                        it again. That'll give you time to look round and find something
                        else. For pity's sake, don't turn yourself loose without a
                        job. You got your place so easy that you think you can get one any old time.
                        There's where you're wrong. Believe me, you played in
                        luck—and luck don't come round often. I know what
                        I'm talking about. So I say, don't be a
                        fool!"
                    "I am a fool," said Susan.
                    "Well—get over it. And don't waste any time about
                        it, either."
                    "I can't go back," said Susan stolidly.
                        "I can't face them."
                    "Face who?" cried Mary. "Business is business.
                        Everybody understands that. All the people down there are crazy about you
                        now. You got the house a hundred-thousand-dollar order. You don't
                            suppose anybody in business bothers about how an
                        order's got—do you?"
                    "It's the way I feel—not the way
                            they feel."
                    "As for the women down there—of course, there's
                        some that pretend they won't do that sort of thing, Look at
                        'em—at their faces and figures—and
                        you'll see why they don't. Of course a girl keeps straight
                        when there's nothing in not being straight—leastways,
                        unless  she's a fool. She knows that
                        if the best she can do is marry a fellow of her own class, why
                        she'd only get left if she played any tricks with them cheap skates
                        that have to get married or go without because they're too poor to
                        pay for anything—and by marrying can get that and a cook and a
                        washwoman and mender besides—and maybe, too, somebody who can go
                        out and work if they're laid up sick. But if a girl sees a chance
                        to get on— Don't be a fool, Miss Sackville."
                    Susan listened with a smile that barely disturbed the stolid calm of her
                        features. "I'm not going back," she said.
                    Mary Hinkle was silenced by the quiet finality of her voice. Studying that
                        delicate face, she felt, behind its pallid impassiveness, behind the refusal
                        to return, a reason she could not comprehend. She dimly realized that she
                        would respect it if she could understand it; for she suspected it had its
                        origin somewhere in Susan's "refined ladylike
                        nature." She knew that once in a while among the women she was
                        acquainted with there did happen one who preferred death in any form of
                        misery to leading a lax life—and indisputable facts had convinced
                        her that not always were these women "just stupid ignorant
                        fools." She herself possessed no such refinement of nerves or of
                        whatever it was. She had been brought up in a loose family and in a loose
                        neighborhood. She was in the habit of making all sorts of pretenses, because
                        that was the custom, while being candid about such matters was regarded as
                        bad form. She was not fooled by these pretenses in other girls, though they
                        often did fool each other. In Susan, she instinctively felt, it was not
                        pretense. It was something or other else—it was a dangerous
                        reality. She liked Susan; in her intelligence and physical charm were the
                             possibilities of getting far up in the
                        world; it seemed a pity that she was thus handicapped. Still, perhaps Susan
                        would stumble upon some worth while man who, attempting to possess her
                        without marriage and failing, would pay the heavy price. There was always
                        that chance—a small chance, smaller even than finding by loose
                        living a worth while man who would marry you because you happened exactly to
                        suit him—to give him enough only to make him feel that he wanted
                        more. Still, Susan was unusually attractive, and luck sometimes did come a
                        poor person's way—sometimes.
                    "I'm overdue back," said Mary. "You want
                        me to tell 'em that?"
                    "Yes."
                    "You'll have hard work finding a job at anything like as
                        much as ten per. I've got two trades, and I couldn't at
                        either one."
                    "I don't expect to find it."
                    "Then what are you going to do?"
                    "Take what I can get—until I've been made hard
                        enough—or strong enough—or whatever it is—to stop
                        being a fool."
                    This indication of latent good sense relieved Miss Hinkle.
                        "I'll tell 'em you may be down tomorrow. Think it
                        over for another day."
                    Susan shook her head. "They'll have to get somebody
                        else." And, as Miss Hinkle reached the threshold, "Wait
                        till I do the dress up. You'll take it for me?"
                    "Why send the things back?" urged Mary. "They
                        belong to you. God knows you earned 'em."
                    Susan, standing now, looked down at the finery. "So I did.
                        I'll keep them," said she. "They'd pawn
                        for something."
                    "With your looks they'd wear for a heap more. But  keep 'em, anyhow. And I'll
                        not tell Jeffries you've quit. It'll do no harm to hold
                        your job open a day or so."
                    "As you like," said Susan, to end the discussion.
                        "But I have quit."
                    "No matter. After you've had something to eat,
                        you'll feel different."
                    And Miss Hinkle nodded brightly and departed. Susan resumed her seat at the
                        bare wobbly little table, resumed her listless attitude. She did not move
                        until Ellen came in, holding out a note and saying, "A boy from
                        your store brung this—here."
                    "Thank you," said Susan, taking the note. In it she found a
                        twenty-dollar bill and a five. On the sheet of paper round it was scrawled: 
                            
                                
                                    Take the day off. Here's your commission.
                                        We'll raise your pay in a few weeks,
                                    
                                        L. L. J.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    So Mary Hinkle had told them either that she was quitting or that she was
                        thinking of quitting, and they wished her to stay, had used the means they
                        believed she could not resist. In a dreary way this amused her. As if she
                        cared whether or not life was kept in this worthless body of hers, in her
                        tired heart, in her disgusted mind! Then she dropped back into
                        listless-ness. When she was aroused again it was by Gideon, completely
                        filling the small doorway. "Hello, my dear!" cried he
                        cheerfully. "Mind my smoking?"
                    Susan slowly turned her head toward him, surveyed him with an expression but
                        one removed from the blank look she would have had if there had been no one
                        before her.
                    
                    "I'm feeling fine today," pursued Gideon,
                        advancing a step and so bringing himself about halfway to the table.
                        "Had a couple of pick-me-ups and a fat breakfast. How are
                        you?"
                    "I'm always well."
                    "Thought you seemed a little seedy." His shrewd sensual
                        eyes were exploring the openings in her night-dress.
                        "You'll be mighty glad to get out of this hole. Gosh!
                        It's hot. Don't see how you stand it. I'm a
                        law-abiding citizen but I must say I'd turn criminal before
                        I'd put up with this."
                    In the underworld from which Gideon had sprung—the underworld where
                        welters the overwhelming mass of the human race—there are three
                        main types. There are the hopeless and spiritless—the
                        mass—who welter passively on, breeding and dying. There are the
                        spirited who also possess both shrewdness and calculation; they push upward
                        by hook and by crook, always mindful of the futility of the struggle of the
                        petty criminal of the slums against the police and the law; they arrive and
                        found the aristocracies of the future. The third is the criminal class. It
                        is also made up of the spirited—but the spirited who, having little
                        shrewdness and no calculation—that is, no ability to foresee and
                        measure consequences—wage clumsy war upon society and pay the
                        penalty of their fatuity in lives of wretchedness even more wretched than
                        the common lot. Gideon belonged to the second class—the class that
                        pushes upward with-out getting into jail; he was a fair representative of
                        this type, neither its best nor its worst, but about midway of its range
                        between arrogant, all-dominating plutocrat and shystering merchant or lawyer
                        or politician who barely escapes the criminal class.
                    "You don't ask me to sit down, dearie," he went on
                             facetiously. "But I'm
                        not so mad that I won't do it."
                    He took the seat Miss Hinkle had cleared on the bed. His glance wandered
                        disgustedly from object to object in the crowded yet bare attic. He caught a
                        whiff of the odor from across the hall—from the fresh-air
                        shaft—and hastily gave several puffs at his cigar to saturate his
                        surroundings with its perfume. Susan acted as if she were alone in the room.
                        She had not even drawn together her nightgown.
                    "I phoned your store about you," resumed Gideon.
                        "They said you hadn't showed up—wouldn't
                        till tomorrow. So I came round here and your landlady sent me up. I want to
                        take you for a drive this afternoon. We can dine up to Claremont or farther,
                        if you like."
                    "No, thanks," said Susan. "I can't
                        go."
                    "Upty-tupty!" cried Gideon. "What's the
                        lady so sour about?"
                    "Then why won't you go?"
                    "I can't."
                    "But we'll have a chance to talk over what I'm
                        going to do for you."
                    "You've kept your word," said Susan.
                    "That was only part. Besides, I'd have given your house the
                        order, anyhow."
                    Susan's eyes suddenly lighted up. "You would?" she
                        cried.
                    "Well—a part of it. Not so much, of course. But I never let
                        pleasure interfere with business. Nobody that does ever gets very
                        far."
                    Her expression made him hasten to explain—without being conscious
                        why. "I said—part of the order, my dear.
                        They owe to you about half of what they'll make  off me. . . . What's that money on
                        the table? Your commission?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Twenty-five? Um!" Gideon laughed. "Well, I
                        suppose it's as generous as I'd be, in the same
                        circumstances. Encourage your employees, but don't swell-head
                        'em—that's the good rule. I've seen many
                        a promising young chap ruined by a raise of pay. . . . Now, about you and
                        me." Gideon took a roll of bills from his trousers pocket, counted
                        off five twenties, tossed them on the table. "There!"
                    One of the bills in falling touched Susan's hand. She jerked the
                        hand away as if the bill had been afire. She took all five of them, folded
                        them, held them out to him. "The house has paid me," said
                        she.
                    "That's honest," said he, nodding approvingly.
                        "I like it. But in your case it don't apply."
                    These two, thus facing a practical situation, revealed an important,
                        overlooked truth about human morals. Humanity divides broadly into three
                        classes: the arrived; those who will never arrive and will never try; those
                        in a state of flux, attempting and either failing or succeeding. The arrived
                        and the inert together preach and to a certain extent practice an idealistic
                        system of morality that interferes with them in no way. It does not
                        interfere with the arrived because they have not interfere with the inert,
                        but rather helps them to bear their lot by giving them a cheering notion
                        that their insignificance is due to their goodness. This idealistic system
                        receives the homage of lip service from the third and struggling section of
                        mankind, but no more, for in practice it would hamper them at every turn in
                        their efforts to fight their way up. Susan was,  at that stage of her career, a candidate for membership in the struggling
                        class. Her heart was set firmly against the unwritten, unspoken, even
                        unwhispered code of practical morality which dominates the struggling class.
                        But life had at least taught her the folly of intolerance. So when Gideon
                        talked in terms of that practical morality, she listened without offense;
                        and she talked to him in terms of it because to talk the idealistic morality
                        in which she had been bred and before which she bowed the knee in sincere
                        belief would have been simply to excite his laughter at her innocence and
                        his contempt for her folly.
                    "I feel that I've been paid," said she.
                        "I did it for the house—because I owed it to
                        them."
                    "Only for the house?" said he with insinuating tenderness.
                        He took and pressed the fingers extended with the money in them.
                    "Only for the house," she repeated, a hard note in her
                        voice. And her fingers slipped away, leaving the money in his hand.
                        "At least, I suppose it must have been for the house," she
                        added, reflectively, talking to herself aloud. "Why did I do it? I
                        don't know. I don't know. They say one always has a reason
                        for what one does. But I often can't find any reason for things I
                        do—that, for instance. I simply did it because it seemed to me not
                        to matter much what I did with myself, and they wanted the
                        order so badly." Then she happened to become conscious of his
                        presence and to see a look of uneasiness, self-complacence, as if he were
                        thinking that he quite understood this puzzle. She disconcerted him with
                        what vain men call a cruel snub. "But whatever the reason, it
                        certainly couldn't have been you," said she.
                    "Now, look here, Lorna," protested Gideon, the beginnings
                             of anger in his tone.
                        "That's not the way to talk if you want to get
                        on."
                    She eyed him with an expression which would have raised a suspicion that he
                        was repulsive in a man less self-confident, less indifferent to what the
                        human beings he used for pleasure or profit thought of him.
                    "To say nothing of what I can do for you, there's the
                        matter of future orders. I order twice a year—in big lots
                        always."
                    "I've quit down there."
                    "Oh! Somebody else has given you something good—eh? That's why you're cocky."
                    "No."
                    "Then why've you quit?"
                    "I wish you could tell me. I don't understand.
                        But—I've done it."
                    Gideon puzzled with this a moment, decided that it was beyond him and
                        unimportant, anyhow. He blew out a cloud of smoke, stretched his legs and
                        took up the main subject. "I was about to say, I've got a
                        place for you. I'd like to take you to Chicago, but
                        there's a Mrs. G.—as dear, sweet, good a soul as ever
                        lived—just what a man wants at home with the children and to make
                        things respectable. I wouldn't grieve her for worlds. But I
                        can't live without a little fun—and Mrs. G. is a bit slow
                        for me. . . . Still, it's no use talking about having you out
                        there. She ought to be able to understand that an active man needs two
                        women. One for the quiet side of his nature, the other for the lively side.
                        Sometimes I think she—like a lot of
                        wives—wouldn't object if it wasn't that she was
                        afraid the other lady would get me away altogether and she'd be
                        left stranded."
                    "Naturally," said Susan.
                    
                    "Not at all!" cried he. "Don't you get
                        any such notion in that lovely little head of yours, my dear. You women
                        don't understand honor—a man's sense of
                        honor."
                    "Naturally," repeated Susan.
                    He gave a glance of short disapproval. Her voice was not to his liking.
                        "Let's drop Mrs. G. out of this," said he.
                        "As I was saying, I've arranged for you to take a place
                        here—easy work—something to occupy you—and
                        I'll foot the bills over and above—"
                    He stopped short or, rather, was stopped by the peculiar smile Susan had
                        turned upon him. Before it he slowly reddened, and his eyes reluctantly
                        shifted. He had roused her from listlessness, from indifference. The poisons
                        in her blood were burned up by the fresh, swiftly flowing currents set in
                        motion by his words, by the helpfulness of his expression, of his presence.
                        She became again the intensely healthy, therefore intensely alive, therefore
                        energetic and undaunted Susan Lenox, who, when still a child, had not
                        hesitated to fly from home, from everyone she knew, into an unknown
                        world.
                    "What are you smiling at me that way for?" demanded he in a
                        tone of extreme irritation.
                    "So you look on me as your mistress?" And never in all her
                        life had her eyes been so gray—the gray of cruelest irony.
                    "Now what's the use discussing those things? You know the
                        world. You're a sensible woman."
                    Susan made closer and more secure the large loose coil of her hair, rose and
                        leaned against the table. "You don't understand. You
                        couldn't. I'm not one of those respectable women, like
                        your Mrs. G., who belong to men. And I'm not one of the other kind
                        who also throw  in their souls with their
                        bodies for good measure. Do you think you had me?" She laughed with maddening gentle mockery, went on:
                        "I don't hate you. I don't despise you even. You
                        mean well. But the sight of you makes me sick. It makes me feel as I do when
                        I think of a dirty tenement I used to have to live in, and of the things
                        that I used to have to let crawl over me. So I want to forget you as soon as
                        I can—and that will be soon after you get out of my
                        sight."
                    Her blazing eyes startled him. Her voice, not lifted above its usual quiet
                        tones, enraged him. "You—you!" he cried.
                        "You must be crazy, to talk to me like
                        that!"
                    She nodded. "Yes—crazy," said she with the same
                        quiet intensity. "For I know what kind of a beast you
                        are—a clean, good-natured beast, but still a beast. And how could
                        you understand?"
                    He had got upon his feet. He looked as if he were going to strike her.
                    She made a slight gesture toward the door. He felt at a hopeless disadvantage
                        with her—with this woman who did not raise her voice, did not need
                        to raise it to express the uttermost of any passion. His jagged teeth
                        gleamed through his mustache; his shrewd little eyes snapped like an angry
                        rat's. He fumbled about through the steam of his insane rage for
                        adequate insults—in vain. He rushed from the room and bolted
                        downstairs.
                    Within an hour Susan was out, looking for work. There could be no turning
                        back now. Until she went with Gideon it had been as if her dead were still
                        unburied and in the house. Now—
                    Never again could she even indulge in dreams of going to Rod. That part of
                        her life was finished with all the finality of the closed grave.
                        Grief—yes. But  the same sort of grief
                        as when a loved one, after a long and painful illness, finds relief in
                        death. Her love for Rod had been stricken of a mortal illness the night of
                        their arrival in New York. After lingering for a year between life and
                        death, after a long death agony, it had expired. The end came—these
                        matters of the exact moment of inevitable events are unimportant but have a
                        certain melancholy interest—the end came when she made choice where
                        there was no choice, in the cab with Gideon.
                    For better or for worse she was free. She was ready to begin her career.
                
                
                
                    IV
                    
                        AFTER a few days, when she was viewing her situation in a
                        calmer, more normal mood with the practical feminine eye, she regretted that
                        she had refused Gideon's money. She was proud of that within
                        herself which had impelled and compelled her to refuse it; but she wished
                        she had it. Taking it, she felt, would have added nothing to her humiliation
                        in her own sight; and for what he thought of her, one way or the other, she
                        cared not a pin. It is one of the familiar curiosities of human
                        inconsistency which is at bottom so completely consistent, that she did not
                        regret having refused his far more valuable offer to aid her.
                    She did not regret even during those few next days of disheartening search
                        for work. We often read how purpose can be so powerful that it compels. No
                        doubt if Susan's purpose had been to get temporary
                        relief—or, perhaps, had it been to get permanent relief by weaving
                        a sex spell—she would in that desperate mood have been able to
                        compel. Unfortunately she was not seeking to be a pauper or a parasite; she
                        was trying to find steady employment at living wages—that is, at
                        wages above the market value for female—and for most
                        male—labor. And that sort of purpose cannot compel.
                    Our civilization overflows with charity—which is simply willingness
                        to hand back to labor as generous gracious alms a small part of the loot
                        from the just wages of labor. But of real help—just wages for
                        honest  labor—there is little, for
                        real help would disarrange the system, would abolish the upper classes.
                    She had some faint hopes in the direction of millinery and dressmaking, the
                        things for which she felt she had distinct talent. She was soon disabused.
                        There was nothing for her, and could be nothing until after several years of
                        doubtful apprenticeship in the trades to which any female person seeking
                        employment to piece out an income instinctively turned first and offered
                        herself at the employer's own price. Day after day, from the first
                        moment of the industrial day until its end, she hunted—wearily, yet
                        unweariedly—with resolve living on after the death of hope. She
                        answered advertisements; despite the obviously sensible warnings of the
                        working girls she talked with she even consulted and took lists from the
                        religious and charitable organizations, patronized by those whose enthusiasm
                        about honest work had never been cooled by doing or trying to do any of it,
                        and managed by those who, beginning as workers, had made all haste to escape
                        from it into positions where they could live by talking about it and lying
                        about it—saying the things comfortable people subscribe to
                        philanthropies to hear.
                    There was work, plenty of it. But not at decent wages, and not leading to
                        wages that could be earned without viciously wronging those under her in an
                        executive position. But even in those cases the prospect of promotion was
                        vague and remote, with illness and failing strength and poor food, worse
                        clothing and lodgings, as certainties straightway. At some places she was
                        refused with the first glance at her. No good-looking girls wanted; even
                        though they behaved themselves and attracted customers, the customers lost
                        sight of matters of merchandise in the all-absorbing matter  of sex. In offices a good-looking girl upset
                        discipline, caused the place to degenerate into a deer-haunt in the mating
                        season. No place did she find offering more than four dollars a week, except
                        where the dress requirements made the nominally higher wages even less.
                        Everywhere women's wages were based upon the assumption that women
                        either lived at home or made the principal part of their incomes by
                        prostitution, disguised or frank. In fact, all wages—even the wages
                        of men—except in a few trades—were too small for an
                        independent support. There had to be a family—and the whole family
                        had to work—and even then the joint income was not enough for
                        decency. She had no family or friends to help her—at least, no
                        friends except those as poor as herself, and she could not commit the crime
                        of adding to their miseries.
                    She had less than ten dollars left. She must get to work at once—and
                        what she earned must supply her with all. A note came from
                        Jeffries—a curt request that she call—curt to disguise the
                        eagerness to have her back. She tore it up. She did not even debate the
                        matter. It was one of her significant qualities that she never had the
                        inclination, apparently lacked the power, to turn back once she had turned
                        away. Mary Hinkle came, urged her. Susan listened in silence, merely shook
                        her head for answer, changed the subject.
                    In the entrance to the lofts of a tall Broadway building she saw a placard:
                        "Experienced hands at fancy ready-to-wear hat trimming
                        wanted." She climbed three steep flights and was in a large,
                        low-ceilinged room where perhaps seventy-five girls were at work. She paused
                        in the doorway long enough to observe the kind of work—a purely
                        mechanical process of stitching a few trimmings in exactly the same way  upon a cheap hat frame. Then she went to an
                        open window in a glass partition and asked employment of a young Jew with an
                        incredibly long nose thrusting from the midst of a pimply face which seemed
                        merely its too small base.
                    "Experienced?" asked the young man.
                    "I can do what those girls are doing."
                    With intelligent eyes he glanced at her face, then let his glance rove
                        contemptuously over the room full of workers. "I should hope
                        so," said he. "Forty cents a dozen. Want to try
                        it?"
                    "When may I go to work?"
                    "Right away. Write your name here."
                    Susan signed her name to what she saw at a glance was some sort of contract.
                        She knew it contained nothing to her advantage, much to her disadvantage.
                        But she did not care. She had to have work—something, anything that
                        would stop the waste of her slender capital. And within fifteen minutes she
                        was seated in the midst of the sweating, almost nauseatingly odorous women
                        of all ages, was toiling away at the simple task of making an ugly hat frame
                        still more ugly by the addition of a bit of tawdry cotton ribbon, a buckle,
                        and a bunch of absurdly artificial flowers. She was soon able to calculate
                        roughly what she could make in six days. She thought she could do two dozen
                        of the hats a day; and twelve dozen hats at forty cents the dozen would mean
                        four dollars and eighty cents a week!
                    Four dollars and eighty cents! Less than she had planned to set aside for
                        food alone, out of her ten dollars as a model.
                    Next her on the right sat a middle-aged woman, grossly fat, repulsively
                        shapeless, piteously homely—one of those luckless human beings who
                        are foredoomed  from the outset never to know
                        any of the great joys of life—the joys that come through our power
                        to attract our fellow-beings. As this woman stitched away, squinting through
                        the steel-framed spectacles set upon her snub nose, Susan saw that she had
                        not even good health to mitigate her lot, for her color was pasty and on her
                        dirty skin lay blotches of dull red. Except a very young girl here and there
                        all the women had poor or bad skins. And Susan was not made disdainful by
                        the odor which is far worse than that of any lower animal, however dirty,
                        because the human animal must wear clothing. She had lived in wretchedness
                        in wretchedness in a tenement; she knew that this odor was an inevitable
                        part of tenement life when one has neither the time nor the means to be
                        clean. Poor food, foul air, broken sleep—bad health, disease,
                        unsightly faces, repulsive bodies!
                    No wonder the common people looked almost like another race in contrast with
                        their brothers and sisters of the comfortable classes. Another race! The
                        race into which she would soon be reborn under the black magic of poverty!
                        As she glanced and reflected on what she saw, viewed it in the light of her
                        experience, her fingers slackened, and she could speed them up only in
                        spurts.
                    "If I stay here," thought she, "in a few weeks I
                        shall be like these others. No matter how hard I may fight, I'll be
                        dragged down." As impossible to escape the common lot as for a
                        swimmer alone in midocean to keep up indefinitely; whether long or brief,
                        the struggle could have but the one end—to be sunk in, merged in,
                        the ocean.
                    It took no great amount of vanity for her to realize that she was in every
                        way the superior of all those  around
                        her—in every way except one. What did she lack? Why was it that
                        with her superior intelligence, her superior skill both of mind and of body,
                        she could be thus dragged down and held far below her natural level? Why
                        could she not lift herself up among the sort of people with whom she
                        belonged—or even make a beginning toward lifting herself up? Why
                        could she not take hold? What did she lack? What must she
                        acquire—or what get rid of?
                    At lunch time she walked with the ugly woman up and down the first side
                        street above the building in which the factory was located. She ate a roll
                        she bought from a pushcart man, the woman munched an apple with her few
                        remnants of teeth. "Most of the girls is always kicking,"
                        said the woman. "But I'm mighty satisfied. I get enough to
                        eat and to wear, and I've got a bed to sleep in—and what
                        else is there in life for anybody, rich or poor?"
                    "There's something to be said for that," replied
                        Susan, marveling to find in this piteous creature the only case of thorough
                        content she had ever seen.
                    "I make my four to five per," continued the woman.
                        "And I've got only myself. Thank God, I was never fool
                        enough to marry. It's marrying that drags us poor people down and
                        makes us miserable. Some says to me, 'Ain't you
                        lonesome?' And I says to them, says I, 'Why, I'm
                        used to being alone. I don't want anything else.' If they
                        was all like me, they'd not be fight-in' and
                        drinkin' and makin' bad worse. The bosses always likes to
                        give me work. They say I'm a model worker, and I'm proud
                        to say they're right. I'm mighty grateful to the bosses
                        that provide for the like of us. What'd we do without 'em?
                        That's what I'd like to
                        know."
                    
                    She had pitied this woman because she could never hope to experience any of
                        the great joys of life. What a waste of pity, she now thought. She had
                        overlooked the joy of joys—delusions. This woman was secure for
                        life against unhappiness.
                    A few days, and Susan was herself regarded as a model worker. She turned out
                        hats so rapidly that the forewoman, urged on by Mr. Himberg, the proprietor,
                        began to nag at the other girls. And presently a notice of general reduction
                        to thirty-five cents a dozen was posted. There had been a union; it had won
                        a strike two years before—and then had been broken up by shrewd
                        employing of detectives who had got themselves elected officers. With the
                        union out of the way, there was no check upon the bosses in their natural
                        and lawful effort to get that profit which is the most high god of our
                        civilization. A few of the youngest and most spirited girls—those
                        from families containing several workers—indignantly quit. A few
                        others murmured, but stayed on. The mass dumbly accepted the extra twist in
                        the screw of the mighty press that was slowly squeezing them to death.
                        Neither to them nor to Susan herself did it happen to occur that she was the
                        cause of the general increase of hardship and misery. However, to have
                        blamed her would have been as foolish and as unjust as to blame any other
                        individual. The system ordained it all. Oppression and oppressed were both
                        equally its helpless instruments. No wonder all the vast beneficent
                        discoveries of science that ought to have made the whole human race healthy,
                        long-lived and prosperous, are barely able to save the race from swift decay
                        and destruction under the ravages of this modern system of labor worse than
                        slavery—for under slavery the slave, being property whose loss
                        could not  be made good without expense, was
                        protected in life and in health.
                    Susan soon discovered that she had miscalculated her earning power. She had
                        been deceived by her swiftness in the first days, before the monotony of her
                        task had begun to wear her down. Her first week's earnings were
                        only four dollars and thirty cents. This in her freshness, and in the
                        busiest season when wages were at the highest point.
                    In the room next hers—the same, perhaps a little
                        dingier—lived a man. Like herself he had no trade—that is,
                        none protected by a powerful union and by the still more
                        powerful—in fact, the only powerful shield—requirements of
                        health and strength and a certain grade of intelligence that together act
                        rigidly to exclude most men and so to keep wages from dropping to the
                        neighborhood of the line of pauperism. He was the most industrious and, in
                        his small way, the most resourceful of men. He was insurance agent, toilet
                        soap agent, piano tuner, giver of piano lessons, seller of pianos and of
                        music on commission. He worked fourteen and sixteen hours a day. He made
                        nominally about twelve to fifteen a week. Actually—because of the
                        poverty of his customers and his too sympathetic nature—he made
                        five to six a week—the most any working person could hope for
                        unless in one of the few favored trades. Barely enough to keep body and soul
                        together. And why should capital that needs so much for fine houses and
                        wines and servants and automobiles and culture and charity and the other
                        luxuries—why should capital pay more when so many were competing
                        for the privilege of being allowed to work?
                    She gave up her room at Mrs. Tucker's—after she had spent
                        several evenings walking the streets and observing  and thinking about the miseries of the fast women of the only
                        class she could hope to enter. "A woman," she decided,
                        "can't even earn a decent living that way unless she has
                        the money to make the right sort of a start. 'To him that hath
                        shall be given; from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which
                        he hath.' Gideon was my chance—and I threw it
                        away."
                    Still, she did not regret. Of all the horrors the most repellent seemed to
                        her to be dependence upon some one man who could take it away at his
                        whim.
                    She disregarded the advice of the other girls and made the rounds of the
                        religious and charitable homes for working girls. She believed she could
                        endure perhaps better than could girls with more false pride, with more awe
                        of snobbish conventionalities—at least she could try to
                        endure—the superciliousness, the patronizing airs, the petty
                        restraints and oppressions, the nauseating smugness, the constant prying and
                        peeping, the hypocritical lectures, the heavy doses of smug morality. She
                        felt that she could bear with almost any annoyances and humiliations to be
                        in clean surroundings and to get food that was at least not so rotten that
                        the eye could see it and the nose smell it. But she found all the homes
                        full, with long waiting lists, filled for the most part, so the working
                        girls said, with professional objects of charity. Thus she had no
                        opportunity to judge for herself whether there was any truth in the
                        prejudice of the girls against these few and feeble attempts to mitigate the
                        miseries of a vast and ever vaster multitude of girls. Adding together all
                        the accommodations offered by all the homes of every description, there was
                        a total that might possibly have provided for the homeless girls of a dozen
                             factories or sweatshops—and the
                        number of homeless girls was more than a quarter of a million, was
                        increasing at the rate of more than a hundred a day.
                    Charity is so trifling a force that it can, and should be, disregarded. It
                        serves no good useful service. It enables comfortable
                        people to delude themselves that all that can be done is being done to
                        mitigate the misfortunes which the poor bring upon themselves. It obscures
                        the truth that modern civilization has been perverted into a huge
                        manufacturing of decrepitude and disease, of poverty and prostitution. The
                        reason we talk so much and listen so eagerly when our magnificent
                        benevolences are the subject is that we do not wish to be
                        disturbed—and that we dearly love the tickling sensation in our
                        vanity of generosity.
                    Susan was compelled to the common lot—the lot that will be the
                        common lot as long as there are people to be made, by taking advantage of
                        human necessities, to force men and women and children to degrade themselves
                        into machines as wage-slaves. At two dollars a week, double what her income
                        justified—she rented a room in a tenement flat in Bleecker street.
                        It was a closet of a room whose thin, dirt-adorned walls were no protection
                        against sound or vermin, not giving even privacy from prying eyes. She might
                        have done a little better had she been willing to share room and bed with
                        one or more girls, but not enough better to compensate for what that would
                        have meant.
                    The young Jew with the nose so impossible that it elevated his countenance
                        from commonplace ugliness to weird distinction had taken a friendly fancy to
                        her. He was Julius Bam, nephew of the proprietor. In her third week he
                        offered her the forewoman's place. "You've got a
                        few brains in your head," said he. "Miss  Tuohy's a boob. Take the job and
                        you'll push up. We'll start you at five per."
                    Susan thanked him but declined. "What's the use of my
                        taking a job I couldn't keep more than a day or two?"
                        explained she. "I haven't it in me to boss
                        people."
                    "Then you've got to get it, or you're done
                        for," said he. "Nobody ever gets anywhere until
                        he's making others work for him."
                    It was the advice she had got from Matson, the paper box manufacturer in
                        Cincinnati. It was the lesson she found in all prosperity on every hand.
                        Make others work for you—and the harder you made them work the more
                        prosperous you were—provided, of course, you kept all or nearly all
                        the profits of their harder toil. Obvious common sense. But how could she
                        goad these unfortunates, force their clumsy fingers to move faster, make
                        their long and weary day longer and wearier—with nothing for them
                        as the result but duller brain, clumsier fingers, more wretched bodies? She
                        realized why those above lost all patience with them, treated them with
                        contempt. Only as one of them could any intelligent, energetic human being
                        have any sympathy for them, stupid and incompetent from birth, made ever
                        more and more stupid and incapable by the degrading lives they led. She
                        could scarcely conceal her repulsion for their dirty bodies, their stained
                        and rotting clothing saturated with stale sweat, their coarse flesh reeking
                        coarse food smells. She could not listen to their conversation, so vulgar,
                        so inane. Yet she felt herself—for the time—one of them,
                        and her heart bled for them. And while she knew that only their dullness of
                        wit and ignorance kept them from climbing up and stamping and trampling full
                        as savagely and cruelly as  did those on top,
                        still the fact remained that they were not stamping and trampling.
                    As she was turning in some work, Miss Tuohy said abruptly: "You
                        don't belong here. You ought to go back."
                    Susan started, and her heart beat wildly. She was going to lose her job!
                    The forelady saw, and instantly understood. "I don't mean
                        that," she said. "You can stay as long as you
                        like—as long as your health lasts. But isn't there
                        somebody somewhere—anybody—you can go to
                        and ask them to help you out of this?"
                    "No—there's no one," said she.
                    "That can't be true," insisted the forelady.
                        "Everybody has somebody—or can get somebody—that
                        is, anyone who looks like you. I wouldn't suggest such a thing to a
                        fool. But you could keep your head. There isn't
                        any other way, and you might as well make up your mind to it."
                    To confide is one of the all but universal longings—perhaps
                        needs—of human nature. Susan's honest, sympathetic eyes,
                        her look and her habit of reticence, were always attracting confidences from
                        such unexpected sources as hard, forbidding Miss Tuohy. Susan was not much
                        surprised when Miss Tuohy went on to say:
                    "I was spoiled when I was still a kid—by getting to know
                        well a man who was above my class. I had tastes that way, and he appealed to
                        them. After him I couldn't marry the sort of man that wanted me.
                        Then my looks went—like a flash—it often happens that way
                        with us Irish girls. But I can get on. I know how to deal with these
                        people—and you never could learn. You'd
                        treat 'em like ladies and they'd treat you as easy  fruit. Yes, I get along all right, and
                        I'm happy—away from here."
                    Susan's sympathetic glance of inquiry gave the necessary
                        encouragement. "It's a baby," Miss Tuohy
                        explained—and Susan knew it was for the baby's sake that
                        this good heart had hardened itself to the dirty work of forelady. Her eyes
                        shifted as she said, "A child of my sister's—dead
                        in Ireland. How I do love that baby—"
                    They were interrupted and it so happened that the confidence was never
                        resumed and finished. But Miss Tuohy had made her point with
                        Susan—had set her to thinking less indefinitely. "I must take hold!" Susan kept saying to herself.
                        The phrase was always echoing in her brain. But how?—how? And to that question she could find no answer.
                    Every morning she bought a one-cent paper whose big circulation was in large
                        part due to its want ads—its daily section of closely printed
                        columns of advertisements of help wanted and situations wanted. Susan read
                        the columns diligently. At first they acted upon her like an intoxicant,
                        filling her not merely with hope but with confident belief that soon she
                        would be in a situation where the pay was good and the work agreeable, or at
                        least not disagreeable. But after a few weeks she ceased from reading.
                    Why? Because she answered the advertisements, scores of them, more than a
                        hundred, before she saw through the trick and gave up. She found that
                        throughout New York all the attractive or even tolerable places were filled
                        by girls helped by their families or in other ways, girls working at less
                        than living wages because they did not have to rely upon their wages for
                        their support. And those help wanted advertisements  were simply appeals for more girls of that sort—for
                        cheaper girls; or they were inserted by employment agencies, masquerading in
                        the newspaper as employers and lying in wait to swindle working girls by
                        getting a fee in exchange for a false promise of good work at high wages; or
                        they were the nets flung out by crafty employers who speeded and starved
                        their slaves, and wished to recruit fresh relays to replace those that had
                        quit in exhaustion or in despair.
                    "Why do you always read the want ads?" she said to Lany
                        Ricardo, who spent all her spare time at those advertisements in two papers
                        she bought and one she borrowed every day. "Did you ever get
                        anything good, or hear of anybody that did?"
                    "Oh, my, no," replied Lany with a laugh. "I read
                        for the same reason that all the rest do. It's a kind of dope. You
                        read and then you dream about the places—how grand they are and how
                        well off you'll be. But nobody'd be fool enough to answer
                        one of 'em unless she was out of a job and had to get another and
                        didn't care how rotten it was. No, it's just
                        dope—like buyin' policy numbers or lottery tickets. You
                        know you won't git a prize, but you have a lot of fun dreaming
                        about it."
                    As Susan walked up and down at the lunch hour, she talked with workers, both
                        men and women, in all sorts of employment. Some were doing a little better
                        than she; others—the most—were worse off chiefly because
                        her education, her developed intelligence, enabled her to ward off savage
                        blows—such as illness from rotten food—against which their
                        ignorance made them defenseless. Whenever she heard a story of
                        someone's getting on, how grotesquely different it was from the  stories she used to get out of the Sunday
                        school library and dream over! These almost actualities of getting on had
                        nothing in them about honesty and virtue. According to them it was always
                        some sort of meanness or trickery; and the particular meanness or tricks
                        were, in these practical schools of success in session at each lunch hour,
                        related in detail as lessons in how to get on. If the success under
                        discussion was a woman's, it was always how her boss or employer
                        had "got stuck on her" and had given her an easier job
                        with good pay so that she could wear clothes more agreeable to his eyes and
                        to his touch. Now and then it was a wonderful dazzling success—some
                        girl had got her rich employer so "dead crazy" about her
                        that he had taken her away from work altogether and had set her up in a flat
                        with a servant and a "swell trap"; there was even talk of
                        marriage.
                    Was it true? Were the Sunday school books through and through
                        lies—ridiculous, misleading lies, wicked lies—wicked
                        because they hid the shameful truth that ought to be proclaimed from the
                        housetops? Susan was not sure. Perhaps envy twisted somewhat these tales of
                        rare occasional successes told by the workers to each other. But certain it
                        was that, wherever she had the opportunity to see for herself, success came
                        only by hardness of heart, by tricks and cheats. Certain it was also that
                        the general belief among the workers was that success could be got in those
                        ways only—and this belief made the falsehood, if it was a
                        falsehood, or the partial truth, if it was a twisted truth, full as
                        poisonous as if it had been true through-out. Also, if the thing were not
                        true, how came it that everyone in practical life believed it to be
                        so—how came it that everyone who talked in praise of honesty  and virtue looked, as he talked, as if he were
                        canting and half expected to be laughed at?
                    All about her as badly off as she, or worse off. Yet none so unhappy as
                        she—not even the worse off. In fact, the worse off as the better
                        off were not so deeply wretched. Because they had never in all their lives
                        known the decencies of life—clean lodgings, clean clothing, food
                        fit to eat, leisure and the means of enjoying leisure. And Susan had known
                        all these things. When she realized why her companions in misery, so feeble
                        in self-restraint, were able to endure patiently and for the most part even
                        cheerfully, how careful she was never to say or to suggest anything that
                        might put ideas of what life might be, of what it was for the comfortable
                        few, into the minds of these girls who never had known and could only be
                        made wretched by knowing! How fortunate for them, she thought, that they had
                        gone to schools where they met only their own kind! How fortunate that the
                        devouring monster of industry had snatched them away from school before
                        their minds had been awakened to the realities of life! How fortunate that
                        their imaginations were too dull and too heavy to be touched by the sights
                        of luxury they saw in the streets or by what they read in the newspapers and
                        in the cheap novels! To them, as she soon realized, their world seemed the
                        only world, and the world that lived in comfort seemed a vague unreality, as
                        must seem whatever does not come into our own experience.
                    One lunch hour an apostle of discontent preaching some kind of politics or
                        other held forth on the corner above the shop. Susan paused to listen. She
                        had heard only a few words when she was incensed to the depths of her heart
                        against him. He ought to be  stopped by the
                        police, this scoundrel trying to make these people unhappy by awakening them
                        to the misery and degradation of their lot! He looked like an honest,
                        earnest man. No doubt he fancied that he was in some way doing good. These
                        people who were always trying to do the poor good—they ought all to
                        be suppressed! If someone could tell them how to cease to be poor, that
                        would indeed be good. But such a thing would be impossible. In Sutherland,
                        where the best off hadn't so painfully much more than the worst
                        off, and where everybody but the idle and the drunken, and even they most of
                        the time, had enough to eat, and a decent place to sleep, and some kind of
                        Sunday clothes—in Sutherland the poverty was less than in
                        Cincinnati, infinitely less than in this vast and incredibly rich New York
                        where in certain districts wealth, enormous wealth, was piled up and up. So
                        evidently the presence of riches did not help poverty but seemed to increase
                        it. No, the disease was miserable, thought Susan. For most of the human
                        race, disease and bad food and vile beds in dingy holes and days of fierce,
                        poorly paid toil—that was the law of this hell of a world. And to
                        escape from that hideous tyranny, you must be hard, you must trample, you
                        must rob, you must cease to be human.
                    The apostle of discontent insisted that the law could be changed, that the
                        tyranny could be abolished. She listened, but he did not convince her. He
                        sounded vague and dreamy—as fantastically false in his new way as
                        she had found the Sunday school books to be. She passed on.
                    She continued to pay out a cent each day for the newspaper. She no longer
                        bothered with the want ads. Pipe dreaming did not attract her; she was too
                        fiercely bent upon escape, actual escape, to waste time in  dreaming of ways of escape that she never
                        could realize. She read the paper because, if she could not live in the
                        world but was battered down in its dark and foul and crowded cellar, she at
                        least wished to know what was going on up in the light and air. She found
                        every day news of great doings, of wonderful rises, of rich rewards for
                        industry and thrift, of abounding prosperity and of opportunity fairly
                        forcing itself into acceptance. But all this applied only to the few so
                        strangely and so luckily chosen, while the mass was rejected. For that mass,
                        from earliest childhood until death, there was only toil in
                        squalor—squalid food, squalid clothing, squalid shelter. And when
                        she read one day—in an obscure paragraph in her
                        newspaper—that the income of the average American family was less
                        than twelve dollars a week—less than two dollars and a half a week
                        for each individual—she realized that what she was seeing and
                        living was not New York and Cincinnati, but was the common lot, country
                        wide, no doubt world wide.
                    
                        "Must take hold!" her mind cried
                        incessantly to her shrinking heart.
                        "Somehow—anyhow—take
                            hold!—must—must—must!"
                    
                    Those tenement houses! Those tenement streets! Everywhere wandering through
                        the crowds the lonely old women—holding up to the girls the mirror
                        of time and saying: "Look at my misery! Look at my disease-blasted
                        body. Look at my toil-bent form and toil-wrecked hands. Look at my masses of
                        wrinkles, at my rags, at my leaky and rotten shoes. Think of my
                        aloneness—not a friend—feared and cast off by my relatives
                        because they are afraid they will have to give me food and lodgings. Look at
                        me—think of my life—and know that I am you as you will be a few years  from
                        now whether you work as a slave to the machine or as a slave to the passions
                        of one or of many men. I am you. Not one in a hundred
                        thousand escape my fat—except by death."
                    "Somehow—anyhow—I must take hold," cried
                        Susan to her swooning heart.
                    When her capital had dwindled to three dollars Mrs. Tucker appeared. Her face
                        was so beaming bright that Susan, despite her being clad in garments on
                        which a pawnshop would advance nothing, fancied she had come with good
                        news.
                    "Now that I'm rid of that there house," said she,
                        "I'll begin to perk up. I ain't got nothing left
                        to worry me. I'm ready for whatever blessings the dear
                        Master'll provide. My pastor tells me I'm the finest
                        example of Christian fortitude he ever saw. But"—and Mrs.
                        Tucker spoke with genuine modesty—"I tell him I
                        don't deserve no credit for leaning on the Lord. If I can trust Him
                        in death, why not in life?"
                    "You've got a place? The church has—"
                    "Bless you, no," cried Mrs. Tucker. "Would I
                        burden 'em with myself, when there's so many that has to
                        be looked after? No, I go direct to the Lord."
                    "What are you going to do? What place have you got?"
                    "None as yet. But He'll provide
                        something—something better'n I deserve."
                    Susan had to turn away, to hide her pity—and her disappointment. Not
                        only was she not to be helped, but also she must help another. "You
                        might get a job at the hat factory," said she.
                    Mrs. Tucker was delighted. "I knew it!" she cried.
                        "Don't you see how He looks after me?"
                    Susan persuaded Miss Tuohy to take Mrs. Tucker 
                        on. She could truthfully recommend the old woman as a hard worker. They
                        moved into a room in a tenement in South Fifth Avenue. Susan read in the
                        paper about a model tenement and went to try for what was described as real
                        luxury in comfort and cleanliness. She found that sort of tenements filled
                        with middle-class families on their way down in the world and making their
                        last stand against rising rents and rising prices. The model tenement rents
                        were far, far beyond her ability to pay. She might as well think of moving
                        to the Waldorf. She and Mrs. Tucker had to be content with a dark room on
                        the fifth floor, opening on a damp air shaft whose odor was so foul that in
                        comparison the Clinton Place shaft was as the pure breath of the open sky.
                        For this shelter—more than one-half the free and proud citizens of
                        prosperous America dwelling in cities occupy its like, or
                        worse—they paid three dollars a week—a dollar and a half
                        apiece. They washed their underclothing at night, slept while it was drying.
                        And Susan, who could not bring herself to imitate the other girls and wear a
                        blouse of dark color that was not to be washed, rose at four to do the
                        necessary ironing. They did their own cooking. It was no longer possible for
                        Susan to buy quality and content herself with small quantity. However small
                        the quantity of food she could get along on, it must be of poor
                        quality—for good quality was beyond her means.
                    It maddened her to see the better class of working girls. Their fairly good
                        clothing, their evidences of some comfort at home, seemed to mock at her as
                        a poor fool who was being beaten down because she had not wit enough to get
                        on. She knew these girls were either supporting themselves in part by
                        prostitution or were held up by their families, by the pooling of  the earnings of several persons. Left to
                        themselves, to their own earnings at work, they would be no better off than
                        she, or at best so little better off that the difference was unimportant. If
                        to live decently in New York took an income of fifteen dollars a week, what
                        did it matter whether one got five or ten or twelve? Any wages below fifteen
                        meant a steady downward drag—meant exposure to the dirt and poison
                        of poverty tenements—meant the steady decline of the power of
                        resistance, the steady oozing away of self-respect, of the courage and hope
                        that give the power to rise. To have less than the fifteen dollars
                        absolutely necessary for decent surroundings, decent clothing, decent
                        food—that meant one was drowning. What matter whether the death of
                        the soul was quick, or slow, whether the waters of destruction were twenty
                        feet deep or twenty thousand?
                    Mrs. Reardon, the servant woman on the top floor, was evicted and Susan and
                        Mrs. Tucker took her in. She protested that she could sleep on the floor,
                        that she had done so a large part of her life—that she preferred it
                        to most beds. But Susan made her up a kind of bed in the corner. They would
                        not let her pay anything. She had rheumatism horribly, some kind of lung
                        trouble, and the almost universal and repulsive catarrh that preys upon
                        working people. Her hair had dwindled to a meager wisp. This she wound into
                        a hard little knot and fastened with an imitation tortoise-shell comb, huge,
                        high, and broken, set with large pieces of glass cut like diamonds. Her
                        teeth were all gone and her cheeks almost met in her mouth.
                    One day, when Mrs. Tucker and Mrs. Reardon were exchanging eulogies upon the
                        goodness of God to them, Susan shocked them by harshly ordering them to be
                             silent. "If God hears
                        you," she said, "He'll think you're
                        mocking Him. Anyhow, I can't stand any more of it. Hereafter do
                        your talking of that kind when I'm not here."
                    Another day Mrs. Reardon told about her sister. The sister had worked in a
                        factory where some sort of poison that had a rotting effect on the human
                        body was used in the manufacture. Like a series of others the sister caught
                        the disease. But instead of rotting out a spot, a few fingers, or part of
                        the face, it had eaten away the whole of her lower jaw so that she had to
                        prepare her food for swallowing by first pressing it with her fingers
                        against her upper teeth. Used as Susan was to hearing horrors in this region
                        where disease and accident preyed upon every family, she fled from the room
                        and walked shuddering about the streets—the streets with their
                        incessant march past of blighted and blasted, of maimed and crippled and
                        worm-eaten. Until that day Susan had been about as unobservant of the
                        obvious things as is the rest of the race. On that day she for the first
                        time noticed the crowd in the street, with mind alert to signs of the
                        ravages of accident and disease. Hardly a sound body, hardly one that was
                        not piteously and hideously marked.
                    When she returned—and she did not stay out long—Mrs. Tucker
                        was alone. Said she:
                    "Mrs. Reardon says the rotten jaw was sent on her sister as a
                        punishment for marrying a Protestant, she being a Catholic. How ignorant
                        some people is! Of course, the good Lord sent the judgment on her for being
                        a Catholic at all."
                    "Mrs. Tucker," said Susan, "did you ever hear of
                        Nero?"
                    "He burned up Rome—and he burned up the Christian  martyrs," said Mrs. Tucker.
                        "I had a good schooling. Besides, sermons is highly
                        educating."
                    "Well," said Susan, "if I had a choice of living
                        under Nero or of living under that God you and Mrs. Reardon talk about,
                        I'd take Nero and be thankful and happy."
                    Mrs. Tucker would have fled if she could have afforded it. As it was all she
                        ventured was a sigh and lips moving in prayer.
                    On a Friday in late October, at the lunch hour, Susan was walking up and down
                        the sunny side of Broadway. It was the first distinctly cool day of the
                        autumn; there had been a heavy downpour of rain all morning, but the New
                        York sun that is ever struggling to shine and is successful on all but an
                        occasional day was tearing up and scattering the clouds with the aid of a
                        sharp north wind blowing down the deep canyon. She was wearing her summer
                        dress still—old and dingy but clean. That look of neatness about
                        the feet—that charm of a well-shaped foot and a well-turned ankle
                        properly set off—had disappeared—with her the surest sign
                        of the extreme of desperate poverty. Her shoes were much scuffed, were even
                        slightly down at the heel; her sailor hat would have looked only the worse
                        had it had a fresh ribbon on its crown. This first hint of winter had stung
                        her fast numbing faculties into unusual activity. She was remembering the
                        misery of the cold in Cincinnati—the misery that had driven her
                        into prostitution as a drunken driver's lash makes the frenzied
                        horse rush he cares not where in his desire to escape. This wind of
                        Broadway—this first warning of winter—it was hissing in
                        her ears: "Take hold! Winter is coming! Take hold!"
                    Summer and winter—fiery heat and brutal cold.  Like the devils in the poem, the poor—the masses, all
                        but a few of the human race—were hurried from fire to ice, to vary
                        their torment and to make it always exquisite.
                    To shelter herself for a moment she paused at a spot that happened to be
                        protected to the south by a projecting sidewalk sign. She was facing, with
                        only a tantalizing sheet of glass between, a display of winter underclothes
                        on wax figures. To show them off more effectively the sides and the back of
                        the window were mirrors. Susan's gaze traveled past the figures to
                        a person she saw standing at full length before her. "Who is that
                        pale, stooped girl?" she thought. "How dreary and sad she
                        looks! How hard she is fighting to make her clothes look decent, when they
                        aren't! She must be something like me—only much worse
                        off." And then she realized that she was gazing at her own image,
                        was pitying her own self. The room she and Mrs. Tucker and the old
                        scrubwoman occupied was so dark, even with its one little gas jet lighted,
                        that she was able to get only a faint look at herself in the little cracked
                        and water-marked mirror over its filthy washstand—filthy because
                        the dirt was so ground in that only floods of water and bars of soap could
                        have cleaned down to its original surface. She was having a clear look at
                        herself for the first time in three months.
                    She shrank in horror, yet gazed on fascinated. Why, her physical charm had
                        gone—gone, leaving hardly a trace! Those dull, hollow
                        eyes—that thin and almost ghastly face—the emaciated
                        form—the once attratcive hair now looking poor and stringy because
                        it could not be washed properly—above all, the sad, bitter
                        expression about the mouth. Those pale lips! Her lips had been from
                        childhood one of her conspicuous and most 
                        tempting beauties; and as the sex side of her nature had developed they had
                        bloomed into wonderful fresh-ness and vividness of form and color.
                        Now—
                    Those pale, pale lips! They seemed to form a sort of climax of tragedy to the
                        melancholy of her face. She gazed on and on. She noted every detail. How she
                        had fallen! Indeed, a fallen woman! These others had been born to the
                        conditions that were destroying her; they were no worse off, in many cases
                        better off. But she, born to comfort and custom of intelligent educated
                        associations and associates—
                    A fallen woman!
                    Honest work! Even if it were true that this honest work was a sort of
                        probation through which one rose to better things—even if this were
                        true, could it be denied that only a few at best could rise, that the
                        most—including all the sensitive, and most of the
                        children—must wallow on, must perish? Oh, the lies, the lies about
                        honest work!
                    Rosa Mohr, a girl of her own age who worked in the same room, joined her.
                        "Admiring yourself?" she said laughing. "Well, I
                        don't blame you. You are pretty."
                    Susan at first thought Rosa was mocking her. But the tone and expression were
                        sincere.
                    "It won't last long," Rosa went on. "I
                        wasn't so bad myself when I quit the high school and took a job
                        because father lost his business and his health. He got in the way of one of
                        those trusts. So of course they handed it to him good and hard. But he
                        wasn't a squealer. He always said they'd done only what
                        he'd been doing himself if he'd had the chance. I always
                        think of what papa used to say when I hear people carrying on about how
                        wicked this or that somebody else is."
                    
                    "Are you going to stay on—at this life?" asked
                        Susan, still looking at her own image.
                    "I guess so. What else is there? . . . I've got a steady.
                        We'll get married as soon as he has a raise to twelve per. But
                        I'll not be any better off. My beau's too stupid ever to
                        make much. If you see me ten years from now I'll probably be a fat,
                        sloppy old thing, warming a window sill or slouching about in dirty
                        rags."
                    "Isn't there any way to—to escape?"
                    "It does look as though there ought to be—doesn't
                        it? But I've thought and thought, and I
                        can't see it—and I'm pretty near straight Jew.
                        They say things are better than they used to be, and I guess they are. But
                        not enough better to help me any. Perhaps my children—if I'm fool enough to have any—perhaps
                        they'll get a chance. . . . But I wouldn't gamble on
                        it."
                    Susan was still looking at her rags—at her pale lips—was
                        avoiding meeting her own eyes. "Why not try the
                        streets?"
                    "Nothing in it," said Rosa, practically. "I did
                        try it for a while and quit. Lots of the girls do, and only the fools stay
                        at it. Once in a while there's a girl who's lucky and gets
                        a lover that's kind to her or a husband that can make good. But
                        that's luck. For one that wins out, a thousand lose."
                    "Luck?" said Susan.
                    Rosa laughed. "You're right. It's something else
                        besides luck. The trouble is a girl loses her head—falls in
                        love—supports a man-takes to drink—don't look out
                        for her health—wastes her money. Still—where's
                        the girl with head enough to get on where there's so many
                        temptations?"
                    
                    "But there's no chance at all, keeping straight, you
                        say."
                    "The other thing's worse. The street girls—of our
                        class, I mean—don't average as much as we do. And
                        it's an awful business in winter. And they spend so much time in
                        station houses and over on the Island. And, gosh! how the men do treat them!
                        You haven't any idea. You wouldn't believe the horrible
                        things the girls have to do to earn their money—a quarter or half a
                        dollar—and maybe the men don't pay them even that. A girl
                        tries to get her money in advance, but often she doesn't. And as
                        they have to dress better than we do, and live where they can clean up a
                        little, they 'most starve. Oh, that life's
                        hell."
                    Susan had turned away from her image, was looking at Rosa.
                    "As for the fast houses—" Rosa
                        shuddered—"I was in one for a week. I ran away—it
                        was the only way I could escape. I'd never tell any human being
                        what I went through in that house. . . . Never!" She watched
                        Susan's fine sympathetic face, and in a burst of confidence said:
                        "One night the landlady sent me up with seventeen men. And she kept
                        the seventeen dollars I made, and took away from me half a dollar one
                        drunken longshoreman gave me as a present. She said I owed it for board and
                        clothes. In those houses, high and low, the girls always owes the madam.
                        They haven't a stitch of their own to their backs."
                    The two girls stood facing each other, each looking past the other into the
                        wind-swept canyon of Broad-way—the majestic vista of lofty
                        buildings, symbols of wealth and luxury so abundant that it flaunted itself,
                        overflowed in gaudy extravagance. Finally Susan said:
                    
                    "Do you ever think of killing yourself?"
                    "I thought I would," replied the other girl. "But
                        I guess I wouldn't have. Everybody knows there's no hope,
                        yet they keep on hopin'. And I've got pretty good health
                        yet, and once in a while I have some fun. You ought to go to
                        dances—and drink. You wouldn't be blue all the time, then."
                    "If it wasn't for the sun," said Susan.
                    "The sun?" inquired Rosa.
                    "Where I came from," explained Susan, "it rained a
                        great deal, and the sky was covered so much of the time. But here in New
                        York there is so much sun. I love the sun. I get desperate—then out
                        comes the sun, and I say to myself, 'Well, I guess I can go on a
                        while longer, with the sun to help me.' "
                    "I hadn't thought of it," said Rosa, "but
                        the sun is a help."
                    That indefatigable New York sun! It was like Susan's own courage. It
                        fought the clouds whenever clouds dared to appear and contest its right to
                        shine upon the City of the Sun, and hardly a day was so stormy that for a
                        moment at least the sun did not burst through for a look at its beloved.
                    For weeks Susan had eaten almost nothing. During her previous sojourn in the
                        slums—the slums of Cincinnati, though they were not classed as
                        slums—the food had seemed revolting. But she was less
                        discriminating then. The only food she could afford now—the food
                        that is the best obtainable for a majority of the inhabitants of any
                        city—was simply impossible for her. She ate only when she could
                        endure no longer. This starvation no doubt saved her from illness; but at
                        the same time it drained her strength. Her vitality had been going down, a
                        little each day—lower and lower. The poverty  which had infuriated her at first was now acting upon her like
                        a soothing poison. The reason she had not risen to revolt was this slow and
                        subtle poison that explains the inertia of the tenement poor from baby-hood.
                        To be spirited one must have health or a nervous system diseased in some of
                        the ways that cause constant irritation. The disease called poverty is not
                        an irritant, but an anesthetic. If Susan had been born to that life, her
                        naturally vivacious temperament would have made her gay in unconscious
                        wretchedness; as it was, she knew her own misery and suffered from it
                        keenly—at times hideously—yet was rapidly losing the power
                        to revolt.
                    Perhaps it was the wind—yes, it must have been the wind with its
                        threat of winter—that roused her sluggish blood, that whipped
                        thought into action. Anything—anything would be right, if it
                        promised escape. Right—wrong! Hypocritical words for comfortable
                        people!
                    That Friday night, after her supper of half-cooked corn meal and tea, she
                        went instantly to work at washing out clothes. Mrs. Tucker spent the evening
                        gossiping with the janitress, came in about midnight. As usual she was full
                        to the brim with news of misery—of jobs lost, abandoned wives, of
                        abused children, of poisoning from rotten "fresh" food or
                        from "embalmed" stuff in cans, of sickness and yet more
                        sickness, of maiming accidents, of death—news that is the
                        commonplace of tenement life. She loved to tell these tales with all the
                        harrowing particulars and to find in each some evidence of the goodness of
                        God to herself. Often Susan could let her run on and on without listening.
                        But not that night. She resisted the impulse to bid her be silent, left the
                        room and stood at the hall window. When she returned Mrs. Tucker was in bed,
                        was  snoring in a tranquillity that was the
                        reverse of contagious. With her habitual cheerfulness she had adapted
                        herself to her changed condition without fretting. She had become as ragged
                        and as dirty as her neighbors; she so wrought upon Susan's
                        sensibilities, blunted though they were, that the girl would have been
                        unable to sleep in the same bed if she had not always been tired to
                        exhaustion when she lay down. But for that matter only exhaustion could have
                        kept her asleep in that vermin-infested hole. Even the fiercest swarms of
                        the insects that flew or ran or crawled and bit, even the filthy mice
                        squeaking as they played upon the covers or ran over the faces of the
                        sleepers, did not often rouse her.
                    While Mrs. Tucker snored, Susan worked on, getting every piece of at all fit
                        clothing in her meager wardrobe into the best possible condition. She did
                        not once glance at the face of the noisy sleeper—a face homely
                        enough in Mrs. Tucker's waking hours, hideous now with the mouth
                        open and a few scattered rotten teeth exposed, and the dark yellow-blue of
                        the unhealthy gums and tongue.
                    At dawn Mrs. Tucker awoke with a snort and a start. She rubbed her eyes with
                        her dirty and twisted and wrinkled fingers—the nails were worn and
                        broken, turned up as if warped at the edges, blackened with dirt and
                        bruisings. "Why, are you up already?" she to Susan.
                    "I've not been to bed," replied the girl.
                    The woman stretched herself, sat up, thrust her thick, stockinged legs over
                        the side of the bed. She slept in all her clothing but her skirt, waist, and
                        shoes. She kneeled down upon the bare, sprung, and slanting floor, said a
                        prayer, arose with a beaming face. "It's  nice and warm in the room. How I do dread the
                        winter, the cold weather—though no doubt we'll make out
                        all right! Everything always does turn out well for me. The Lord takes care
                        of me. I must make me a cup of tea."
                    "I've made it," said Susan.
                    The tea was frightful stuff—not tea at all, but cheap adulterants
                        colored poisonously. Everything they got was of the same quality; yet the
                        prices they paid for the tiny quantities they were able to buy at any one
                        time were at a rate that would have bought the finest quality at the most
                        expensive grocery in New York.
                    "Wonder why Mrs. Reardon don't come?" said Mrs.
                        Tucker. Mrs. Reardon had as her only work a one-night job at scrubbing.
                        "She ought to have come an hour ago."
                    "Her rheumatism was bad when she started," said Susan.
                        "I guess she worked slow."
                    When Mrs. Tucker had finished her second cup she put on her shoes, overskirt
                        and waist, made a few passes at her hair. She was ready to go to work.
                    Susan looked at her, murmured: "An honest, God-fearing working
                        woman!"
                    "Huh?" said Mrs. Tucker.
                    "Nothing," replied Susan who would not have permitted her
                        to hear. It would be cruel to put such ideas before one doomed beyond
                        hope.
                    Susan was utterly tired, but even the strong craving for a stimulant could
                        not draw that tea past her lips. She ate a piece of dry bread, washed her
                        face, neck, and hands. It was time to start for the factory.
                    That day—Saturday—was a half-holiday. Susan drew her
                        week's earnings—four dollars and ten cents— and
                             came home. Mrs. Tucker, who had
                        drawn—"thanks to the Lord"—three dollars
                        and a quarter, was with her. The janitress halted them as they passed and
                        told them that Mrs. Reardon was dead. She looked like another scrubwoman,
                        living down the street, who was known always to carry a sum of money in her
                        dress pocket, the banks being untrustworthy. Mrs. Reardon, passing along in
                        the dusk of the early morning, had been hit on the head with a blackjack.
                        The one blow had killed her.
                    Violence, tragedy of all kinds, were too commonplace in that neighborhood to
                        cause more than a slight ripple. An old scrubwoman would have had to die in
                        some peculiarly awful way to receive the flattery of agitating an agitated
                        street. Mrs. Reardon had died what was really almost a natural death. So the
                        faint disturbance of the terrors of life had long since disappeared. The
                        body was at the Morgue, of course.
                    "We'll go up, right away," said Mrs. Tucker.
                    "I've something to do that can't be put
                        off," replied Susan.
                    "I don't like for anyone as young as you to be so
                        hard," reproached Mrs. Tucker.
                    "Is it hard," said Susan, "to see that death
                        isn't nearly so terrible as life? She's safe and at peace.
                        I've got to live."
                    
                    Mrs. Tucker, eager for an emotional and religious opportunity, hastened away.
                        Susan went at her wardrobe—ironing, darning, fixing buttonholes,
                        hooks and eyes. She drew a bucket of water from the tap in the hall and
                        proceeded to wash her hair with soap; she rinsed it, dried it as well as she
                        could with their one small, thin towel, left it hanging free for the air to
                        finish the job.
                    
                    It had rained all the night before—the second heavy rain in two
                        months. But at dawn the rain had ceased, and the clouds had fled before the
                        sun that rules almost undisputed nine months of the year and wars valiantly
                        to rule the other three months—not altogether in vain. A few golden
                        strays found their way into that cave-like room and had been helping her
                        wonderfully. She bathed herself and scrubbed herself from head to foot. She
                        manicured her nails, got her hands and feet into fairly good condition. She
                        put on her best underclothes, her one remaining pair of undarned stockings,
                        the pair of ties she had been saving against an emergency. And once more she
                        had the charm upon which she most prided herself—the charm of an
                        attractive look about the feet and ankles. She then took up the dark-blue
                        hat frame—one of a lot of "seconds"—she
                        had bought for thirty-five cents at a bargain sale, trimmed it with a broad
                        dark-blue ribbon for which she had paid sixty cents. She was well
                        pleased—and justly so—with the result. The trimmed hat
                        might well have cost ten or fifteen dollars—for the largest part of
                        the price of a woman's hat is usually the taste of the arrangement
                        of the trimming.
                    By this time her hair was dry. She did it up with a care she had not had time
                        to give it in many a week. She put on the dark-blue serge skirt of the
                        between-seasons dress she had brought with her from Forty-fourth Street; she
                        had not worn it at all. With the feeble aid of the mirror that distorted her
                        image into grotesqueness, she put on her hat with the care that important
                        detail of a woman's toilet always deserves.
                    She completed her toilet with her one good and unworn blouse—plain
                        white, the yoke gracefully pointed—and  with a blue neck piece she had been saving. She made a bundle of all her
                        clothing that was fit for anything—including the unworn batiste
                        dress Jeffries and Jonas had given her. And into it she put the pistol she
                        had brought away from Forty-fourth Street. She made a separate bundle of the
                        Jeffries and Jonas hat with its valuable plumes. With the two bundles she
                        descended and went to a pawnshop in Houston Street, to which she had made
                        several visits.
                    A dirty-looking man with a short beard fluffy and thick like a yellow
                        hen's tail lurked behind the counter in the dark little shop. She
                        put her bundles on the counter, opened them. "How much can I get
                        for these things?" she asked.
                    The man examined every piece minutely. "There's really
                        nothing here but the summer dress and the hat," said he.
                        "And they're out of style. I can't give you more
                        than four dollars for the lot—and one for the pistol which is good
                        but old style now. Five dollars. How'll you have it?"
                    Susan folded the things and tied up the bundles. "Sorry to have
                        troubled you," she said, taking one in either hand.
                    "How much did you expect to get, lady?" asked the
                        pawnbroker.
                    "Twenty-five dollars."
                    He laughed, turned toward the back of the shop. As she reached the door he
                        called from his desk at which he seemed about to seat himself, "I
                        might squeeze you out ten dollars."
                    "The plumes on the hat will sell for thirty dollars," said
                        Susan. "You know as well as I do that ostrich feathers have gone
                        up."
                    The man slowly advanced. "I hate to see a customer  go away unsatisfied," said he.
                        "I'll give you twenty dollars."
                    "Not a cent less than twenty-five. At the next place I'll
                        ask thirty—and get it."
                    "I never can stand out against a lady. Give me the
                        stuff."
                    Susan put it on the counter again. Said she:
                    "I don't blame you for trying to do me. You're
                        right to try to buy your way out of hell."
                    The pawnbroker reflected, could not understand this subtlety, went behind his
                        counter. He produced a key from his pocket, unlocked a drawer underneath and
                        took out a large tin box. With another key from another pocket he unlocked
                        this, threw back the lid revealing a disorder of papers. From the depths he
                        fished a paper bag. This contained a roll of bills. He gave Susan a twenty
                        and a five, both covered with dirt so thickly that she could scarcely make
                        out the denominations.
                    "You'll have to give me cleaner money than this,"
                        said she.
                    "You are a fine lady," grumbled he. But he found cleaner
                        bills.
                    She turned to her room. At sight of her Mrs. Tucker burst out laughing with
                        delight. "My, but you do look like old times!" cried she.
                        "How neat and tasty you are! I suppose it's no need to ask
                        if you're going to church?"
                    "No," said Susan. "I've got nothing to
                        give, and I don't beg."
                    "Well, I ain't going there myself, lately—somehow.
                        They got so they weren't very cordial—or maybe it was me
                        thinking that way because I wasn't dressed up like. Still I do wish
                        you was more religious. But you'll 
                        come to it, for you're naturally a good girl. And when you do, the
                        Lord'll give you a more contented heart. Not that you complain. I
                        never knew anybody, especially a young person, that took things so quiet. .
                        . . It can't be you're going to a dance?"
                    "No," said Susan. "I'm going to
                        leave—go back uptown."
                    Mrs. Tucker plumped down upon the bed. "Leave for good?"
                        she gasped.
                    "I've got Nelly Lemayer to take my place here, if you want
                        her," said Susan. "Here is my share of the rent for next
                        week and half a dollar for the extra gas I've burned last night and
                        today."
                    "And Mrs. Reardon gone, too!" sobbed Mrs. Tucker, suddenly
                        remembering the old scrubwoman whom both had forgotten. "And up to
                        that there Morgue they wouldn't let me see her except where the
                        light was so poor that I couldn't rightly swear it was her. How
                        brutal everybody is to the poor! If they didn't have the Lord, what
                        would become of them! And you leaving me all alone!"
                    The sobs rose into hysteria. Susan stood impassive. She had seen again and
                        again how faint the breeze that would throw those shallow waters into
                        commotion and how soon they were tranquil again. It was by observing Mrs.
                        Tucker that she first learned an important unrecognized truth about human
                        nature—that amiable, easily sympathetic and habitually good-humored
                        people are invariably hard of heart. In this parting she had no sense of
                        loss, none of the melancholy that often oppresses us when we separate from
                        someone to whom we are indifferent yet feel bound by the tie of misfortunes
                        borne together. Mrs. Tucker, fallen into the habits of their surroundings,
                        was for her simply part  of them. And she was
                        glad she was leaving them—forever, she hoped. Christian, fleeing the City of Destruction, had no sterner mandate
                        to flight than her instinct was suddenly urging upon her.
                    When Mrs. Tucker saw that her tears were not appreciated, she decided that
                        they were unnecessary. She dried her eyes and said:
                    "Anyhow, I reckon Mrs. Reardon's taking-off was a
                        mercy."
                    "She's better dead," said Susan. She had abhorred
                        the old woman, even as she pitied and sheltered her. She had a way of
                        fawning and cringing and flattering—no doubt in well meaning
                        attempt to show gratitude—but it was unendurable to Susan. And now
                        that she was dead and gone, there was no call for further pretenses.
                    "You ain't going right away?" said Mrs.
                        Tucker.
                    "Yes," said Susan.
                    "You ought to stay to supper."
                    Supper! That revolting food! "No, I must go right away,"
                        replied Susan.
                    "Well, you'll come to see me. And maybe you'll be
                        back with us. You might go farther and do worse. On my way from the morgue I
                        dropped in to see a lady friend on the East Side. I guess the good Lord has
                        abandoned the East Side, there being nothing there but Catholics and Jews,
                        and no true religion. It's dreadful the way things is over
                        there—the girls are taking to the streets in droves. My lady friend
                        was telling me that some of the mothers is sending their little girls out
                        streetwalking, and some's even taking out them that's too
                        young to be trusted to go alone. And no money in it, at that. And food and
                        clothing prices going up and up. Meat and vegetables two and three  times what they was a few years ago. And
                        rents!" Mrs. Tucker threw up her hands.
                    "I must be going," said Susan.
                        "Good-by."
                    She put out her hand, but Mrs. Tucker insisted on kissing her. She crossed
                        Washington Square, beautiful in the soft evening light, and went up Fifth
                        Avenue. She felt that she was breathing the air of a different world as she
                        walked along the broad clean sidewalk with the handsome old houses on either
                        side, with carriages and automobiles speeding past, with clean, happy-faced,
                        well dressed human beings in sight everywhere. It was like coming out of the
                        dank darkness of Dismal Swamp into smiling fields with a pure, star-spangled
                        sky above. She was free—free! It might be for but a moment; still
                        it was freedom, infinitely sweet because of past slavery and because of the
                        fear of slavery closing in again. She had abandoned the old toilet articles.
                        She had only the clothes she was wearing, the thirty-one dollars divided
                        between her stockings, and the two-dollar bill stuffed into the palm of her
                        left glove.
                    She had walked but a few hundred feet. She had advanced into a region no more
                        prosperous to the eye than that she had been working in every day. Yet she
                        had changed her world—because she had changed her point of view.
                        The strata that form society lie in roughly parallel lines one above the
                        other. The flow of all forms of the currents of life is horizontally along
                        these strata, never vertically from one stratum to another. These strata,
                        lying apparently in contact, one upon another, are in fact abysmally
                        separated. There is not—and in the nature of things never can
                        be—any genuine human sympathy between any two strata. We sympathize in our own stratum, or class; toward other  strata—other classes—our
                        attitude is necessarily a looking up or a looking down. Susan, a bit of
                        flotsam, ascending, descending, ascending across the social layers-belonging
                        nowhere—having attachments, not sympathies, a real settled lot
                        nowhere—Susan was once more upward bound.
                    At the corner of Fourteenth Street there was a shop with large mirrors in the
                        show windows. She paused to examine herself. She found she had no reason to
                        be disturbed about her appearance. Her dress and hat looked well; her hair
                        was satisfactory; the sharp air had brought some life to the pallor of her
                        cheeks, and the release from the slums had restored some of the light to her
                        eyes. "Why did I stay there so long?" she demanded of
                        herself. Then, "How have I suddenly got the courage to
                        leave?" She had no answer to either question. Nor did she care for
                        an answer. She was not even especially interested in what was about to
                        happen to her.
                    The moment she found herself above Twenty-third Street and in the old
                        familiar surroundings, she felt an irresistible longing to hear about Rod
                        Spenser. She was like one who has been on a far journey, leaving behind him
                        everything that has been life to him; he dismisses it all because he must,
                        until he finds himself again in his own country, in his old surroundings.
                        She went into the Hoffman House and at the public telephone got the Herald office. "Is Mr. Drumley
                        there?"
                    "No," was the reply. "He's gone to
                        Europe."
                    "Did Mr. Spenser go with him?"
                    "Mr. Spenser isn't here—hasn't been for a
                        long time. He's abroad too. Who is this?"
                    "Thank you," said Susan, hanging up the receiver. She drew
                        a deep breath of relief.
                    
                    She left the hotel by the women's entrance in Broadway. It was six
                        o'clock. The sky was clear—a typical New York sky with air
                        that intoxicated blowing from it—air of the sea—air of the
                        depths of heaven. A crescent moon glittered above the Diana on the Garden
                        tower. It was Saturday night and Broadway was thronged—with men
                        eager to spend in pleasure part of the week's wages or salary they
                        had just drawn; with women sparkling-eyed and odorous of perfumes and eager
                        to help the men. The air was sharp—was the ocean air of New York at
                        its delicious best. And the slim, slightly stooped girl with the earnest
                        violet-gray eyes and the sad bitter mouth from whose lips the once brilliant
                        color had now fled was ready for whatever might come. She paused at the
                        corner, and gazed up brilliantly lighted Broadway.
                    "Now!" she said half aloud and, like an expert swimmer
                        adventuring the rapids, she advanced into the swift-moving crowd of the
                        highway of New York's gayety.
                
                
                
                    V
                    
                        AT the corner of Twenty-sixth Street a man put himself
                        squarely across her path. She was attracted by the twinkle in his
                        good-natured eyes. He was a youngish man, had the stoutness of indulgence in
                        a fondness for eating and drinking—but the stoutness was still well
                        within the bounds of decency. His clothing bore out the suggestion of his
                        self-assured way of stopping her—the suggestion of a
                        confidence-giving prosperity.
                    "You look as if you needed a drink, too," said he.
                        "How about it, lady with the lovely feet?"
                    For the first time in her life she was feeling on an equality with man. She
                        gave him the same candidly measuring glance that man gives man. She saw
                        good-nature, audacity without impudence—at least not the common
                        sort of impudence. She smiled merrily, glad of the chance to show her
                        delight that she was once more back in civilization after the long sojourn
                        in the prison workshops where it is manufactured. She said:
                    "A drink? Thank you—yes."
                    "That's a superior quality of smile you've got
                        there," said he. "That, and those nice slim feet of yours
                        ought to win for you anywhere. Let's so to the
                        Martin."
                    "Down University Place?"
                    The stout young man pointed his slender cane across the street. "You
                        must have been away."
                    "Yes," said the girl. "I've
                        been—dead."
                    "I'd like to try that myself—if I could be sure of
                             coming to life in little old New
                        York." And he looked round with laughing eyes as if the lights, the
                        crowds, the champagne-like air intoxicated him.
                    At the first break in the thunderous torrent of traffic they crossed Broadway
                        and went in at the Twenty-sixth Street entrance. The restaurant, to the
                        left, was empty. Its little tables were ready, however, for the throng of
                        diners soon to come. Susan had difficulty in restraining herself. She was
                        almost delirious with delight. She was agitated almost to tears by the
                        freshness, the sparkle in the glow of the red-shaded candles, in the colors
                        and odors of the flowers decorating every table. While she had been down
                        there all this had been up here—waiting for her! Why had she stayed
                        down there? But then, why had she gone? What folly, what madness! To suffer
                        such horrors for no reason—beyond some vague, clinging remnant of a
                        superstition—or had it been just plain insanity? "Yes,
                        I've been crazy—out of my head. The break
                        with—Rod—upset my mind."
                    Her companion took her into the café to the right. He seated her on one of
                        the leather benches not far from the door, seated himself in a chair
                        opposite; there was a narrow marble-topped table between them. On
                        Susan's right sat a too conspicuously dressed but somehow important
                        looking actress; on her left, a shopkeeper's fat wife. Opposite
                        each woman sat the sort of man one would expect to find with her. The face
                        of the actress's man interested her. It was a long pale face, the
                        mouth weary, in the eyes a strange hot fire of intense enthusiasm. He was
                        young—and old—and neither. Evidently he had lived every
                        minute of every year of his perhaps forty years. He was wearing a quiet suit
                        of blue and his necktie was of a darker  shade
                        of the same color. His clothes were draped upon his good figure with a
                        certain fascinating distinction. He was smoking an unusually long and thick
                        cigarette. The slender strong white hand he raised and lowered was the hand
                        of an artist. He might be a bad man, a very bad man—his face had an
                        expression of freedom, of experience, that made such an idea as
                        conventionality in connection with him ridiculous. But however bad he might
                        be, Susan felt sure it would be an artistic kind of badness, without
                        vulgarity. He might have reached the stage at which morality ceases to be a
                        conviction, a matter of conscience, and becomes a matter of preference, of
                        tastes—and he surely had good taste in conduct no less than in
                        dress and manner. The woman with him evidently wished to convince him that
                        she loved him, to convince those about her that they were lovers; the man
                        evidently knew exactly what she had in mind—for he was polite,
                        attentive, indifferent, and—Susan suspected—secretly
                        amused.
                    Susan's escort leaned toward her and said in a low tone,
                        "The two at the next table—the woman's Mary
                        Rigsdall, the actress, and the man's Brent, the fellow who writes
                        plays." Then in a less cautious tone, "What are you
                        drinking?"
                    "What are you drinking?" asked Susan,
                        still covertly watching Brent.
                    "You are going to dine with me?"
                    "I've no engagement."
                    "Then let's have Martinis—and I'll go get
                        a table and order dinner while the waiter's bringing
                        them."
                    When Susan was alone, she gazed round the crowded café, at the scores of
                        interesting faces—thrillingly interesting to her after her long
                        sojourn among countenances merely expressing crude elemental appetites  if anything at all beyond toil, anxiety,
                        privation, and bad health. These were the faces of the triumphant
                        class—of those who had wealth or were getting it, fame or were
                        striving for it, of those born to or acquiring position of some sort among
                        the few thousands who lord it over the millions. These were the people among
                        whom she belonged. Why was she having such a savage struggle to attain it?
                        Then, all in an instant the truth she had been so long groping for in vain
                        flung itself at her. None of these women, none of the women of the
                        prosperous classes would be there but for the assistance and protection of
                        the men. She marveled at her stupidity in not having seen the obvious thing
                        clearly long ago. The successful women won their success by disposing of
                        their persons to advantage—by getting the favor of some man of
                        ability. Therefore, she, a woman, must adopt that same policy if she was to
                        have a chance at the things worth while in life. She must make the best
                        bargain—or series of bargains—she could. And as her
                        necessities were pressing she must lose no time. She understood now the
                        instinct that had forced her to fly from South Fifth Avenue, that had
                        overruled her hesitation and had compelled her to accept the good-natured,
                        prosperous man's invitation. . . . There was no other way open to
                        her. She must not evade that fact; she must accept it. Other ways there
                        might be—for other women. But not for her, the outcast without
                        friends or family, the woman alone, with no one to lean upon or to give her
                        anything except in exchange for what she had to offer that was marketable.
                        She must make the bargain she could, not waste time in the folly of awaiting
                        a bargain to her liking. Since she was living in the world and wished to
                        continue to live there, she must accept the world's terms.  To be sad or angry either one because the
                        world did not offer her as attractive terms as it apparently offered many
                        other women—the happy and respected wives and mothers of the
                        prosperous classes, for instance—to rail against that was silly and
                        stupid, was unworthy of her intelligence. She would do as best she could,
                        and move along, keeping her eyes open; and perhaps some day a chance for
                        much better terms might offer—for the best—for such terms
                        as that famous actress there had got. She looked at Mary Rigsdall. An
                        expression in her interesting face—the latent rather than the
                        surface expression—set Susan to wondering whether, if she knew
                        Rigsdall's whole story—or any
                        woman's whole story—she might not see that the world was
                        not bargaining so hardly with her, after all. Or any man's whole
                        story. There her eyes shifted to Rigsdall's companion, the famous
                        playwright of whom she had so often heard Rod and his friends talk.
                    She was startled to find that his gaze was upon her—an all-seeing
                        look that penetrated to the very core of her being. He either did not note
                        or cared nothing about her color of embarrassment. He regarded her steadily
                        until, so she felt, he had seen precisely what she was, had become
                        intimately acquainted with her. Then he looked away. It chagrined her that
                        his eyes did not again turn in her direction; she felt that he had
                        catalogued her as not worth while. She listened to the conversation of the
                        two. The woman did the talking, and her subject was herself—her
                        ability as an actress, her conception of some part she either was about to
                        play or was hoping to play. Susan, too young to have acquired more than the
                        rudiments of the difficult art of character study, even had she had especial
                        talent for it—which she had not—Susan decided that  the famous Rigsdall was as shallow and vain
                        as Rod had said all stage people were.
                    The waiter brought the cocktails and her stout young companion came back,
                        beaming at the thought of the dinner he had painstakingly ordered. As he
                        reached the table he jerked his head in self-approval.
                        "It'll be a good one," said he.
                        "Saturday night dinner—and after—means a lot to
                        me. I work hard all week. Saturday nights I cut loose. Sundays I sleep and
                        get ready to scramble again on Monday for the dollars." He seated
                        himself, leaned toward her with elevated glass. "What
                        name?" inquired he.
                    "Susan."
                    "That's a good old-fashioned name. Makes me see the
                        hollyhocks, and the hens scratching for worms. Mine's Howland.
                        Billy Howland. I came from Mary-land . . . and I'm mighty glad I
                        did. I wouldn't be from anywhere else for worlds, and I
                        wouldn't be there for worlds. Where do you hail from?"
                    "The West," said Susan.
                    "Well, the men in your particular corner out yonder must be a pretty
                        poor lot to have let you leave. I spotted you for mine the minute I saw
                        you—Susan. I hope you're not as quiet as your name.
                        Another cock-tail?"
                    "Thanks."
                    "Like to drink?"
                    "I'm going to do more of it hereafter."
                    "Been laying low for a while—eh?"
                    "Very low," said Susan. Her eyes were sparkling now; the
                        cocktail had begun to stir her long languid blood.
                    "Live with your family?"
                    "I haven't any. I'm free."
                    
                    "On the stage?"
                    "I'm thinking of going on."
                    "And meanwhile?"
                    "Meanwhile—whatever comes."
                    Billy Howland's face was radiant. "I had a date tonight and
                        the lady threw me down. One of those drummer's wives that take in
                        washing to add to the family income while hubby's flirting round
                        the country. This hubby came home unexpectedly. I'm glad he
                        did."
                    He beamed with such whole—souled good—nature that Susan
                        laughed. "Thanks. Same to you," said she.
                    "Hope you're going to do a lot of that laughing,"
                        said he. "It's the best I've heard—such
                        a quiet, gay sound. I sure do have the best luck. Until five years ago there
                        was nothing doing for Billy—hall bedroom—Wheeling
                        stogies—one shirt and two pairs of cuffs a week—not enough
                        to buy a lady an ice-cream soda. All at once—bang! The hoodoo
                        busted, and everything that arrived was for William C. Howland. Better get
                        aboard."
                    "Here I am."
                    "Hold on tight. I pay no attention to the speed laws, and round the
                        corners on two wheels. Do you like good things to eat?"
                    "I haven't eaten for six months."
                    "You must have been out home. Ah!—There's the man
                        to tell us dinner's ready."
                    They finished the second cocktail. Susan was pleased to note that Brent was
                        again looking at her; and she thought—though she suspected it might
                        be the cock-tail—that there was a question in his look—a
                        question about her which he had been unable to answer to his satisfaction.
                        When she and Howland were at one of  the small
                        tables against the wall in the restaurant, she said to him:
                    "You know Mr. Brent?"
                    "The play man? Lord, no. I'm a plain business dub. He
                        wouldn't bother with me. You like that sort of man?"
                    "I want to get on the stage, if I can," was
                        Susan's diplomatic reply.
                    "Well—let's have dinner first. I've
                        ordered champagne, but if you prefer something else—"
                    "Champagne is what I want. I hope it's very
                        dry."
                    Howland's eyes gazed tenderly at her. "I do like a woman
                        who knows the difference between champagne and carbonated sirup. I think you
                        and I've got a lot of tastes in common. I like eating—so
                        do you. I like drinking—so do you. I like a good time—so
                        do you. You're a little bit thin for my taste, but you'll
                        fatten up. I wonder what makes your lips so pale."
                    "I'd hate to remind myself by telling you," said
                        Susan.
                    The restaurant was filling. Most of the men and women were in evening dress.
                        Each arriving woman brought with her a new exhibition of extravagance in
                        costume, diffused a new variety of powerful perfume. The orchestra in the
                        balcony was playing waltzes and the liveliest Hungarian music and the most
                        sensuous strains from Italy and France and Spain. And before her was
                        food!—food again!—not horrible stuff unfit for beasts,
                        worse than was fed to beasts, but human food—good things, well
                        cooked and well served. To have seen her, to have seen the expression of her
                        eyes, without knowing her history and without having lived as she had lived,
                        would have been to think her a glutton. Her spirits giddied toward the
                        ecstatic. She  began to
                        talk—commenting on the people about her—the one subject
                        she could venture with her companion. As she talked and drank, he ate and
                        drank, stuffing and gorging himself, but with a frankness of gluttony that
                        delighted her. She found she could not eat much, but she liked to see
                        eating; she who had so long been seeing only poverty, bolting wretched food
                        and drinking the vilest kinds of whiskey and beer, of alleged coffee and
                        tea—she reveled in Howland's exhibition. She must learn to
                        live altogether in her senses, never to think except about an appetite.
                        Where could she find a better teacher? . . . They drank two quarts of
                        champagne, and with the coffee she took crème de menthe
                        and he brandy. And as the sensuous temperament that springs from intense
                        vitality reasserted itself, the opportunity before her lost all its
                        repellent features, became the bright, vivid countenance of lusty youth,
                        irradiating the joy of living.
                    "I hear there's a lively ball up at Terrace
                        Garden," said he. "Want to go?"
                    "That'll be fine!" cried she.
                    She saw it would have taken nearly all the money she possessed to have paid
                        that bill. About four weeks' wages for one dinner! Thousands of
                        families living for two weeks on what she and he had consumed in two hours!
                        She reached for her half empty champagne glass, emptied it. She must forget
                        all those things! "I've played the fool once.
                        I've learned my lesson. Surely I'll never do it
                        again." As she drank, her eyes chanced upon the clock. Half-past
                        ten. Mrs. Tucker had probably just fallen asleep. And Mrs. Reardon was going
                        out to scrub—going out limping and groaning with rheumatism. No,
                        Mrs. Reardon was lying up at the morgue dead, her one chance to live lost
                        forever.  Dead! Yet better off than Mrs.
                        Tucker lying alive. Susan could see her—the seamed and broken and
                        dirty old remnant of a face—could see the vermin—and the
                        mice—could hear the snoring—the angry grunt and turning
                        over as the insects—
                    "I want another drink—right away," she cried.
                    "Sure!" said Howland. "I need one more,
                        too."
                    They drove in a taxi to Terrace Garden, he holding her in his arms and
                        kissing her with an intoxicated man's enthusiasm. "You
                        certainly are sweet," said he. "The wine on your breath is
                        like flowers. Gosh, but I'm glad that husband came home! Like me a
                        little?"
                    "I'm so happy, I feel like standing up and
                        screaming," declared she.
                    "Good idea," cried he. Whereupon he released a war whoop
                        and they both went off into a fit of hysterical laughter. When it subsided
                        he said, "I sized you up as a live wire the minute I saw you. But
                        you're even better than I thought. What are you in such a good
                        humor about?"
                    "You couldn't understand if I told you," replied
                        she. "You'd have to go and live where I've been
                        living—live there as long as I have."
                    "Convent?"
                    "Worse. Worse than a jail."
                    The ball proved as lively as they hoped. A select company from the Tenderloin
                        was attending, and the regulars were all of the gayest crowd among the sons
                        and daughters of artisans and small merchants up and down the East Side. Not
                        a few of the women were extremely pretty. All, or almost all, were young,
                        and those who on inspection proved to be older than eighteen or twenty were
                        acting younger than the youngest. Everyone had been drinking freely, and  continued to drink. The orchestra played
                        continuously. The air was giddy with laughter and song. Couples hugged and
                        kissed in corners, and finally openly on the dancing floor. For a while
                        Susan and Howland danced together. But soon they made friends with the crowd
                        and danced with whoever was nearest. Toward three in the morning it flashed
                        upon her that she had not even seen him for many a dance. She looked
                        round-searched for him—got a blond-bearded man in evening dress to
                        assist her.
                    "The last seen of your stout friend," this man finally
                        reported, "he was driving away in a cab with a large lady from
                        Broadway. He was asleep, but I guess she wasn't."
                    A sober thought winked into her whirling brain—he had warned her to
                        hold on tight, and she had lost her head—and her opportunity. A bad
                        start—a foolishly bad start. But out winked the glimpse of sobriety
                        and Susan laughed. "That's the last I'll ever see
                        of him," said she.
                    This seemed to give Blond-Beard no regrets. Said he: "Let's
                        you and I have a little supper. I'd call it breakfast, only then we
                        couldn't have champagne."
                    And they had supper—six at the table, all uproarious, Susan with
                        difficulty restrained from a skirt dance on the table up and down among the
                        dishes and bottles. It was nearly five o'clock when she and
                        Blond-Beard helped each other toward a cab.
                    "What's your address?" said he.
                    "The same as yours," replied she drowsily.
                    Late that afternoon she established herself in a room with a bath in West
                        Twenty-ninth Street not far from Broadway. The exterior of the house was
                        dingy and  down-at-the-heel. But the interior
                        was new and scrupulously clean. Several other young women lived there alone
                        also, none quite so well installed as Susan, who had the only private bath
                        and was paying twelve dollars a week. The landlady, frizzled and peroxide,
                        explained—without adding anything to what she already
                        knew—that she could have "privileges," but
                        cautioned her against noise. "I can't stand for
                        it," said she. "First offense—out you go. This
                        house is for ladies, and only gentlemen that know how to conduct themselves
                        as a gentleman should with a lady are allowed to come here."
                    Susan paid a week in advance, reducing to thirty-one dollars her capital
                        which Blond-Beard had increased to forty-three. The young lady who lived at
                        the other end of the hall smiled at her, when both happened to glance from
                        their open doors at the same time. Susan invited her to call and she
                        immediately advanced along the hall in the blue silk kimono she was wearing
                        over her nightgown.
                    "My name's Ida Driscoll," said she, showing a
                        double row of charming white teeth—her chief positive claim to
                        beauty.
                    She was short, was plump about the shoulders but slender in the hips. Her
                        reddish brown hair was neatly done over a big rat, and was so spread that
                        its thinness was hidden well enough to deceive masculine eyes. Nor would a
                        man have observed that one of her white round shoulders was full two inches
                        higher than the other. Her skin was good, her features small and irregular,
                        her eyes shrewd but kindly.
                    "My name's"—Susan
                        hesitated—"Lorna Sackville."
                    "I guess Lorna and Ida'll be enough for us to bother to
                        remember," laughed Miss Driscoll. "The rest's  liable to change. You've just come,
                        haven't you?"
                    "About an hour ago. I've got only a toothbrush, a comb, a
                        washrag and a cake of soap. I bought them on my way here."
                    "Baggage lost—eh?" said Ida, amused.
                    "No," admitted Susan. "I'm beginning an
                        entire new deal."
                    "I'll lend you a nightgown. I'm too short for my
                        other things to fit you."
                    "Oh, I can get along. What's good for a headache?
                        I'm nearly crazy with it."
                    "Wine?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Wait a minute." Ida, with bedroom slippers clattering,
                        hurried back to her room, returned with a bottle of bromo seltzer and in the
                        bathroom fixed Susan a dose. "You'll feel all right in
                        half an hour or so. Gee, but you're swell—with your own
                        bathroom."
                    Susan shrugged her shoulders and laughed.
                    Ida shook her head gravely. "You ought to save your money. I
                        do."
                    "Later—perhaps. Just now—I must
                        have a fling."
                    Ida seemed to understand. She went on to say: "I was in millinery.
                        But in this town there's nothing in anything unless you have
                        capital or a backer. I got tired of working for five per, with ten or
                        fifteen as the top notch. So I quit, kissed my folks up in Harlem good-by
                        and came down to look about. As soon as I've saved enough
                        I'm going to start a business. That'll be about a couple
                        of years—maybe sooner, if I find an angel."
                    "I'm thinking of the stage."
                    "Cut it out!" cried Ida. "It's on the
                        bum. There's more money and less worry in straight
                        sporting—if  you keep respectable. Of
                        course, there's nothing in out and out sporting."
                    "Oh, I haven't decided on anything. My head is
                        better."
                    "Sure! If the dose I gave you don't knock it you can get
                        one at the drug store two blocks up Sixth Avenue that'll do the
                        trick. Got a dinner date?"
                    "No. I haven't anything on hand."
                    "I think you and I might work together," said Ida.
                        "You're thin and tallish. I'm short and fattish.
                        We'd catch 'em coming and going."
                    "That sounds good," said Susan.
                    "You're new to—to the business?"
                    "In a way—yes."
                    "I thought so. We all soon get a kind of a professional look. You
                        haven't got it. Still, so many dead respectable women imitate
                        nowadays, and paint and use loud perfumes, that sporting women
                        aren't nearly so noticeable. Seems to me the men's tastes
                        even for what they want at home are getting louder and louder all the time.
                        They hate anything that looks slow. And in our business it's harder
                        and harder to please them—except the yaps from the little towns and
                        the college boys. A woman has to be up to snuff if she gets on. If she looks
                        what she is, men won't have her—nor if she is what she
                        looks."
                    Susan had not lived where every form of viciousness is openly discussed and
                        practiced, without having learned the things necessary to a full
                        understanding of Ida's technical phrases and references. The
                        liveliness that had come with the departure of the headache vanished. To
                        change the subject she invited Ida to dine with her.
                    "What's the use of your spending money in a
                        restaurant?"  objected Ida.
                        "You eat with me in my room. I always cook myself something when I
                        ain't asked out by some one of my gentleman friends. I can cook you
                        a chop and warm up a can of French peas and some dandy tea biscuits I bought
                        yesterday."
                    Susan accepted the invitation, promising that when she was established she
                        would reciprocate. As it was about six, they arranged to have the dinner at
                        seven, Susan to dress in the meantime. The headache had now gone, even to
                        that last heaviness which seems to be an ominous threat of a return. When
                        she was alone, she threw off her clothes, filled the big bathtub with water
                        as hot as she could stand it. Into this she gently lowered herself until she
                        was able to relax and recline without discomfort. Then she stood up and with
                        the soap and washrag gave herself the most thorough scrubbing of her life.
                        Time after time she soaped and rubbed and scrubbed, and dipped herself in
                        the hot water. When she felt that she had restored her body to some-where
                        near her ideal of cleanness, she let the water run out and refilled the tub
                        with even hotter water. In this she lay luxuriously, reveling in the
                        magnificent sensations of warmth and utter cleanliness. Her eyes closed; a
                        delicious languor stole over her and through her, soothing every nerve. She
                        slept.
                    She was awakened by Ida, who had entered after knocking and calling at the
                        outer door in vain. Susan slowly opened her eyes, gazed at Ida with a soft
                        dreamy smile. "You don't know what this means. It seems to
                        me I was never quite so comfortable or so happy in my life."
                    "It's a shame to disturb you," said Ida.
                        "But dinner's ready. Don't stop to dress first.
                        I'll bring you a kimono."
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    Susan turned on the cold water, and the bath rapidly changed from warm to
                        icy. When she had indulged in the sense of cold as delightful in its way as
                        the sense of warmth, she rubbed her glowing skin with a rough towel until
                        she was rose-red from head to foot. Then she put on stockings, shoes and the
                        pink kimono Ida had brought, and ran along the hall to dinner. As she
                        entered Ida's room, Ida exclaimed, "How sweet and pretty
                        you do look! You sure ought to make a hit!"
                    "I feel like a human being for the first time in—it seems
                        years—ages—to me."
                    "You've got a swell color—except your lips. Have
                        they always been pale like that?"
                    "No."
                    "I thought not. It don't seem to fit in with your style.
                        You ought to touch 'em up. You look too serious and innocent,
                        anyhow. They make a rouge now that'll stick through
                        everything—eating, drinking—anything."
                    Susan regarded herself critically in the glass. "I'll
                        see," she said.
                    The odor of the cooking chops thrilled Susan like music. She drew a chair up
                        to the table, sat in happy-go-lucky fashion, and attacked the chop, the hot
                        biscuit, and the peas, with an enthusiasm that inspired Ida to imitation.
                        "You know how to cook a chop," she said to Ida.
                        "And anybody who can cook a chop right can cook. Cooking's
                        like playing the piano. If you can do the simple things perfectly,
                        you're ready to do anything."
                    "Wait till I have a flat of my own," said Ida.
                        "I'll show you what eating means. And I'll have
                        it, too, before very long. Maybe we'll live together. I was to a
                        fortune teller's yesterday. That's the only way I  waste money. I go to fortune tellers nearly
                        every day. But then all the girls do. You get your money's worth in
                        excitement and hope, whether there's anything in it or not. Well,
                        the fortune teller she said I was to meet a dark, slender person who was to
                        change the whole course of my life—that all my troubles would roll
                        away—and that if any more came, they'd roll away, too. My,
                        but she did give me a swell fortune, and only fifty cents! I'll
                        take you to her."
                    Ida made black coffee and the two girls, profoundly contented, drank it and
                        talked with that buoyant cheerfulness which bubbles up in youth on the
                        slightest pretext. In this case the pretext was anything but slight, for
                        both girls had health as well as youth, had that freedom from harassing
                        responsibility which is the chief charm of every form of unconventional
                        life. And Susan was still in the first flush of the joy of escape from the
                        noisome prison whose poisons had been corroding her, soul and body. No,
                        poison is not a just comparison; what poison in civilization parallels, or
                        even approaches, in squalor, in vileness of food and air, in wretchedness of
                        shelter and clothing, the tenement life that is really the typical life of
                        the city? From time to time Susan, suffused with the happiness that is too
                        deep for laughter, too deep for tears even, gazed round like a dreamer at
                        those cheerful comfortable surroundings and drew a long
                        breath—stealthily, as if she feared she would awaken and be again
                        in South Fifth Avenue, of rags and filth, of hideous toil without hope.
                    "You'd better save your money to put in the millinery
                        business with me," Ida advised. "I can show you how to
                        make a lot. Sometimes I clear as high as a hundred a week, and I
                        don't often fall below seventy-five. 
                        So many girls go about this business in a no-account way, instead of being
                        regular and businesslike."
                    Susan strove to hide the feelings aroused by this practical statement of what
                        lay before her Those feelings filled her with misgiving. Was the lesson
                        still unlearned? Obviously Ida was right; there must be plan, calculation, a
                        definite line laid out and held to, or there could not but be failure and
                        disaster. And yet—Susan's flesh quivered and shrank away.
                        She struggled against it, but she could not conquer it. Experience had
                        apparently been in vain; her character had remained unchanged. . . . She
                        must compel herself. She must do what she had to do; she must not ruin
                        everything by imitating the people of the tenements with their fatal habit
                        of living from day to day only, and taking no thought for the morrow except
                        fatuously to hope and dream that all would be well.
                    While she was fighting with herself, Ida had been talking on—the
                        same subject. When Susan heard again, Ida was saying:
                    "Now, take me, for instance. I don't smoke or drink.
                        There's nothing in either one-especially drink. Of course sometimes
                        a girl's got to drink. A man watches her too close for her to dodge
                        out. But usually you can make him think you're as full as he is,
                        when you really are cold sober."
                    "Do the men always drink when they—come
                        with—with—us?" asked Susan.
                    "Most always. They come because they want to turn themselves loose.
                        That's why a girl's got to be careful not to make a man
                        feel nervous or shy. A respectable woman's game is to be modest and
                        innocent. With us, the opposite. They're both games; one's
                        just as good as the other."
                    
                    "I don't think I could get along at all—at
                        this," confessed Susan with an effort, "unless I drank too
                        much—so that I was reckless and didn't care what
                        happened."
                    Ida. looked directly into her eyes; Susan's glance fell and a flush
                        mounted. After a pause Ida went on:
                    "A girl does feel that way at first. A girl that marries as most of
                        them do—because the old ones are pushing her out of the nest and
                        she's got no place else to go—she feels the same way till
                        she hardens to it. Of course, you've got to get broke into any
                        business."
                    "Go on," said Susan eagerly. "You are so sensible.
                        You must teach me."
                    "Common sense is a thing you don't often
                        hear—especially about getting on in the world. But, as I was
                        saying—one of my gentlemen friends is a lawyer—such a nice
                        fellow—so liberal. Gives me a present of twenty or
                        twenty-five—extra, you understand—every time he makes a
                        killing downtown. He asked me once how I felt when I started in; and when I
                        told him, he said, 'That's exactly the way I felt the
                        first time I won a case for a client I knew was a dirty rascal and in the
                        wrong. But now—I take that sort of thing as easy as you
                        do.' He says the thing is to get on, no matter how, and that one
                        way's as good as another. And he's mighty right. You soon
                        learn that in little old New York, where you've got to have the
                        mon. or you get the laugh and the foot—the swift, hard kick. Clean
                        up after you've arrived, he says—and don't try to
                        keep clean while you're working—and don't stop
                        for baths and things while you're at the job."
                    Susan was listening with every faculty she possessed.
                    "He says he talks the other sort of thing—the
                        dope—the fake stuff—just as the rest of the hustlers do.
                             He says it's necessary in order
                        to keep the people fooled—that if they got wise to the real way to
                        succeed, then there'd be nobody to rob and get rich off of. Oh,
                        he's got it right. He's a smart one."
                    The sad, bitter expression was strong in Susan's face.
                    After a pause, Ida went on: "If a girl's an ignorant fool
                        or squeamish, she don't get up in this business any more than in
                        any other. But if she keeps a cool head, and don't take lovers
                        unless they pay their way, and don't drink, why she can keep her
                        self—respect and not have to take to the streets."
                    Susan lifted her head eagerly. "Don't have to take to the
                        streets?" she echoed.
                    "Certainly not," declared Ida. "I very seldom let
                        a man pick me up after dark—unless he looks mighty good. I go out
                        in the daytime. I pretend I'm an actress out of a job for the time
                        being, or a forelady in a big shop who's taking a day or so off, or
                        a respectable girl living with her parents. I put a lot of money into
                        clothes—quiet, ladylike clothes. Mighty good investment. If you
                        ain't got clothes in New York you can't do any kind of
                        business. I go where a nice class of men hangs out, and I never act bold,
                        but just flirt timidly, as so many respectable girls or semi-respectables
                        do. But when a girl plays that game, she has to be careful not to make a man
                        think he ain't expected to pay. The town's choked full of
                        men on the lookout for what they call love—which means, for
                        something cheap or, better still, free. Men are just crazy about themselves.
                        Nothing easier than to fool 'em—and nothing's
                        harder than to make 'em think you ain't stuck on
                        'em. I tell you, a girl in our life has a chance to learn men. They
                        turn themselves inside out to us."
                    Susan, silent, her thoughts flowing like a mill race,  helped Ida with the dishes. Then they dressed and went
                        together for a walk. It being Sunday evening, the streets were quiet. They
                        sauntered up Fifth Avenue as far as Fifty-ninth Street and back.
                        Ida's calm and sensible demeanor gave Susan much needed courage
                        every time a man spoke to them. None of these men happened to be up to
                        Ida's standard, which was high.
                    "No use wasting time on snide people," explained she.
                        "We don't want drinks and a gush of loose talk, and I saw
                        at a glance that was all those chappies were good for."
                    They returned home at half-past nine without adventure. Toward midnight one
                        of Ida's regulars called and Susan was free to go to bed. She slept
                        hardly at all. Ever before her mind hovered a nameless, shapeless horror.
                        And when she slept she dreamed of her wedding night, woke herself screaming,
                        "Please, Mr. Ferguson—please!"
                    Ida had three chief sources of revenue.
                    The best was five men—her "regular gentleman
                        friends"—who called by appointment from time to time.
                        These paid her ten dollars apiece, and occasionally gave her presents of
                        money or jewelry—nothing that amounted to much. From them she
                        averaged about thirty-five dollars a week. Her second source was a Mrs.
                        Thurston who kept in West Fifty-sixth Street near Ninth Avenue a
                        furnished-room house of the sort that is on the official—and also
                        the "revenue"—lists of the police and the
                        anti-vice societies. This lady had a list of girls and married women upon
                        whom she could call. Gentlemen using her house for rendezvous were sometimes
                        disappointed by the ladies with whom they were intriguing. Again a gentleman
                        grew a little weary of his perhaps too respectable or too sincerely loving
                             ladylove and appealed to Mrs. Thurston.
                        She kept her list of availables most select and passed them off as women of
                        good position willing to supplement a small income, or to punish stingy
                        husbands or fathers and at the same time get the money they needed for dress
                        and bridge, for matinées and lunches. Mrs. Thurston insisted—and
                        Ida was inclined to believe—that there were genuine cases of this
                        kind on the list.
                    "It's mighty hard for women with expensive tastes and small
                        means to keep straight in New York," said she to Susan.
                        "It costs so much to live, and there are so many ways to spend
                        money. And they always have rich lady friends who set an extravagant pace.
                        They've got to dress—and to kind of keep up their end.
                        So—" Ida laughed, went on: "Besides the city
                        women are getting so they like a little sporty novelty as much as their
                        brothers and husbands and fathers do. Oh, I'm not ashamed of my
                        business any more. We're as good as the others, and we're
                        not hypocrites. As my lawyer friend says, everybody's got to make a
                            good living, and good livings can't be made
                        on the ways that used to be called on the level—they're
                        called damfool ways now."
                    Ida's third source of income was to her the most attractive because
                        it had such a large gambling element in it. This was her flirtations as a
                        respectable woman in search of lively amusement and having to take care not
                        to be caught. There are women of all kinds who delight in deceiving men
                        because it gives them a sweet stealthy sense of superiority to the
                        condescending sex. In women of the Ida class this pleasure becomes as much a
                        passion as it is in the respectable woman whom her husband tries to enslave.
                        With Susan, another woman and one in need of education, Ida was simple and
                        scrupulously truthful. But it would have been impossible  for a man to get truth as to anything from
                        her. She amused herself inventing plausible romantic stories about herself
                        that she might enjoy the gullibility of the boastfully superior and
                        patronizing male. She was devoid of sentiment, even of passion. Yet at times
                        she affected both in the most extreme fashion. And afterward, with peals of
                        laughter, she would describe to Susan how the man had acted, what an ass she
                        had made of him.
                    "Men despise us," she said. "But it's
                        nothing to the way I despise them. The best of them are rotten beasts when
                        they show themselves as they are. And they haven't any mercy on us.
                        It's too ridiculous. Men despise a man who is virtuous and a woman
                        who isn't. What rot!"
                    She deceived the "regulars" without taking the trouble to
                        remember her deceptions. They caught her lying so often that she knew they
                        thought her untruthful through and through. But this only gave her an
                        opportunity for additional pleasure—the pleasure of inventing lies
                        that they would believe in spite of their distrust of her.
                        "Anyhow," said she, "haven't you noticed
                        the liars everybody's on to are always believed and truthful people
                        are doubted?"
                    Upon the men with whom she flirted, she practiced the highly colored romances
                        it would have been useless to try upon the regulars. Her greatest triumph at
                        this game was a hard luck story she had told so effectively that the man had
                        given her two hundred dollars. Most of her romances turned about her own
                        ruin. As a matter of fact, she had told Susan the exact truth when she said
                        she had taken up her mode of life deliberately; she had grown weary and
                        impatient of the increasing poverty of a family which, like so many of  the artisan and small merchant and
                        professional classes in this day of concentrating wealth and spreading
                        tastes for comfort and luxury, was on its way down from comfort toward or
                        through the tenements. She was a type of the recruits that are swelling the
                        prostitute class in ever larger numbers and are driving the prostitutes of
                        the tenement class toward starvation—where they once dominated the
                        profession even to its highest ranks, even to the fashionable cocottes who prey upon the second generation of the rich. But Ida
                        never told her lovers her plain and commonplace tale of yielding to the
                        irresistible pressure of economic forces. She had made men weep at her
                        recital of her wrongs. It had even brought her offers of
                        marriage—none, however, worth accepting.
                    "I'd be a boob to marry a man with less than fifteen or
                        twenty thousand a year, wouldn't I?" said she.
                        "Why, two of the married men who come to see me regularly give me
                        more than they give their wives for pin money. And in a few years
                        I'll be having my own respectable business, with ten thousand
                        income—maybe more—and as well thought of as the next
                        woman."
                    Ida's dream was a house in the country, a fine flat in town, a
                        husband in some "refined" profession and children at
                        high-class schools. "And I'll get there, don't
                        you doubt it!" exclaimed she. "Others have—of
                        course, you don't know about them—they've looked
                        out for that. Yes, lots of others have—but—well, just you
                        watch your sister Ida."
                    And Susan felt that she would indeed arrive. Already she had seen that there
                        was no difficulty such as she had once imagined about recrossing the line to
                        respectability. The only real problem in that matter was how to get together
                        enough to make the crossing worth 
                        while—for what was there in respectability without money, in a day
                        when respectability had ceased to mean anything but money?
                    Ida wished to take her to Mrs. Thurston and get her a favored place on the
                        list. Susan thanked her, but said, "Not yet—not quite
                        yet." Ida suggested that they go out together as two young married
                        women whose husbands had gone on the road. Susan put her off from day to
                        day. Ida finally offered to introduce her to one of the regulars:
                        "He's a nice fellow—knows how to treat a lady in
                        a gentlemanly way. Not a bit coarse or familiar." Susan would not
                        permit this generosity. And all this time her funds were sinking. She had
                        paid a second week's rent, had bought cooking apparatus, some food
                        supplies, some necessary clothing. She was down to a five-dollar bill and a
                        little change.
                    "Look here, Lorna," said Ida, between remonstrance and
                        exasperation, "when are you going to start
                        in?"
                    Susan looked fixedly at her, said with a slow smile, "When I
                        can't hold out another minute."
                    Ida tossed her head angrily. "You've got
                        brains—more than I have," she cried.
                        "You've got every advantage for catching rich
                        men—even a rich husband. You're educated. You speak and
                        act and look refined. Why you could pretend to be a howling fashionable
                        swell. You've got all the points. But what have you got
                        'em for? Not to use—that's certain."
                    "You can't be as disgusted with me as I am."
                    "If you're going to do a thing, why, do
                        it!"
                    "That's what I tell myself. But—I can't
                        make a move."
                    Ida gave a gesture of despair. "I don't see what's
                        to become of you. And you could do so well! . . . Let  me phone Mr. Sterling. I told him about you.
                        He's anxious to meet you. He's fond of books—like
                        you. You'd like him. He'd give up a lot to you, because
                        you're classier than I am."
                    Susan threw her arms round Ida and kissed her. "Don't
                        bother about me," she said. "I've got to act in
                        my own foolish, stupid way. I'm like a child going to school.
                        I've got to learn a certain amount before I'm ready to do
                        whatever it is I'm going to do. And until I learn it, I
                        can't do much of anything. I thought I had learned in the last few
                        months. I see I haven't."
                    "Do listen to sense, Lorna," pleaded Ida. "If you
                        wait till the last minute, you'll get left. The time to get the
                        money's when you have money. And I've a feeling that
                        you're not particularly flush."
                    "I'll do the best I can. And I can't move till
                        I'm ready."
                    Meanwhile she continued to search for work—work that would enable
                        her to live decently, wages less degrading than the wages
                        of shame. In a newspaper she read an advertisement of a theatrical agency.
                        Advertisements of all kinds read well; those of theatrical agencies
                        read—like the fairy tales that they were. However, she found in
                        this particular offering of dazzling careers and salaries a peculiar
                        phrasing that decided her to break the rule she had made after having
                        investigated scores of this sort of offers.
                    Rod was abroad; anyhow, enough time had elapsed. One of the most impressive
                        features of the effect of New York—meaning by "New
                        York" only that small but significant portion of the four millions
                        that thinks—at least, after a fashion, and acts, instead of being
                        mere passive tools of whatever happens to turn up—the most familiar
                        notable effect of this New York is  the speedy
                        distinction in the newcomer of those illusions and delusions about life and
                        about human nature, about good and evil, that are for so many people the
                        most precious and the only endurable and beautiful thing in the world. New
                        York, destroyer of delusions and cherished hypocrisies and pretenses,
                        therefore makes the broadly intelligent of its citizens hardy, makes the
                        others hard—and between the hardy and hard, between sense and
                        cynicism, yawns a gulf like that between Absalom and Dives. Susan a New
                        Yorker now, had got the habit—in thought, at least—of
                        seeing things with somewhat less distortion from the actual. She no longer
                        exaggerated the importance of the Rod-Susan episode. She saw that in New
                        York, where life is crowded with events, everything in one's life,
                        except death, becomes incident, becomes episode, where in regions offering
                        less to think about each rare happening took on an aspect of vast
                        importance. The Rod-Susan love adventure, she now saw, was not what it would
                        have seemed—therefore, would have been—in Sutherland, but
                        was mere episode of a New York life, giving its light and shade to a certain
                        small part of the long, variedly patterned fabric of her life, and of his,
                        not determining the whole. She saw that it was simply like a bend in the
                        river, giving a new turn to current and course but not changing the river
                        itself, and soon left far behind and succeeded by other bends giving each
                        its equal or greater turn to the stream.
                    Rod had passed from her life, and she from his life. Thus she was free to
                        begin her real career—the stage—if she could. She went to
                        the suite of offices tenanted by Mr. Josiah Ransome. She was ushered in to
                        Ransome himself, instead of halting with underlings. She owed this favor to
                        advantages which her lack of vanity  and of
                        self-consciousness prevented her from surmising. Ransome—smooth,
                        curly, comfortable looking—received her with a delicate blending of
                        the paternal and the gallant. After he had inspected her exterior with
                        flattering attentiveness and had investigated her qualifications with a
                        thoroughness that was convincing of sincerity he said:
                    "Most satisfactory! I can make you an exceptional assurance. If you
                        register with me, I can guarantee you not less than twenty-five a
                        week."
                    Susan hesitated long and asked many questions before she
                        finally—with reluctance—paid the five dollars. She felt
                        ashamed of her distrust, but might perhaps have persisted in it had not Mr.
                        Ransome said:
                    "I don't blame you for hesitating, my dear young lady. And
                        if I could I'd put you on my list without payment. But you can see
                        how unbusinesslike that would be. I am a substantial, old-established
                        concern. You—no doubt you are perfectly reliable. But I have been
                        fooled so many times. I must not let myself forget that after all I know
                        nothing about you."
                    As soon as Susan had paid he gave her a list of vaudeville and musical comedy
                        houses where girls were wanted. "You can't fail to suit
                        one of them," said he. "If not, come back here and get
                        your money."
                    After two weary days of canvassing she went back to Ransome. He was just
                        leaving. But he smiled genially, opened his desk and seated himself.
                        "At your service," said he. "What
                        luck?"
                    "None," replied Susan. "I couldn't live
                        on the wages they offered at the musical comedy places, even if I could get
                        placed."
                    "And the vaudeville people?"
                    "When I said I could only sing and not dance, they  looked discouraged. When I said I had no
                        costumes they turned me down."
                    "Excellent!" cried Ransome. "You mustn't
                        be so easily beaten. You must take dancing lessons—perhaps a few
                        singing lessons, too. And you must get some costumes."
                    "But that means several hundred dollars."
                    "Three or four hundred," said Ransome airily. "A
                        matter of a few weeks."
                    "But I haven't anything like that," said Susan.
                        "I haven't so much as—"
                    "I comprehend perfectly," interrupted Ransome. She
                        interested him, this unusual looking girl, with her attractive mingling of
                        youth and experience. Her charm that tempted people to give her at once the
                        frankest confidences, moved him to go out of his way to help her.
                        "You haven't the money," he went on.
                        "You must have it. So—I promised to place you, and I will.
                        I don't usually go so far in assisting my clients. It's
                        not often necessary—and where it's necessary it's
                        usually imprudent. However—I'll give you the address of a
                        flat where there is a lady—a trustworthy, square sort, despite
                        her—her profession. She will put you in the way of getting on a
                        sound financial basis."
                    Ransome spoke in a matter-of-fact tone, like a man stating a simple business
                        proposition. Susan understood. She rose. Her expression was neither shock
                        nor indignation; but it was none the less a negative.
                    "It's the regular thing, my dear," urged Ransome.
                        "To make a start, to get in right, you can't afford to be
                        squeamish. The way I suggest is the simplest and most direct of several that
                        all involve the same thing. And the surest. You look
                        steady-headed—self-reliant. You look
                        sensible—"
                    
                    Susan smiled rather forlornly. "But I'm not," said
                        she. "Not yet."
                    Ransome regarded her with a sympathy which she felt was genuine.
                        "I'm sorry, my dear. I've done the best I can for
                        you. You may think it a very poor best—and it is.
                        But"—he shrugged his shoulders—"I
                        didn't make this world and its conditions for living. I may say
                        also that I'm not the responsible party—the party in
                        charge. However—"
                    To her amazement he held out a five-dollar bill. "Here's
                        your fee back." He laughed at her expression. "Oh,
                        I'm not a robber," said he. "I only wish I could
                        serve you. I didn't think you were so—" his eyes
                        twinkled—"so unreasonable, let us say. Among those who
                        don't know anything about life there's an impression that
                        my sort of people are in the business of dragging women down. Perhaps one of
                        us occasionally does as bad—about a millionth part as
                        bad—as the average employer of labor who skims his profits from the
                        lifeblood of his employees. But as a rule we folks merely take those that
                        are falling and help them to light easy—or even to get up
                        again."
                    Susan felt ashamed to take her money. But he pressed it on her.
                        "You'll need it," said he. "I know how
                        it is with a girl alone and trying to get a start. Perhaps later on
                        you'll be more in the mood where I can help you."
                    "Perhaps," said Susan.
                    "But I hope not. It'll take uncommon luck to pull you
                        through—and I hope you'll have it."
                    "Thank you," said Susan. He took her hand, pressed it
                        friendlily—and she felt that he was a man with real good in him,
                        more good than many who would have shrunk from him in horror.
                    
                    She was waiting for a thrust from fate. But fate, disappointing as usual,
                        would not thrust. It seemed bent on the malicious pleasure of compelling her
                        to degrade herself deliberately and with calculation, like a woman marrying
                        for support a man who refuses to permit her to decorate with any artificial
                        floral concealments of faked-up sentiment the sordid truth as to what she is
                        about. She searched within herself in vain for the scruple or sentiment or
                        timidity or whatever it was that held her back from the course that was
                        plainly inevitable. She had got down to the naked fundamentals of decency
                        and indecency that are deep hidden by, and for most of us under, hypocrisies
                        of conventionality. She had found out that a decent woman was one who
                        respected her body and her soul, that an indecent woman was one who did not,
                        and that marriage rites or the absence of them, the absence of financial or
                        equivalent consideration, or its presence, or its extent or its form, were
                        all irrelevant non-essentials. Yet—she hesitated, knowing the while
                        that she was risking a greater degradation, and a stupid and fatal folly to
                        boot, by shrinking from the best course open to her—unless it were
                        better to take a dose of poison and end it all. She probably would have done
                        that had she not been so utterly healthy, therefore overflowing with
                        passionate love of life. Except in fiction suicide and health do not go
                        together, however superhumanly sensitive the sore beset hero or heroine.
                        Susan was sensitive enough; whenever she did things incompatible with our
                        false and hypocritical and unscientific notions of sensitiveness, allowances
                        should be made for her because of her superb and dauntless health. If her
                        physical condition had been morbid, her conduct might have been, would have
                        been, very different.
                    
                    She was still hesitating when Saturday night came round
                        again—swiftly despite long disheartening days, and wakeful awful
                        nights. In the morning her rent would be due. She had a dollar and
                        forty-five cents.
                    After dinner alone—a pretense at dinner—she wandered the
                        streets of the old Tenderloin until midnight. An icy rain was falling. Rains
                        such as this—any rains except showers—were rare in the
                        City of the Sun. That rain by itself was enough to make her downhearted. She
                        walked with head down and umbrella close to her shoulders. No one spoke to
                        her. She returned dripping; she had all but ruined her one dress. She went
                        to bed, but not to sleep. About nine—early for that
                        house—she rose, drank a cup of coffee and ate part of a roll. Her
                        little stove and such other things as could not be taken along she rolled
                        into a bundle, marked it, "For Ida." On a scrap of paper
                        she wrote this note:
                    Don't think I'm ungrateful, please. I'm going
                        without saying good-by because I'm afraid if I saw you,
                        you'd be generous enough to put up for me, and I'd be weak
                        enough to accept. And if I did that, I'd never be able to get
                        strong or even to hold my head up. So—good-by. I'll learn
                        sooner or later—learn how to live. I hope it won't be too
                        long—and that the teacher won't be too hard on me.
                    Yes, I'll learn, and I'll buy fine hats at your grand
                        millinery store yet. Don't forget me altogether.
                    She tucked this note into the bundle and laid it against the door behind
                        which Ida and one of her regulars were sleeping peacefully. The odor of
                        Ida's powerful perfume came through the cracks in the door; Susan
                        drew it eagerly into her nostrils, sobbed softly, turned away. It was one of
                        the perfumes classed as immoral; to Susan it was the aroma of a friendship
                        as noble, as  disinterested, as generous, as
                        human sympathy had ever breathed upon human woe. With her few personal
                        possessions in a package she descended the stairs unnoticed, went out into
                        the rain. At the corner of Sixth Avenue she paused, looked up and down the
                        street. It was almost deserted. Now and then a streetwalker, roused early by
                        a lover with perhaps a family waiting for him, hurried by, looking piteous
                        in the daylight which showed up false and dyed hair, the layers of paint,
                        the sad tawdriness of battered finery from the cheapest bargain troughs.
                    Susan went slowly up Sixth Avenue. Two blocks, and she saw a girl enter the
                        side door of a saloon across the way. She crossed the street, pushed in at
                        the same door, went on to a small sitting-room with blinds drawn, with round
                        tables, on every table a match stand. It was one of those places where
                        streetwalkers rest their weary legs between strolls, and sit for company on
                        rainy or snowy nights, and take shy men for sociability-breeding drinks and
                        for the preliminary bargaining. The air of the room was strong with stale
                        liquor and tobacco, the lingering aroma of the night's vanished
                        revels. In the far corner sat the girl she had followed; a glass of raw
                        whiskey and another of water stood on the table before her. Susan seated
                        herself near the door and when the swollen-faced, surly bartender came,
                        ordered whiskey. She poured herself a drink—filled the glass to the
                        brim. She drank it in two gulps, set the empty glass down. She shivered like
                        an animal as it is hit in the head with a poleax. The mechanism of life
                        staggered, hesitated, went on with a sudden leaping acceleration of pace.
                        Susan tapped her glass against the matchstand. The bartender came.
                    "Another," said she.
                    
                    The man stared at her. "The—hell!" he ejaculated.
                        "You must be afraid o' catchin' cold. Or maybe
                        you're looking for the menagerie?"
                    Susan laughed and so did the girl in the corner. "Won't you
                        have a drink with me?" asked Susan.
                    "That's very kind of you," replied the girl, in
                        the manner of one eager to show that she, too, is a perfect lady in every
                        respect, used to the ways of the best society. She moved to a chair at
                        Susan's table.
                    She and Susan inventoried each other. Susan saw a mere child—hardly
                        eighteen—possibly not seventeen—but much worn by drink and
                        irregular living—evidently one of those who rush into the fast
                        woman's life with the idea that it is a career of
                        gayety—and do not find out their error until looks and health are
                        gone. Susan drank her second drink in three gulps, several minutes apart.
                        The girl was explaining in a thin, common voice, childish yet cracked, that
                        she had come there seeking a certain lady friend because she had an extra
                        man and needed a side partner.
                    "Suppose you come with me," she suggested.
                        "It's good money, I think. Want to get next?"
                    "When I've had another drink," said Susan. Her
                        eyes were gorgeously brilliant. She had felt almost as reckless several
                        times before; but never had she felt this devil-may-care eagerness to see
                        what the turn of the next card would bring. "You'll take
                        one?"
                    "Sure. I feel like the devil. Been bumming round all night. My lady
                        friend that I had with me—a regular lady friend—she was
                        suddenly took ill. Appendicitis complicated with d.t.'s the
                        ambulance guy said. The boys are waiting for me to come back, so's
                        we can go on. They've got some swell rooms in a hotel up in
                        Forty-second Street. Let's get a move on."
                    
                    The bartender served the third drink and Susan paid for them, the other girl
                        insisting on paying for the one she was having when Susan came.
                        Susan's head was whirling. Her spirits were spiraling up and up.
                        Her pale lips were wreathed in a reckless smile. She felt courageous for
                        adventure—any adventure. Her capital had now sunk to three quarters
                        and a five-cent piece. They issued forth, talking without saying anything,
                        laughing without knowing or caring why. Life was a joke—a coarse,
                        broad joke—but amusing if one drank enough to blunt any refinement
                        of sensibility. And what was sensibility but a kind of snobbishness? And
                        what more absurd than snobbishness in an outcast?
                    "That's good whiskey they had, back there," said
                        Susan.
                    "Good? Yes—if you don't care what you
                        say."
                    "If you don't want to care what you say or do,"
                        explained Susan.
                    "Oh, all booze is good for that," said the girl.
                
                
                
                    VI
                    
                        THEY went through to Broadway and there stood waiting for
                        a car, each under her own umbrella. "Holy Gee!" cried
                        Susan's new acquaintance. "Ain't this rain a
                        soaker?"
                    It was coming in sheets, bent and torn and driven horizontally by the wind.
                        The umbrella, sheltering the head somewhat, gave a wholly false impression
                        of protection. Both girls were soon sopping wet. But they were more than
                        cheerful about it; the whiskey made them indifferent to external ills as
                        they warmed themselves by its bright fire. At that time a famous and much
                        envied, admired and respected "captain of industry,"
                        having looted the street-car systems, was preparing to loot them over again
                        by the familiar trickery of the receivership and the reorganization. The
                        masses of the people were too ignorant to know what was going on; the
                        classes were too busy, each man of each of them, about his own personal
                        schemes for graft of one kind and another. Thus, the street-car service was
                        a joke and a disgrace. However, after four or five minutes a north-bound car
                        appeared.
                    "But it won't stop," cried Susan.
                        "It's jammed."
                    "That's why it will stop," replied her new
                        acquaintance. "You don't suppose a New York
                        conductor'd miss a chance to put his passengers more on the bum
                        than ever?"
                    She was right, at least as to the main point; and the conductor with much
                        free handling of their waists and shoulders added them to the dripping,
                        straining press  of passengers, enduring the
                        discomforts the captain of industry put upon them with more patience than
                        cattle would have exhibited in like circumstances. All the way up Broadway
                        the new acquaintance enlivened herself and Susan and the men they were
                        squeezed in among by her loud gay sallies which her young prettiness made
                        seem witty. And certainly she did have an amazing and amusing acquaintance
                        with the slang at the moment current. The worn look had vanished, her
                        rounded girlhood freshness had returned. As for Susan, you would hardly have
                        recognized her as the same person who had issued from the house in
                        Twenty-ninth Street less than an hour before. Indeed, it was not the same
                        person. Drink nervifies every character; here it transformed, suppressing
                        the characteristics that seemed, perhaps were, essential in her normal
                        state, and causing to bloom in sudden audacity of color and form the
                        passions and gayeties at other times subdued by her intelligence and her
                        sensitiveness. Her brilliant glance moved about the car full as boldly as
                        her companion's. But there was this difference: Her companion gazed
                        straight into the eyes of the men; Susan's glance shot past above
                        or just below their eyes.
                    As they left the car at Forty-second Street the other girl gave her short
                        skirt a dexterous upward flirt that exhibited her legs almost to the hips.
                        Susan saw that they were well shaped legs, surprisingly plump from the
                        calves upward, considering the slightness of her figure above the waist.
                    "I always do that when I leave a car," said the girl.
                        "Sometimes it starts something on the trail. You forgot your
                        package—back in the saloon!"
                    "Then I didn't forget much," laughed Susan. It  appealed to her, the idea of entering the new
                        life empty-handed.
                    The hotel was one that must have been of the first class in its
                        day—not a distant day, for the expansion of New York in craving for
                        showy luxury has been as sudden as the miraculous upward thrust of a steel
                        skyscraper. It had now sunk to relying upon the trade of those who came in
                        off Broadway for a few minutes. It was dingy and dirty; the walls and
                        plastering were peeling; the servants were slovenly and fresh. The girl
                        nodded to the evil-looking man behind the desk, who said:
                    "Hello, Miss Maud. Just in time. The boys were sending out for some
                        others."
                    "They've got a nerve!" laughed Maud. And she led
                        Susan down a rather long corridor to a door with the letter B upon it. Maud
                        explained: "This is the swellest suite in the
                        house—parlor, bedroom, bath." She flung open the door,
                        disclosing a sitting-room in disorder with two young men partly dressed,
                        seated at a small table on which were bottles, siphons, matches, remains of
                        sandwiches, boxes of cigarettes—a chaotic jumble of implements to
                        dissipation giving forth a powerful, stale odor. Maud burst into a stream of
                        picturesque profanity which set the two men to laughing. Susan had paused on
                        the threshold. The shock of this scene had for the moment arrested the
                        triumphant march of the alcohol through blood and nerve and brain.
                    "Oh, bite it off!" cried the darker of the two men to Maud,
                        "and have a drink. Ain't you ashamed to speak so free
                        before your innocent young lady friend?" He grinned at Susan.
                        "What Sunday school do you hail from?" inquired he.
                    
                    The other young man was also looking at Susan; and it was an arresting and
                        somewhat compelling gaze. She saw that he was tall and well set up. As he
                        was dressed only in trousers and a pale blue silk undershirt, the strength
                        of his shoulders, back and arms was in full evidence. His figure was like
                        that of the wonderful young prize-fighters she had admired at moving picture
                        shows to which Drumley had taken her. He had a singularly handsome face,
                        blond yet remotely suggesting Italian. He smiled at Susan and she thought
                        she had never seen teeth more beautiful—pearl-white, regular, even.
                        His eyes were large and sensuous; smiling though they were, Susan was ill at
                        ease—for in them there shone the same untamed, uncontrolled
                        ferocity that one sees in the eyes of a wild beast. His youth, his good
                        looks, his charm made the sinister savagery hinted in the smile the more
                        disconcerting. He poured whiskey from a bottle into each of the two tall
                        glasses, filled them up with seltzer, extended one toward Susan.
                    "Shut the door, Queenie," he said to her in a pleasant tone
                        that subtly mingled mockery and admiration. "And let's
                        drink to love."
                    "Didn't I do well for you, Freddie?" cried
                        Maud.
                    "She's my long-sought affinity," declared Freddie
                        with the same attractive mingling of jest and flattery.
                    Susan closed the door, accepted the glass, laughed into his eyes. The whiskey
                        was once more asserting its power. She took about half the drink before she
                        set the glass down.
                    The young man said, "You name's Queenie, mine's
                        Freddie." He came to her, holding her gaze fast by the piercing
                        look from his handsome eyes. He put his arms round her and kissed her full
                        upon the pale, laughing lips. His eyes were still smiling in pleasant
                        mockery;  yet his kiss burned and stung, and
                        the grip of his arm round her shoulders made her vaguely afraid. Her smile
                        died away. The grave, searching, wondering expression reappeared in the
                        violet-gray eyes for a moment.
                    "You're all right," said he. "Except
                        those pale lips. You're going to be my girl. That means, if you
                        ever try to get away from me—unless I let you
                        go—I'll kill you—or worse." And he
                        laughed as if he had made the best joke in the world. But she saw in his
                        eyes a sparkle that seemed to her to have something of the malignance of the
                        angry serpent's.
                    She hastily finished her drink.
                    Maud was jerking off her clothes, crying, "I want to get out of
                        these nasty wet rags." The steam heat was full on; the
                        sitting-room, the whole suite, was intensely warm. Maud hung her skirt over
                        the back of a chair close to the radiator, took off her shoes and stockings
                        and put them to dry also. In her chemise she curled herself on a chair, lit
                        a cigarette and poured a drink. Her feet were not bad, but neither were they
                        notably good; she tucked them out of sight. She looked at Susan.
                        "Get off those wet things," urged she, "or
                        you'll take your death."
                    "In a minute," said Susan, but not convincingly.
                    Freddie forced another drink and a cigarette upon her. As a girl at home in
                        Sutherland, she had several times—she and Ruth—smoked
                        cigarettes in secrecy, to try the new London and New York fashion, announced
                        in the newspapers and the novels. So the cigarette did not make her
                        uncomfortable. "Look at the way she's holding
                        it?" cried Maud, and she and the men burst out laughing. Susan
                        laughed also and, Freddie helping, practiced a less inexpert manner. Jim,
                        the dark  young man with the sullen heavy
                        countenance, rang for more sandwiches and another bottle of whiskey. Susan
                        continued to drink but ate nothing.
                    "Have a sandwich," said Freddie.
                    "I'm not hungry."
                    "Well, they say that to eat and drink means to die of paresis, while
                        to only drink means dying of delirium tremens. I guess you're
                        right. I'd prefer the d.t.'s. It's quicker and
                        livelier."
                    Jim sang a ribald song with some amusing comedy business. Maud told several
                        stories whose only claim to point lay in their frankness about things not
                        usually spoken. "Don't you tell any more,
                        Maudie," advised Freddie. "Why is it that a woman never
                        takes up a story until every man on earth has heard it at least
                        twice?" The sandwiches disappeared, the second bottle of whiskey
                        ran low. Maud told story after story of how she had played this man and that
                        for a sucker—was as full of such tales and as joyous and
                        self-pleased over them as an honest salesman telling his delighted,
                        respectable, pew-holding employer how he has "stuck" this
                        customer and that for a "fancy" price. Presently Maud
                        again noticed that Susan was in her wet clothes and cried out about it.
                        Susan pretended to start to undress. Freddie and Jim suddenly seized her.
                        She struggled, half laughing; the whiskey was sending into her brain
                        dizzying clouds. She struggled more fiercely. But it was in vain.
                    "Gee, you have got a prize, Freddie!"
                        exclaimed Jim at last, angry. "A regular tartar!"
                    "A damn handsome one," retorted Freddie.
                        "She's even got feet."
                    Susan, amid the laughter of the others, darted for the bedroom. Cowering in a
                        corner, trying to cover  herself, she ordered
                        Freddie to leave her. He laughed, seized her in his iron grip. She struck at
                        him, bit him in the shoulder. He gave a cry of pain and drove a savage blow
                        into her cheek. Then he buried his fingers in her throat and the gleam of
                        his eyes made her soul quail.
                    "Don't kill me!" she cried, in the clutch of
                        cowardice for the first time. It was not death that she feared but the
                        phantom of things worse than death that can be conjured to the imagination
                        by the fury of a personality which is utterly reckless and utterly cruel.
                        "Don't kill me!" she shrieked.
                    "What the hell are you doing?" shouted Jim from the other
                        room.
                    "Shut that door," replied Freddie. "I'm
                        going to attend to my lady friend."
                    As the door slammed, he dragged Susan by the throat and one arm to the bed,
                        flung her down. "I saw you were a high stepper the minute I looked
                        at you," said he, in a pleasant, cooing voice that sent the chills
                        up and down her spine. "I knew you'd have to be broke.
                        Well, the sooner it's done, the sooner we'll get along
                        nicely." His blue eyes were laughing into hers. With the utmost
                        deliberation he gripped her throat with one hand and with the other began to
                        slap her, each blow at his full strength. Her attempts to scream were only
                        gasps. Quickly the agony of his brutality drove her into unconsciousness.
                        Long after she had ceased to feel pain, she continued to feel the impact of
                        those blows, and dully heard her own deep groans.
                    When she came to her senses, she was lying sprawled upon the far side of the
                        bed. Her head was aching wildly; her body was stiff and sore; her face felt
                        as if it were swollen to many times its normal size. In misery  she dragged herself up and stood on the
                        floor. She went to the bureau and stared at herself in the glass. Her face
                        was indeed swollen, but not to actual disfigurement. Under her left eye
                        there was a small cut from which the blood had oozed to smear and dry upon
                        her left cheek. Upon her throat were faint bluish finger marks. The damage
                        was not nearly so great as her throbbing nerves reported—the damage
                        to her body. But—her soul—it was a crushed, trampled,
                        degraded thing, lying prone and bleeding to death. "Shall I kill
                        myself?" she thought. And the answer came in a fierce protest and
                        refusal from every nerve of her intensely vital youth. She looked straight
                        into her own eyes—without horror, without shame, without fear.
                        "You are as low as the lowest," she said to her
                        image—not to herself but to her image; for herself seemed spectator
                        merely of that body and soul aching and bleeding and degraded.
                    It was the beginning of self-consciousness with her—a curious kind
                        of self-consciousness—her real self, aloof and far removed,
                        observing calmly, critically, impersonally the adventures of her body and
                        the rest of her surface self.
                    She turned round to look again at the man who had outraged them. His eyes
                        were open and he was gazing dreamily at her, as smiling and innocent as a
                        child. When their eyes met, his smile broadened until he was showing his
                        beautiful teeth. "You are a beauty!"
                        said he. "Go into the other room and get me a
                        cigarette."
                    She continued to look fixedly at him.
                    Without change of expression he said gently, "Do you want another
                        lesson in manners?"
                    She went to the door, opened it, entered the sitting-room. The other two had
                        pulled open a folding bed  and were lying in
                        it, Jim's head on Maud's bosom, her arms round his neck.
                        Both were asleep. His black beard had grown out enough to give his face a
                        dirty and devilish expression. Maud looked far more youthful and much
                        prettier than when she was awake. Susan put a cigarette between her lips,
                        lit it, carried a box of cigarettes and a stand of matches in to
                        Freddie.
                    "Light one for me," said he.
                    She obeyed, held it to his lips.
                    "Kiss me, first."
                    Her pale lips compressed.
                    "Kiss me," he repeated, far down in his eyes the vicious
                        gleam of that boundlessly ferocious cruelty which is mothered not by rage
                        but by pleasure.
                    She kissed him on the cheek.
                    "On the lips," he commanded.
                    Their lips met, and it was to her as if a hot flame, terrible yet thrilling,
                        swept round and embraced her whole body.
                    "Do you love me?" he asked tenderly.
                    She was silent.
                    "You love me?" he asked commandingly.
                    "You can call it that if you like."
                    "I knew you would. I understand women. The way to make a woman love
                        is to make her afraid."
                    She gazed at him. "I am not afraid," she said.
                    He laughed. "Oh, yes. That's why you do what I
                        say—and always will."
                    "No," replied she. "I don't do it because
                        I am afraid, but because I want to live."
                    "I should think! . . . You'll be all right in a day or
                        so," said he, after inspecting her bruises. "Now,
                        I'll explain to you what good friends we're going to
                        be."
                    He propped himself in an attitude of lazy grace,  puffed at his cigarette in silence for a moment, as if arranging what he
                        had to say. At last he began:
                    "I haven't any regular business. I wasn't born to
                        work. Only damn fools work—and the clever man waits till
                        they've got something, then he takes it away from 'em. You
                        don't want to work, either.
                    "I haven't been able to make a living at it," said
                        the girl. She was sitting cross-legged, a cover draped around her.
                    "You're too pretty and too clever. Besides, as you say, you
                        couldn't make a living at it—not what's a living
                        for a woman brought up as you've been. No, you can't work.
                        So we're going to be partners."
                    "No," said Susan. "I'm going to dress now
                        and go away."
                    Freddie laughed. "Don't be a fool. Didn't I say we
                        were to be partners? . . . You want to keep on at the sporting business,
                        don't you?"
                    Hers was the silence of assent.
                    "Well—a woman—especially a young one like
                        you—is no good unless she has someone—some
                        man—behind her. Married or single, respectable or lively, working
                        or sporting—N. G. without a man. A woman alone doesn't
                        amount to any more than a rich man's son."
                    There had been nothing in Susan's experience to enable her to
                        dispute this.
                    "Now, I'm going to stand behind you. I'll see that
                        you don't get pinched, and get you out if you do. I'll see
                        that you get the best the city's got if you're
                        sick—and so on. I've got a pull with the organization.
                        I'm one of Finnegan's lieutenants. Some day—when
                        I'm older and have served my apprenticeship—I'll
                        pull off something good. Meanwhile—I manage to live. I always have
                        managed it—and I never did a stroke of  real work since I was a kid—and never shall. God was mighty good
                        to me when he put a few brains in this nut of mine."
                    He settled his head comfortably in the pillow and smiled at his own thoughts.
                        In spite of herself Susan had been not only interested but attracted. It is
                        impossible for any human being to contemplate mystery in any form without
                        being fascinated. And here was the profoundest mystery she had ever seen. He
                        talked well, and his mode of talking was that of education, of refinement
                        even. An extraordinary man, certainly—and in what a strange
                        way!
                    "Yes," said he presently, looking at her with his gentle,
                        friendly smile. "We'll be partners. I'll protect
                        you and we'll divide what you make."
                    What a strange creature! Had he—this kindly handsome
                        youth—done that frightful thing? No—no. It was another
                        instance of the unreality of the outward life. He had not
                        done it, any more than she—her real self—had suffered it.
                        Her reply to his restatement of the partnership was:
                    "No, thank you. I want nothing to do with it."
                    "You're dead slow," said he, with mild and patient
                        persuasion. "How would you get along at your business in this town
                        if you didn't have a backer? Why, you'd be taking turns at
                        the Island and the gutter within six months. You'd be giving all
                        your money to some rotten cop or fly cop who couldn't protect you,
                        at that. Or you'd work the street for some cheap cadet
                        who'd beat you up oftener than he'd beat up the men who
                        welched on you."
                    "I'll look out for myself," persisted she.
                    "Bless the baby!" exclaimed he, immensely amused.
                        "How lucky that you found me! I'm going to take  care of you in spite of yourself. Not for
                        nothing, of course. You wouldn't value me if you got me for
                        nothing. I'm going to help you, and you're going to help
                        me. You need me, and I need you. Why do you suppose I took the trouble to
                        tame you? What you want doesn't go. It's
                        what I want."
                    He let her reflect on this a while. Then he went on:
                    "You don't understand about fellows like Jim and
                        me—though Jim's a small potato beside me, as
                        you'll soon find out. Suppose you didn't obey
                        orders—just as I do what Finnegan tells me—just as
                        Finnegan does what the big shout down below says? Suppose you
                        didn't obey—what then?"
                    "I don't know," confessed Susan.
                    "Well, it's time you learned. We'll say, you act
                        stubborn. You dress and say good-by to me and start out. Do you think
                        I'm wicked enough to let you make a fool of yourself? Well,
                        I'm not. You won't get outside the door before your good
                        angel here will get busy. I'll be telephoning to a fly cop of this
                        district. And what'll he do? Why, about the time you are halfway
                        down the block, he'll pinch you. He'll take you to the
                        station house. And in Police Court tomorrow the Judge'll give you a
                        week on the Island for being a streetwalker."
                    Susan shivered. She instinctively glanced toward the window. The rain was
                        still falling, changing the City of the Sun into a city of desolation. It
                        looked as though it would never see the sun again—and her life
                        looked that way, also.
                    Freddie was smiling pleasantly. He went on:
                    "You do your little stretch on the Island. When your time's
                        up I send you word where to report to me. We'll say you
                        don't come. The minute you set foot 
                        on the streets again alone, back to the Island you go. . . . Now, do you
                        understand, Queenie?" And he laughed and pulled her over and kissed
                        her and smoothed her hair. "You're a very superior
                        article—you are," he murmured. "I'm
                        stuck on you."
                    Susan did not resist. She did not care what happened to her. The more
                        intelligent a trapped animal is, the less resistance it offers, once it
                        realizes. Helpless—absolutely helpless. No money—no
                        friends. No escape but death. The sun was shining. Outside lay the vast
                        world; across the street on a flagpole fluttered the banner of freedom.
                        Freedom! Was there any such thing anywhere? Perhaps if one had plenty of
                        money—or powerful friends. But not for her, any more than for the
                        masses whose fate of squalid and stupid slavery she was trying to escape.
                        Not for her; so long as she was helpless she would simply move from one land
                        of slavery to another. Helpless! To struggle would not be courageous, but
                        merely absurd.
                    "If you don't believe me, ask Maud," said
                        Freddie.
                    "I don't want you to get into trouble. As I told you,
                        I'm stuck on you." With his cigarette gracefully loose
                        between those almost too beautifully formed lips of his and with one of his
                        strong smooth white arms about his head, he looked at her, an expression of
                        content with himself, of admiration for her in his handsome eyes.
                        "You don't realize your good luck. But you will when you
                        find how many girls are crazy to get on the good side of me. This is a great
                        old town, and nobody amounts to anything in it unless he's got a
                        pull or is next to somebody else that has."
                    Susan's slow reflective nod showed that this statement explained, or
                        seemed to explain, certain mysteries of life that had been puzzling her.
                    
                    "You've got a lot in you," continued he.
                        "That's my opinion, and I'm a fair judge of
                        yearlings. You're liable to land somewhere some day when
                        you've struck your gait. . . . If I had the mon I'd be
                        tempted to set you up in a flat and keep you all to myself. But I
                        can't afford it. It takes a lot of cash to keep me going. . . .
                        You'll do well. You won't have to bother with any but
                        classy gents. I'll see that the cops put you wise when
                        there's anyone round throwing his money away. And I can help you,
                        myself. I've got quite a line of friends among the rich chappies
                        from Fifth Avenue. And I always let my girls get the benefit of
                        it."
                    My girls! Susan's mind, recovering now from its daze, seized upon
                        this phrase. And soon she had fathomed how these two young men came to be so
                        luxuriously dressed, so well supplied with money. She had heard of this
                        system under which the girls in the streets were exploited as thoroughly as
                        the girls in the houses. In all the earth was there anyone who was suffered
                        to do for himself or herself without there being a powerful idle someone
                        else to take away all the proceeds but a bare living? Helpless!
                        Helpless!
                    "How many girls have you?" she asked.
                    "Jealous already!" And he laughed and blew a cloud of smoke
                        into her face.
                    She took the quarters he directed—a plain clean room two flights up
                        at seven dollars a week, in a furnished room house on West Forty-third
                        Street near Eighth Avenue. She was but a few blocks from where she and Rod
                        had lived. New York—to a degree unrivaled among the cities of the
                        world—illustrates in the isolated lives of its never isolated
                        inhabitants how little relationship there is between space and actualities
                             of distance. Wherever on earth there are
                        as many as two human beings, one may see an instance of the truth. That an
                        infinity of spiritual solitude can stretch uncrossable even between two
                        locked in each other's loving arms! But New York's
                        solitudes, its separations, extend to the surface things. Susan had no sense
                        of the apparent nearness of her former abode. Her life again lay in the same
                        streets; but there again came the sense of strangeness which only one who
                        has lived in New York could appreciate. The streets were the same; but to
                        her they seemed as the streets of another city, because she was now seeing
                        in them none of the things she used to see, was seeing instead kinds of
                        people, aspects of human beings, modes of feeling and acting and existing of
                        which she used to have not the faintest knowledge. There were as many worlds
                        as kinds of people. Thus, though we all talk to each other as if about the
                        same world, each of us is thinking of his own kind of world, the only one he
                        sees. And that is why there can never be sympathy and understanding among
                        the children of men until there is some approach to resemblance in their
                        various lots; for the lot determines the man.
                    The house was filled with women of her own kind. They were allowed all
                        privileges. There was neither bath nor stationary washstand, but the
                        landlady supplied tin tubs on request. "Oh, Mr. Palmer's
                        recommendation," said she; "I'll give you two
                        days to pay. My terms are in advance. But Mr. Palmer's a dear
                        friend of mine."
                    She was a short woman with a monstrous bust and almost no hips. Her thin hair
                        was dyed and frizzled, and her voice sounded as if it found its way out of
                        her fat lips after a long struggle to pass through the  fat of her throat and chest. Her second chin lay upon her
                        bosom in a soft swollen bag that seemed to be suspended from her ears. Her
                        eyes were hard and evil, of a brownish gray. She affected suavity and
                        elaborate politeness; but if the least thing disturbed her, she became red
                        and coarse of voice and vile of language. The vile language and the nature
                        of her business and her private life aside, she would have compared
                        favorably with anyone in the class of those who deal—as merchants,
                        as landlords, as boarding-house keepers—with the desperately
                        different classes of uncertain income. She was reputed rich. They said she
                        stayed on in business to avoid lonesomeness and to keep in touch with all
                        that was going on in the life that had been hers from girlhood.
                    "And she's a mixer," said Maud to Susan. In
                        response to Susan's look of inquiry, she went on to explain,
                        "A mixer's a white woman that keeps a colored
                        man." Maud laughed at Susan's expression of horror.
                        "You are a greenie," she mocked. "Why,
                        it's all the rage. Nearly all the girls do—from the
                        headliners that are kept by the young Fifth Avenue millionaires down to nine
                        out of ten of the girls of our set that you see in Broadway. No,
                        I'm not lying. It's the truth. I
                        don't do it—at least, not yet. I may get round to
                        it."
                    After the talk with Maud about the realities of life as it is lived by
                        several hundred thousand of the inhabitants of Manhattan Island Susan had
                        not the least disposition to test by defiance the truth of Freddie
                        Palmer's plain statement as to his powers and her duties. He had
                        told her to go to work that very Sunday evening, and Jim had ordered Maud to
                        call for her and to initiate her. And at half-past seven Maud came. At once
                        she inspected Susan's swollen face.
                    
                    "Might be a bit worse," she said. "With a veil on,
                        no one'd notice it."
                    "But I haven't a veil," said Susan.
                    "I've got mine with me—pinned to my garter. I
                        haven't been home since this afternoon." And Maud produced
                        it.
                    "But I can't wear a veil at night," objected
                        Susan.
                    "Why not?" said Maud. "Lots of the girls do. A
                        veil's a dandy hider. Besides, even where a girl's got
                        nothing to hide and has a face that's all to the good, still
                        it's not a bad idea to wear a veil. Men like what they
                        can't see. One of the ugliest girls I know makes a lot of
                        money—all with her veil. She fixes up her figure something grand.
                        Then she puts on that veil—one of the kind you think you can see a
                        face through but you really can't. And she never lifts it till the
                        'come on' has given up his cash. Then—"
                        Maud laughed. "Gee, but she has had some hot run-ins after she
                        hoists her curtain!"
                    "Why don't you wear a veil all the time?" asked
                        Susan.
                    Maud tossed her head. "What do you take me for? I've got
                        too good an opinion of my looks for that."
                    Susan put on the veil. It was not of the kind that is a disguise. Still,
                        diaphanous though it seemed, it concealed astonishingly the swelling in
                        Susan's face. Obviously, then, it must at least haze the features,
                        would do something toward blurring the marks that go to make identity.
                    "I shall always wear a veil," said Susan.
                    "Oh, I don't know," deprecated Maud. "I
                        think you're quite pretty—though a little too proper and
                        serious looking to suit some tastes."
                    
                    Susan had removed veil and hat, was letting down her hair.
                    "What are you doing that for?" cried Maud impatiently.
                        "We're late now and—"
                    "I don't like the way my hair's done,"
                        cried Susan.
                    "Why, it was all right—real swell—good as a
                        hairdresser could have done."
                    But Susan went on at her task. Ever since she came East she had worn it in a
                        braid looped at the back of her head. She proceeded to change this
                        radically. With Maud forgetting to be impatient in admiration of her swift
                        fingers she made a coiffure much more elaborate—wide waves out from
                        her temples and a big round loose knot behind. She was well content with the
                        result—especially when she got the veil on again and it was
                        assisting in the change.
                    "What do you think?" she said to Maud when she was
                        ready.
                    "My, but you look different!" exclaimed Maud. "A
                        lot dressier—and sportier. More—more
                        Broadway."
                    "That's it—Broadway," said Susan. She had
                        always avoided looking like Broadway. Now, she would take the opposite tack.
                        Not loud toilets—for they would defeat her purpose. Not loud
                        but—just common.
                    "But," added Maud, "you do look swell about the
                        feet. Where do you get your shoes? No, I guess
                        it's the feet."
                    As they sallied forth Maud said, "First, I'll show you our
                        hotel." And they went to a Raines Law hotel in Forty-second Street
                        near Eighth Avenue. "The proprietor's a heeler of
                        Finnegan's. I guess Freddie comes in for some rake-off. He gives us
                        twenty-five cents of every dollar the man spends," explained she.
                        "And if the man opens wine we get two dollars on  every bottle. The best way is to stay behind
                        when the man goes and collect right away. That avoids rows—though
                        they'd hardly dare cheat you, being as you're on
                        Freddie's staff. Freddie's got a big pull. He's
                        way up at the top. I wish to God I had him instead of Jim.
                        Freddie's giving up fast. They say he's got some things a
                        lot better'n this now, and that he's likely to quit this
                        and turn respectable. You ought to treat me mighty white, seeing what I done
                        for you. I've put you in right—and that's
                        everything in this here life."
                    Susan looked all round—looked along the streets stretching away with
                        their morning suggestion of freedom to fly, freedom to
                        escape—helpless! "Can't I get a drink?"
                        asked she. There was a strained look in her eyes, a significant nervousness
                        of the lips and hands. "I must have a drink."
                    "Of course. Max has been on a vacation, but I hear he's
                        back. When I introduce you, he'll probably set 'em up. But
                        I wouldn't drink if I were you till I went off duty."
                    "I must have a drink," replied Susan.
                    "It'll get you down. It got me down. I used to have a fine
                        sucker—gave me a hundred a week and paid my flat rent. But I had
                        nothing else to do, so I took to drinking, and I got so reckless that I let
                        him catch me with my lover that time. But I had to have somebody to spend
                        the money on. Anyhow, it's no fun having a John."
                    "A John?" said Susan. "What's
                        that?"
                    "You are an innocent—!" laughed Maud. "A
                        John's a sucker—a fellow that keeps a girl. Well,
                        it'd be no fun to have a John unless you fooled him—would
                        it?"
                    They now entered the side door of the hotel and  ascended the stairs. A dyspeptic looking man with a red nose that stood
                        out the more strongly for the sallowness of his skin and the smallness of
                        his sunken brown eyes had his hands spread upon the office desk and was
                        leaning on his stiff arms. "Hello, Max," said Maud in a
                        fresh, condescending way. "How's business?"
                    "Slow. Always slack on Sundays. How goes it with you,
                        Maudie?"
                    "So—so. I manage to pick up a living in spite of the damn
                        chippies. I don't see why the hell they don't go into the
                        business regular and make something out of it, instead of loving free.
                        I'm down on a girl that's neither the one thing nor the
                        other. This is my lady friend, Miss Queenie." She turned laughingly
                        to Susan. "I never asked your last name."
                    "Brown."
                    "My, what a strange name!" cried Maud. Then, as the
                        proprietor laughed with the heartiness of trades-man at good
                        customer's jest, she said, "Going to set 'em up,
                        Max?"
                    He pressed a button and rang a bell loudly. The responding waiter departed
                        with orders for a whiskey and two lithias. Maud explained to Susan:
                    "Max used to be a prize-fighter. He was middle-weight
                        champion."
                    "I've been a lot of things in my days," said Max
                        with pride.
                    "So I've heard," joked Maud. "They say
                        they've got your picture at headquarters."
                    "That's neither here nor there," said Max surlily.
                        "Don't get too flip." Susan drank her whiskey as
                        soon as it came, and the glow rushed to her ghastly face. Said Max with
                        great politeness:
                    
                    "You're having a little neuralgia, ain't you? I
                        see your face is swole some."
                    "Yes," said Susan. "Neuralgia." Maud
                        laughed hilariously. Susan herself had ceased to brood over the incident. In
                        conventional lives, visited but rarely by perilous storms, by disaster, such
                        an event would be what is called concise. But in life as it is lived by the
                        masses of the people—life in which awful disease, death, maiming,
                        eviction, fire, violent event of any and every kind, is part of the daily
                        routine—in that life of the masses there is no time for lingering
                        upon the weathered storm or for bothering about and repairing its ravages.
                        Those who live the comparatively languid, the sheltered life should not use
                        their own standards of what is delicate and refined, what is conspicuous and
                        strong, when they judge their fellow beings as differently situated.
                        Nevertheless, they do—with the result that we find the puny mud
                        lark criticizing the eagle battling with the hurricane.
                    When Susan and Maud were in the street again, Susan declared that she must
                        have another drink. "I can't offer to pay for one for
                        you," said she to Maud. "I've almost no money.
                        And I must spend what I've got for whiskey before
                        I—can—can—start in."
                    Maud began to laugh, looked at Susan, and was almost crying instead.
                        "I can lend you a fiver," she said.
                        "Life's hell—ain't it? My father used to
                        have a good business—tobacco. The trust took it away from
                        him—and then he drank—and mother, she drank, too. And one
                        day he beat her so she died—and he ran away. Oh, it's all
                        awful! But I've stopped caring. I'm stuck on
                        Jim—and another little fellow he don't know about. For
                        God's sake don't tell him or he'd have me pinched
                        for doing business free. I get  full every
                        night and raise old Nick. Sometimes I hate Jim. I've tried to kill
                        him twice when I was loaded. But a girl's got to have a backer with
                        a pull. And Jim lets me keep a bigger share of what I make than some
                        fellows. Freddie's pretty good too, they say—except when
                        he's losing on the races or gets stuck on some actress
                        that's too classy to be shanghaied—like you
                        was—and that makes him cough up."
                    Maud went on to disclose that Jim usually let her have all she made above
                        thirty dollars a week, and in hard weeks had sometimes let her beg off with
                        fifteen. Said she:
                    "I can generally count on about fifteen or twenty for myself. Us
                        girls that has backers make a lot more money than the girls that
                        hasn't. They're always getting pinched too—though
                        they're careful never to speak first to a man. We
                        can go right up and brace men with the cops looking on. A cop
                        that'd touch us would get broke—unless we got too gay or
                        robbed somebody with a pull. But none of our class of girls do any robbing.
                        There's nothing in it. You get caught sooner or later, and then
                        you're down and out."
                    While Susan was having two more drinks Maud talked about Freddie. She seemed
                        to know little about him, though he was evidently one of the conspicuous
                        figures. He had started in the lower East Side—had been leader of
                        one of those gangs that infest tenement districts—the young men who
                        refuse to submit to the common lot of stupid and badly paid toil and try to
                        fight their way out by the quick methods of violence instead of the slower
                        but surer methods of robbing the poor through a store of some kind. These
                        gangs were thieves, blackmailers, kidnapers of young girls for houses of
                        prostitution, repeaters. Most of them graduated  into habitual jailbirds, a few—the cleverest—became
                        saloon-keepers and politicians and high-class professional gamblers and race
                        track men.
                    Freddie, Maud explained, was not much over twenty-five, yet was already well
                        up toward the place where successful gang leaders crossed over into the
                        respectable class—that is, grafted in "big
                        figures." He was a great reader, said Maud, and had taken courses
                        at some college. "They say he and his gang used to kill somebody
                        nearly every night. Then he got a lot of money out of one of his
                        jobs—some say it was a bank robbery and some say they killed a
                        miner who was drunk with a big roll on him. Anyhow, Freddie got next to
                        Finnegan—he's worth several millions that he made out of
                        policy shops and poolrooms, and contracts and such political things. So
                        he's in right—and he's got the brains.
                        He's a good one for working out schemes for making people work hard
                        and bring him their money. And everybody's afraid of him because he
                        won't stop at nothing and is too slick to get caught."
                    Maud broke off abruptly and rose, warned by the glazed look in
                        Susan's eyes. Susan was so far gone that she had difficulty in not
                        staggering and did not dare speak lest her uncertain tongue should betray
                        her. Maud walked her up and down the block several times to give the fresh
                        air a chance, then led her up to a man who had looked at them in passing and
                        had paused to look back. "Want to go have a good time,
                        sweetheart?" said Maud to the man. He was well dressed,
                        middle-aged, with a full beard and spectacles, looked as if he might be a
                        banker, or perhaps a professor in some college.
                    "How much?" asked he.
                    
                    "Five for a little while. Come along, sporty. Take me or my lady
                        friend."
                    "How much for both of you?"
                    "Ten. We don't cut rates. Take us both, dearie. I know a
                        hotel where it'd be all right."
                    "No. I guess I'll take your lady friend." He had
                        been peering at Susan through his glasses. "And if she treats me
                        well, I'll take her again. You're sure you're all
                        right? I'm a married man."
                    "We've both been home visiting for a month, and walking the
                        chalk. My, but ma's strict! We got back tonight," said
                        Maud glibly. "Go ahead, Queenie. I'll be chasing up and
                        down here, waiting." In a lower tone: "Get through with
                        him quick. Strike him for five more after you get the first five.
                        He's a blob."
                    When Susan came slinking through the office of the hotel in the wake of the
                        man two hours later, Maud sprang from the little parlor. "How much
                        did you get?" she asked in an undertone.
                    Susan looked nervously at the back of the man who was descending the stairway
                        to the street. "He said he'd pay me next time,"
                        she said. "I didn't know what to do. He was polite
                        and—"
                    Maud seized her by the arm. "Come along!" she cried. As she
                        passed the desk she said to the clerk, "A dirty bilker!
                        Tryin' to kiss his way out!"
                    "Give him hell," said the clerk.
                    Maud, still gripping Susan, overtook the man at the sidewalk. "What
                        do you mean by not paying my lady friend?" she shouted.
                    "Get out!" said the man in a low tone, with an uneasy
                        glance round. "If you annoy me I'll call the
                        police."
                    "If you don't cough up mighty damn quick," cried
                             Maud so loudly that several passers-by
                        stopped, "I'll do the calling myself, you bum, and have
                        you pinched for insulting two respectable working girls." And she
                        planted herself squarely before him. Susan drew back into the shadow of the
                        wall.
                    Up stepped Max, who happened to be standing outside his place.
                        "What's the row about?" he demanded.
                    "These women are trying to blackmail me," said the man,
                        sidling away.
                    Maud seized him by the arm. "Will you cough up or shall I
                        scream?" she cried.
                    "Stand out of the way, girls," said Max savagely,
                        "and let me take a crack at the —"
                    The man dived into his pocket, produced a bill, thrust it toward Susan. Maud
                        saw that it was a five. "That's only five," she
                        cried. "Where's the other five?"
                    "Five was the bargain," whined the man.
                    "Do you want me to push in your blinkers, you damned old bilk,
                        you?" cried Max, seizing him violently by the arm. The man visited
                        his pocket again, found another five, extended the two. Maud seized them.
                        "Now, clear out!" said Max. "I hate to let you go
                        without a swift kick in the pants."
                    Maud pressed the money on Susan and thanked Max. Said Max,
                        "Don't forget to tell Freddie what I done for his
                        girl."
                    "She'll tell him, all right," Maud assured
                        him.
                    As the girls went east through Forty-second Street, Susan said,
                        "I'm afraid that man'll lay for us."
                    "Lay for us," laughed Maud. "He'll run
                        like a cat afire if he ever sights us again."
                    "I feel queer and faint," said Susan. "I must have
                        a drink."
                    
                    "Well—I'll go with you. But I've got to
                        get busy. I want a couple of days off this week for my little fellow, so I
                        must hustle. You let that dirty dog keep you too long. Half an
                        hour's plenty enough. Always make 'em cough up in advance,
                        then hustle 'em through. And don't listen to their guff
                        about wanting to see you again if you treat 'em right.
                        There's nothing in it."
                    They went into a restaurant bar near Broadway. Susan took two drinks of
                        whiskey raw in rapid succession; Maud took one drink—a green mint
                        with ice. "While you was fooling away time with that
                        thief," said she, "I had two men—got five from
                        one, three from the other. The five-dollar man took a three-dollar
                        room—that was seventy-five for me. The three-dollar
                        wouldn't stand for more than a dollar room—so I got only a
                        quarter there. But he set 'em up to two rounds of drinks—a
                        quarter more for me. So I cleared nine twenty-five. And you'd
                        'a' got only your twenty-five cents commission on the room
                        if it hadn't been for me. You forgot to collect your commission.
                        Well, you can get it next time. Only I wouldn't ask for it, Max was so nice in helping out. He'll give
                        you the quarter."
                    When Susan had taken her second stiff drink, her eyes were sparkling and she
                        was laughing recklessly. "I want a cigarette," she
                        said.
                    "You feel bully, don't you?"
                    "I'm ready for anything," declared she giddily.
                        "I don't give a damn. I'm over the line.
                            I—don't—give—a—damn!"
                    "I used to hate the men I went up with," said Maud,
                        "but now I hardly look at their faces. You'll soon be that
                        way. Then you'll only drink for fun. Drink—and  dope—they are about the only fun we
                        have—them and caring about some fellow."
                    "How many girls has Freddie got?"
                    "Search me. Not many that he'd speak to himself.
                        Jim's his wardman—does his collecting for him.
                        Freddie's above most of the men in this business. The others are
                        about like Jim—tough straight through, but Freddie's a
                        kind of a pullman. The other men—even Jim—hate him for
                        being such a snare and being able to hide it that he's in such a
                        low business. They'd have done him up long ago, if they could. But
                        he's too wise for them. That's why they have to do what he
                        says. I tell you, you're in right, for sure. You'll have
                        Freddie eating out of your hand, if you play a cool hand."
                    Susan ordered another drink and a package of Egyptian cigarettes.
                        "They don't allow ladies to smoke in here," said
                        Maud. "We'll go to the wash-room."
                    And in the washroom they took a few hasty puffs before sallying forth again.
                        Usually Sunday night was dull, all the men having spent their spare money
                        the night before, and it being a bad night for married men to make excuses
                        for getting away from home. Maud explained that, except
                        "out-of-towners," the married men were the chief support
                        of their profession—"and most of the cornhuskers are
                        married men, too." But Susan had the novice's luck. When
                        she and Maud met Maud's "little gentleman friend"
                        Harry Tucker at midnight and went to Considine's for supper, Susan
                        had taken in "presents" and commissions twenty-nine
                        dollars and a half. Maud had not done so badly, herself; her net receipts
                        were twenty-two fifty.
                    She would not let Susan pay any part of the supper  bill, but gave Harry the necessary money.
                        "Here's a five," said she, pressing the bill into
                        his hand, "and keep the change."
                    And she looked at him with loving eyes of longing. He was a pretty,
                        common-looking fellow, a mere boy, who clerked in a haberdashery in the
                        neighborhood. As he got only six dollars a week and had to give five to his
                        mother who sewed, he could not afford to spend money on Maud, and she
                        neither expected nor wished it. When she picked him up, he like most of his
                        fellow-clerks had no decent clothing but the suit he had to have to
                        "make a front" at the store. Maud had out-fitted him from
                        the skin with the cheap but showy stuff exhibited for just such purposes in
                        the Broadway windows. She explained confidentially to Susan:
                    "It makes me sort of feel that I own him. Then, too, in love there
                        oughtn't to be any money. If he paid, I'd be as cold to
                        him as I am to the rest. The only reason I like Jim at all is I like a good
                        beating once in a while. It's exciting. Jim—he treats me
                        like the dirt under his feet. And that's what we are—dirt
                        under the men's feet. Every woman knows it, when it comes to a
                        show-down between her and a man. As my pop used to say, the world was made
                        for men, not for women. Still, our graft ain't so bum, at
                        that—if we work it right."
                    Freddie called on Susan about noon the next day. She was still in bed. He was
                        dressed in the extreme of fashion, was wearing a chinchilla-lined coat. He
                        looked the idle, sportively inclined son of some rich man in the Fifth
                        Avenue district. He was having an affair with a much admired young
                        actress—was engaged in it rather as a matter of vanity and for the
                        fashionable half-world associations into which it introduced him rather than
                        from any present interest in the  lady. He
                        stood watching Susan with a peculiar expression—one he might
                        perhaps have found it hard to define himself. He bent over her and
                        carelessly brushed her ear with his lips. "How did your royal
                        highness make out?" inquired he.
                    "The money's in the top bureau drawer," replied
                        she, the covers up to her eyes and her eyes closed.
                    He went to the bureau, opened the drawer, with his gloved hands counted the
                        money. As he counted his eyes had a look in them that was strangely like
                        jealous rage. He kept his back toward her for some time after he had crossed
                        to look at the money. When he spoke it was to say:
                    "Not bad. And when you get dressed up a bit and lose your stage
                        fright, you'll do a smashing business. I'll not take my
                        share of this. I had a good run with the cards last night. Anyhow,
                        you've got to pay your rent and buy some clothes. I've got
                        to invest something in my new property. It's badly run down.
                        You'll get busy again tonight, of course. Never lay off, lady,
                        unless the weather's bad. You'll find you won't
                        average more than twenty good business days a month in summer and fall, and
                        only about ten in winter and spring, when it's cold and often lots
                        of bad weather in the afternoons and evenings. That means
                        hustle."
                    No sign from Susan. He sat on the bed and pulled the covers away from her
                        face. "What are you so grouchy about, pet?" he inquired,
                        chucking her under the chin.
                    "Nothing."
                    "Too much booze, I'll bet. Well, sleep your grouch off.
                        I've got a date with Finnegan. The election's coming on,
                        and I have to work—lining up the vote and getting the repeaters
                        ready. It all means good money  for me. Look
                        out about the booze, lady. It'll float you into
                        trouble—trouble with me, I mean." And he patted her bare
                        shoulders, laughed gently, went to the door. He paused there, struggled with
                        an impulse to turn—departed.
                
                
                
                    VII
                    
                        BUT she did not "look out about the
                        booze." Each morning she awoke in a state of depression so horrible
                        that she wondered why she could not bring herself to plan suicide. Why was
                        it? Her marriage? Yes—and she paid it its customary tribute of a
                        shudder. Yes, her marriage had made all things thereafter possible. But what
                        else? Lack of courage? Lack of self-respect? Was it not always assumed that
                        a woman in her position, if she had a grain of decent instinct, would rush
                        eagerly upon death? Was she so much worse than others? Or was what everybody
                        said about these things—everybody who had experience—was
                        it false, like nearly everything else she had been taught? She did not
                        understand; she only knew that hope was as strong within her as health
                        itself—and that she did not want to die—and that at
                        present she was helpless.
                    One evening the man she was with—a good-looking and unusually
                        interesting young chap—suddenly said:
                    "What a heart action you have got! Let me listen to that
                        again."
                    "Is it all wrong?" asked Susan, as he pressed his ear
                        against her chest.
                    "You ask that as if you rather hoped it was."
                    "I do—and I don't."
                    "Well," said he, after listening for a third time,
                        "you'll never die of heart trouble. I never heard a heart
                        with such a grand action—like a big, powerful pump, built to last
                        forever. You're never ill, are you?"
                    
                    "Not thus far."
                    "And you'll have a hard time making yourself ill. Health?
                        Why, your health must be perfect. Let me see." And he proceeded to
                        thump and press upon her chest with an expertness that proclaimed the
                        student of medicine. He was all interest and enthusiasm, took a pencil and,
                        spreading a sheet upon her chest over her heart, drew its outlines.
                        "There!" he cried.
                    "What is it?" asked Susan. "I don't
                        understand."
                    The young man drew a second and much smaller heart within the outline of
                        hers. "This," he explained, "is about the size of
                        an ordinary heart. You can see for yourself that yours is fully one-fourth
                        bigger than the normal."
                    "What of it?" said Susan.
                    "Why, health and strength—and
                        vitality—courage—hope—all one-fourth above the
                        ordinary allowance. Yes, more than a fourth. I envy you. You ought to live
                        long, stay young until you're very old—and get pretty much
                        anything you please. You don't belong to this life. Some accident,
                        I guess. Every once in a while I run across a case something like yours.
                        You'll go back where you belong. This is a dip, not a
                        drop."
                    "You sound like a fortune-teller." She was smiling
                        mockingly. But in truth she had never in all her life heard words that
                        thrilled her so, that heartened her so.
                    "I am. A scientific fortune-teller. And what that kind says comes
                        true, barring accidents. As you're not ignorant and careless this
                        life of yours isn't physiologically bad. On the contrary,
                        you're out in the open air much of the time and get the splended
                        exercise of walking—a much more healthful life, in the essential
                        ways, than respectable women lead. They're always stuffing, and
                        rumping it. They never move if they can  help.
                        No, nothing can stop you but death—unless you're far less
                        intelligent than you look. Oh, yes—death and one other
                        thing."
                    "Drink." And he looked shrewdly at her.
                    But drink she must. And each day, as soon as she dressed and was out in the
                        street, she began to drink, and kept it up until she had driven off the
                        depression and had got herself into the mood of recklessness in which she
                        found a certain sardonic pleasure in out-raging her own sensibilities. There
                        is a stage in a drinking career when the man or the woman becomes depraved
                        and ugly as soon as the liquor takes effect. But she was far from this
                        advanced stage. Her disposition was, if anything, more sweet and generous
                        when she was under the influence of liquor. The whiskey—she almost
                        always drank whiskey—seemed to act directly and only upon the
                        nerves that ached and throbbed when she was sober, the nerves that made the
                        life she was leading seem loathsome beyond the power of habit to accustom.
                        With these nerves stupefied, her natural gayety asserted itself, and a
                        fondness for quiet and subtle mockery—her indulgence in it did not
                        make her popular with vain men sufficiently acute to catch her meaning.
                    By observation and practice she was soon able to measure the exact amount of
                        liquor that was necessary to produce the proper state of intoxication at the
                        hour for going "on duty." That gayety of hers was of the
                        surface only. Behind it her real self remained indifferent or somber or
                        sardonic, according to her mood of the day. And she had the sense of being
                        in the grasp of a hideous, fascinating nightmare, of being dragged through
                        some dreadful probation from which she would presently emerge to ascend to
                        the position she would  have earned by her
                        desperate fortitude. The past—unreal. The present—a waking
                        dream. But the future—ah, the future!
                    He has not candidly explored far beneath the surface of things who does not
                        know the strange allure, charm even, that many loathsome things possess. And
                        drink is peculiarly fitted to bring out this perverse quality—drink
                        that blurs all the conventionalities, even those built up into moral ideas
                        by centuries and ages of unbroken custom. The human animal, for all its
                        pretenses of inflexibility, is almost infinitely adaptable—that is
                        why it has risen in several million years of evolution from about the
                        humblest rank in the mammalian family to overlordship of the universe.
                        Still, it is doubtful if, without drink to help her, a girl of
                        Susan's intelligence and temperament would have been apt to endure.
                        She would probably have chosen the alternative—death. Hundreds,
                        perhaps thousands, of girls, at least her equals in sensibility, are caught
                        in the same calamity every year, tens of thousands, ever more and more as
                        our civilization transforms under the pressure of industrialism, are caught
                        in the similar calamities of soul-destroying toil. And only the few survive
                        who have perfect health and abounding vitality. Susan's iron
                        strength enabled her to live; but it was drink that enabled her to endure.
                        Beyond question one of the greatest blessings that could now be conferred
                        upon the race would be to cure it of the drink evil. But at the same time,
                        if drink were taken away before the causes of drink were removed, there
                        would be an appalling increase in suicide—in insanity, in the
                        general total of human misery. For while drink retards the growth of
                        intelligent effort to end the stupidities in the social system, does it not
                        also help men and women to  bear the
                        consequences of those stupidities? Our crude and undeveloped new
                        civilization, strapping men and women and children to the machines and
                        squeezing all the energy out of them, all the capacity for vital life, casts
                        them aside as soon as they are useless but long before they are dead. How
                        unutterably wretched they would be without drink to give them illusions!
                    Susan grew fond of cigarettes, fond of whiskey; to the rest she after a few
                        weeks became numb—no new or strange phenomenon in a world where
                        people with a cancer or other hideous running sore or some gross and
                        frightful deformity of fat or excrescence are seen laughing, joining freely
                        and comfortably in the company of the unafflicted. In her affliction Susan
                        at least saw only those affected like herself—and that helped not a
                        little, helped the whiskey to confuse and distort her outlook upon life.
                    The old Cartesian formula—"I think, therefore I
                        am"—would come nearer to expressing a truth, were it
                        reversed—"I am, therefore I think." Our
                        characters are compressed, and our thoughts bent by our environment. And
                        most of us are unconscious of our slavery because our environment remains
                        unchanged from birth until death, and so seems the whole universe to us.
                    In spite of her life, in spite of all she did to disguise herself, there
                        persisted in her face—even when she was dazed or giddied or
                        stupefied with drink—the expression of the woman on the right side
                        of the line. Whether it was something in her character, whether it was not
                        rather due to superiority of breeding and intelligence, would be difficult
                        to say. However, there was the different look that
                        irritated many of the other girls, interfered with her business and made her
                        feel a hypocrite.  She heard so much about the
                        paleness of her lips that she decided to end that comment by using
                        paint—the durable kind Ida had recommended. When her lips flamed
                        carmine, a strange and striking effect resulted. The sad sweet pensiveness
                        of her eyes—the pallor of her clear skin—then, that splash
                        of bright red, artificial, bold, defiant—the contrast of the
                        combination seemed somehow to tell the story of her life—her past
                        no less than her present. And when her beauty began to come
                        back—for, hard though her life was, it was a life of good food, of
                        plenty of sleep, of much open air; so it put no such strain upon her as had
                        the life of the factory and the tenement—when her beauty came back,
                        the effect of that contrast of scarlet splash against the sad purity of
                        pallid cheeks and violet-gray eyes became a mark of individuality, of
                        distinction. It was not long before Susan would have as soon thought of
                        issuing forth with her body uncovered as with her lips unrouged.
                    She turned away from men who sought her a second time. She was difficult to
                        find, she went on "duty" only enough days each week to
                        earn a low average of what was expected from the girls by their protectors.
                        Yet she got many unexpected presents—and so had money to lend to
                        the other girls, who soon learned how "easy" she was.
                    Maud, sometimes at her own prompting, sometimes prompted by Jim, who was
                        prompted by Freddie—warned her every few days that she was skating
                        on the thinnest of ice. But she went her way. Not until she accompanied a
                        girl to an opium joint to discover whether dope had the merits claimed for
                        it as a dead-ener of pain and a producer of happiness—not until
                        then did Freddie come in person.
                    
                    "I hear," said he—and she wondered whether he had
                        heard from Max or from loose-tongued Maud—"that you come
                        into the hotel so drunk that men sometimes leave you right away
                        again—go without paying you."
                    "I must drink," said Susan.
                    "You must stop drink," retorted he,
                        amiable in his terrible way. "If you don't, I'll
                        have you pinched and sent up. That'll bring you to your
                        senses."
                    "I must drink," said Susan.
                    "Then I must have you pinched," said he with his mocking
                        laugh. "Don't be a fool," he went on.
                        "You can make money enough to soon buy the right sort of clothes so
                        that I can afford to be seen with you. I'd like to take you out
                        once in a while and give you a swell time. But what'd we look like
                        together—with you in those cheap things out of bargain troughs? Not
                        that you don't look well—for you do. But the rest of you
                        isn't up to your feet and to the look in your face. The whole
                        thing's got to be right before a lady can sit opposite me in Murray's or Rector's."
                    "All I ask is to be let alone," said Susan.
                    "That isn't playing square—and you've got
                        to play square. What I want is to set you up in a nice parlor
                        trade—chaps from the college and the swell clubs and hotels. But I
                        can't do anything for you as long as you drink this way.
                        You'll have to stay on the streets."
                    "That's where I want to stay."
                    "Well, there's something to be said for the
                        streets," Freddie admitted. "If a woman don't
                        intend to make sporting her life business, she don't want to get up
                        among the swells of the profession, where she'd become known and
                        find it hard to sidestep. Still, even in the street you ought to make a
                        hundred, easy—and not go with any man that doesn't suit
                        you."
                    
                    "Any man that doesn't suit me," said Susan. And,
                        after a pause, she said it again: "Any man that doesn't
                        suit me."
                    The young man, with his shrewdness of the street-graduate and his
                        sensitiveness of the Italian, gave her an understanding glance.
                        "You look as if you couldn't decide whether to laugh or
                        cry. I'd try to laugh if I was you."
                    She had laughed as he spoke.
                    Freddie nodded approval. "That sounded good to me. You're
                        getting broken in. Don't take yourself so seriously. After all,
                        what are you doing? Why, learning to live like a man."
                    She found this new point of view interesting—and true, too. Like a
                        man—like all men, except possibly a few—not enough
                        exceptions to change the rule. Like a man; getting herself hardened up to
                        the point where she could take part in the cruel struggle on equal terms
                        with the men. It wasn't their difference of body any more than it
                        was their difference of dress that handicapped women; it was the idea behind
                        skirt and sex—and she was getting rid of that. . . .
                    The theory was admirable; but it helped her not at all in practice. She
                        continued to keep to the darkness, to wait in the deep doorways, so far as
                        she could in her "business hours," and to repulse advances
                        in the day time or in public places—and to drink. She did not go
                        again to the opium joint, and she resisted the nightly offers of girls and
                        their "gentlemen friends" to try cocaine in its various
                        forms. "Dope," she saw, was the medicine of despair. And
                        she was far from despair. Had she not youth? Had she not health and
                        intelligence and good looks? Some day she would have finished her
                        apprenticeship. Then—the career!
                    
                    Freddie let her alone for nearly a month, though she was earning less than
                        fifty dollars a week—which meant only thirty for him. He had never
                        "collected" from her directly, but always through Jim; and
                        she had now learned enough of the methods of the system of which she was one
                        of the thousands of slaves to appreciate that she was treated by Jim with
                        unique consideration. Not only by the surly and brutal Jim, but also by the
                        police who oppressed in petty ways wherever they dared because they hated
                        Freddie's system which took away from them a part of the graft they
                        regarded as rightfully theirs.
                    Yes, rightfully theirs. And anyone disposed to be critical of police
                        morality—or of Freddie Palmer morality—in this matter of
                        graft would do well to pause and consider the source of his own income
                        before he waxes too eloquent and too virtuous. Graft is one of those general
                        words that mean everything and nothing. What is graft and what is honest
                        income? Just where shall we draw the line between rightful exploitation of
                        our fellow-beings through their necessities and their ignorance of their
                        helplessness, and wrongful exploitation? Do attempts to draw that line
                        resolve down to making virtuous whatever I may appropriate and vicious
                        whatever is appropriated in ways other than mine? And if so are not the
                        police and the Palmers entitled to their day in the moral court no less than
                        the tariff-baron and market-cornerer, the herder and driver of wage slaves,
                        the retail artists in cold storage filth, short weight and shoddy goods?
                        However, "we must draw the line somewhere" or there will
                        be no such thing as morality under our social system. So why not draw it at
                        anything the other fellow does to make money. In adopting this simple rule,
                        we not  only preserve the moralities from
                        destruction but also establish our own virtue and the other
                        fellow's villainy. Truly, never is the human race so delightfully,
                        so unconsciously, amusing as when it discusses right and wrong.
                    When she saw Freddie again, he was far from sober. He showed it by his way of
                        beginning. Said he:
                    "I've got to hand you a line of rough talk, Queenie. I took
                        on this jag for your especial benefit," said he.
                        "I'm a fool about you and you take advantage of it.
                        That's bad for both of us. . . You're drinking as much as
                        ever?"
                    "More," replied she. "It takes more and
                        more."
                    "How can you expect to get on?" cried he, exasperated.
                    "As I told you, I couldn't make a cent if I didn't
                        drink."
                    Freddie stared moodily at her, then at the floor—they were in her
                        room. Finally he said:
                    "You get the best class of men. I put my swell friends on to where
                        you go slipping by, up and down in the shadow—and it's all
                        they can do to find you. The best class of men—men all the swell
                        respectable girls in town are crazy to hook up with—those of
                        'em that ain't married already. If you're good
                        enough for those chaps they ought to be good enough for you. Yet some of
                        'em complain to me that they get thrown down—and others
                        kick because you were too full—and, damn it, you act so queer that
                        you scare 'em away. What am I to do about it?"
                    She was silent.
                    "I want you to promise me you'll take a brace.
                    No answer.
                    
                    "You won't promise?"
                    "No—because I don't intend to. I'm doing
                        the best I can."
                    "You think I'm a good thing. You think I'll take
                        anything off you, because I'm stuck on you—and appreciate
                        that you ain't on the same level with the rest of these heifers.
                        Well—I'll not let any woman con me. I never have. I never
                        will. And I'll make you realize that you're not square
                        with me. I'll let you get a taste of life as it is when a girl
                        hasn't got a friend with a pull."
                    "As you please," said Susan indifferently. "I
                        don't in the least care what happens to me."
                    "We'll see about that," cried he, enraged.
                        "I'll give you a week to brace up in."
                    The look he shot at her by way of finish to his sentence was menacing enough.
                        But she was not disturbed; these signs of anger tended to confirm her in her
                        sense of security from him. For it was wholly unlike the Freddie Palmer the
                        rest of the world knew, to act in this irresolute and stormy way. She knew
                        that Palmer, in his fashion, cared for her—better still, liked
                        her—liked to talk with her, liked to show—and to
                        develop—the aspiring side of his interesting, unusual nature for
                        her benefit.
                    A week passed, during which she did not see him. But she heard that he was
                        losing on both the cards and the horses and was drinking wildly. A
                        week—ten days—then—
                    One night, as she came out of a saloon a block or so down Seventh Avenue from
                        Forty-second, a fly cop seized her by the arm.
                    "Come along," said he roughly. "You're
                        drinking and soliciting. I've got to clear the streets of some of
                             these tarts. It's got so decent
                        people can't move without falling over 'em."
                    Susan had not lived in the tenement districts where the ignorance and the
                        helplessness and the lack of a voice that can make itself heard among the
                        ruling classes make the sway of the police absolute and there-fore
                        tyrannical—she had not lived there without getting something of
                        that dread and horror of the police which to people of the upper classes
                        seems childish or evidence of secret criminal hankerings. And this
                        nervousness had latterly been increased to terror by what she had learned
                        from her fellow-outcasts—the hideous tales of oppression, of
                        robbery, of bodily and moral degradation. But all this terror had been
                        purely fanciful, as any emotion not of experience proves to be when
                        experience evokes the reality. At that touch, at the sound of those rough
                        words—at that reality of the terror she had
                        imagined from the days when she went to work at Matson's and to
                        live with the Brashears, she straightway lost consciousness. When her senses
                        returned she was in a cell, lying on a wooden bench.
                    There must have been some sort of wild struggle; for her clothes were muddy,
                        her hat was crushed into shapelessness, her veil was so torn that she had
                        difficulty in arranging it to act as any sort of concealment. Though she had
                        no mirror at which to discover the consolation, she need have had no fear of
                        being recognized, so distorted were all her features by the frightful
                        paroxysms of grief that swept and ravaged her body that night. She fainted
                        again when they led her out to put her in the wagon.
                    She fainted a third time when she heard her name—"Queenie
                        Brown"—bellowed out by the court officer. They shook her
                        into consciousness, led her to court-room. 
                        She was conscious of a stifling heat, of a curious crowd staring at her with
                        eyes which seemed to bore red hot holes into her flesh. As she stood before
                        the judge, with head limp upon her bosom, she heard in her ear a rough voice
                        bawling, "You're discharged. The judge says don't
                        come here again." And she was pushed through an iron gate. She
                        walked unsteadily up the aisle, between two masses of those burning-eyed
                        human monsters. She felt the cold outside air like a vast drench of icy
                        water flung upon her. If it had been raining, she might have gone toward the
                        river. But than that day New York had never been more radiantly the City of
                        the Sun. How she got home she never knew, but late in the afternoon she
                        realized that she was in her own room.
                    Hour after hour she lay upon the bed, body and mind inert.
                        Helpless—no escape—no courage to live—yet no wish
                        to die. How much longer would it last? Surely the waking from this dream
                        must come soon.
                    About noon the next day Freddie came. "I let you off easy,"
                        said he, sitting on the bed upon which she was lying dressed as when she
                        came in the day before. "Have you been drinking
                        again?"
                    "No," she muttered.
                    "Well—don't. Next time, a week on the Island. . .
                        . Did you hear?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Don't turn me against you. I'd hate to have to
                        make an awful example of you."
                    "I must drink," she repeated in the same stolid way.
                    He abruptly but without shock lifted her to a sitting position. His arm held
                        her body up; her head was thrown back and her face was looking calmly at  him. She realized that he had been
                        drinking—drinking hard. Her eyes met his terrible eyes without
                        flinching. He kissed her full upon the lips. With her open palm she struck
                        him across the cheek, bringing the red fierily to its smooth fair surface.
                        The devil leaped into his eyes, the devil of cruelty and lust. He smiled
                        softly and wickedly. "I see you've forgotten the lesson I
                        gave you three months ago. You've got to be taught to be afraid all
                        over again."
                    "I am not afraid," said she. "I
                            was not afraid. You can't make me
                        afraid."
                    "We'll see," murmured he. And his fingers began to
                        caress her round smooth throat.
                    "If you ever strike me again," she said quietly,
                        "I'll kill you."
                    His eyes flinched for an instant—long enough to let her know his
                        innermost secret. "I want you—I want you—damn you," he said, between his clinched
                        teeth. "You're the first one I couldn't get.
                        There's something in you I can't get!"
                    "That's me," she replied.
                    "You hate me, don't you?"
                    "No."
                    "Then you love me?"
                    "No. I care nothing about you."
                    He let her drop back to the bed, went to the window, stood looking out
                        moodily. After a while he said without turning:
                    "My mother kept a book shop—on the lower East Side. She
                        brought me up at home. At home!" And he laughed sardonically.
                        "She hated me because I looked like my father."
                    Silence, then he spoke again:
                    "You've never been to my flat. I've got a swell
                        place.
                    
                    I want to cut out this part of the game. I can get along without it.
                        You're going to move in with me, and stop this street business. I
                        make good money. You can have everything you want."
                    "I prefer to keep on as I am."
                    "What's the difference? Aren't you mine whenever I
                        want you?"
                    "I prefer to be free."
                    
                        "Free! Why, you're not free.
                        Can't I send you to the Island any time I feel like
                        it—just as I can the other girls?"
                    "Yes—you can do that. But I'm free, all the
                        same."
                    "No more than the other girls."
                    "Yes."
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "Unless you understand, I couldn't make you see
                        it," she said. She was sitting on the edge of the bed, doing up her
                        hair, which had partly fallen down. "I think you do
                        understand."
                    "What in the hell do you want, anyhow?" he demanded.
                    "If I knew—do you suppose I'd be
                        here?"
                    He watched her with baffled, longing eyes. "What is it," he
                        muttered, "that's so damn peculiar about?"
                    It was the question every shrewd observant person who saw her put to himself
                        in one way or another; and there was excellent reason why this should have
                        been.
                    Life has a certain set of molds—lawyer, financier, gambler,
                        preacher, fashionable woman, prostitute, domestic woman, laborer, clerk, and
                        so on through a not extensive list of familiar types with which we all soon
                        become acquainted. And to one or another of these patterns life fits each of
                        us as we grow up. Not one  in ten thousand
                        glances into human faces is arrested because it has lit upon a personality
                        that cannot be immediately located, measured, accounted for. The reason for
                        this sterility of variety which soon makes the world rather monotonous to
                        the seeing eye is that few of us are born with any considerable amount of
                        personality, and what little we have is speedily suppressed by a system of
                        training which is throughout based upon an abhorrence of originality. We
                        obey the law of nature—and nature so abhors variety that, whenever
                        a variation from a type happens, she tries to kill it, and, that failing,
                        reproduces it a myriad times to make it a type. When an original man or
                        woman appears and all the strenuous effort to suppress him or her fails,
                        straightway spring up a thousand imitators and copiers, and the
                        individuality is lost in the school, the fashion, the craze. We have not the
                        courage to be ourselves, even where there is anything in us that might be
                        developed into something distinctive enough to win us the rank of real
                        identity. Individuality—distinction—where it does exist,
                        almost never shows until experience brings it out—just as up to a
                        certain stage the embryo of any animal is like that of every other animal,
                        though there is latent in it the most positive assertion of race and sex, of
                        family, type, and so on.
                    Susan had from childhood possessed certain qualities of physical beauty, of
                        spiritedness, of facility in mind and body—the not uncommon
                        characteristic of the child that is the flower of passionate love. But now
                        there was beginning to show in her a radical difference from the rest of the
                        crowd pouring through the streets of the city. It made the quicker observers
                        in the passing throng turn the head for a second and wondering  glance. Most of them assumed they had been
                        stirred by her superiority of face and figure. But striking faces and
                        figures of the various comely types are frequent in the streets of New York
                        and of several other American cities. The truth was that they were
                        interested by her expression—an elusive expression telling of a
                        soul that was being moved to its depths by experience which usually finds
                        and molds mere passive material. This expression was as evident in her mouth
                        as in her eyes, in her profile as in her full face. And as she sat there on
                        the edge of the bed twisting up her thick dark hair, it was this expression
                        that disconcerted Freddie Palmer, for the first time in all his contemptuous
                        dealings with the female sex. In his eyes was a ferocious desire to seize
                        her and again try to conquer and to possess.
                    She had become almost unconscious of his presence. He startled her by
                        suddenly crying, "Oh, you go to hell!" and flinging from
                        the room, crashing the door shut behind him.
                    Maud had grown tired of the haberdasher's clerk and his presumptions
                        upon her frank fondness which he wholly misunderstood. She had dropped him
                        for a rough looking waiter-singer in a basement drinking place. He was
                        beating her and taking all the money she had for herself, and was spending
                        it on another woman, much older than Maud and homely—and Maud knew,
                        and complained of him bitterly to everyone but himself. She was no longer
                        hanging round Susan persistently, having been discouraged by the failure of
                        her attempts at intimacy with a girl who spent nearly all her spare time at
                        reading or at plays and concerts. Maud was now chumming with a woman who
                        preyed  upon the patrons of a big Broadway
                        hotel—she picked them up near the entrance, robbed them, and when
                        they asked the hotel detectives to help them get back their stolen money,
                        the detectives, who divided with her, frightened them off by saying she was
                        a mulatto and would compel them to make a public appearance against her in
                        open court. This woman, older and harder than most of the girls, though of
                        quiet and refined appearance and manner, was rapidly dragging Maud down.
                        Also, Maud's looks were going because she ate irregularly all kinds
                        of trash, and late every night ate herself full to bursting and drank
                        herself drunk to stupe-faction.
                    Susan's first horror of the men she met—men of all
                        classes—was rapidly modified into an inconsistent, therefore
                        characteristically human, mingling of horror and tolerance. Nobody, nothing,
                        was either good or bad, but all veered like weathercocks in the shifting
                        wind. She decided that people were steadily good only where their lot
                        happened to be cast in a place in which the good wind held steadily, and
                        that those who were usually bad simply had the misfortune to have to live
                        where the prevailing winds were bad.
                    For instance, there was the handsome, well educated, well mannered young
                        prize-fighter, Ned Ballou, who was Estelle's
                        "friend." Ballou, big and gentle and as incapable of bad
                        humor as of constancy or of honesty about money matters, fought under the
                        name of Joe Geary and was known as Upper Cut Joe because usually, in the
                        third round, never later than the fifth, he gave the knockout to his
                        opponent by a cruelly swift and savage uppercut. He had educated himself
                        marvelously well. But he had been brought up among thieves and had by some
                        curious freak never learned to  know what a
                        moral sense was, which is one—and a not unattractive—step
                        deeper down than those who know what a moral sense is but never use it. At
                        supper in Gaffney's he related to Susan and Estelle how he had won
                        his greatest victory—the victory of Terry the Cyclone, that had
                        lifted him up into the class of secure money-makers. He told how he always
                        tried to "rattle" his opponent by talking to him, by
                        pouring out in an undertone a stream of gibes, jeers, insults. The afternoon
                        of the fight Terry's first-born had died, but the money for the
                        funeral expenses and to save the wife from the horrors and dangers of the
                        free wards had to be earned. Joe Geary knew that he must win this fight or
                        drop into the working or the criminal class. Terry was a "hard
                        one"; so circumstances compelled those desperate measures which
                        great men, from financiers and generals down to prize-fighters, do not
                        shrink from—else they would not be great, but small.
                    As soon as he was facing Terry in the ring Joe—so he related with
                        pride in his cleverness—began to
                        "guy"—"Well, you Irish fake—so
                        the kid's dead—eh? Who was its pa, say?—the dirty
                        little bastard—or does the wife know which one it
                        was—" and so on. And Terry, insane with grief and fury,
                        fought wild—and Joe became a champion.
                    As she listened Susan grew cold with horror and with hate. Estelle said:
                    "Tell the rest of it, Joe."
                    "Oh, that was nothing," replied he.
                    When he strolled away to talk with some friends Estelle told "the
                        rest" that was "nothing." The championship
                        secure, Joe had paid all Terry's bills, had supported Terry and his
                        wife for a year, had relapsed into old habits and "pulled off a
                        job" of safe-cracking  because, the
                        prize-fighting happening to pay poorly, he would have had a default on the
                        payments for a month or so. He was caught, did a year on the Island before
                        his "pull" could get him out. And all the time he was in
                        the "pen" he so arranged it with his friends that the
                        invalid Terry and his invalid wife did not suffer. And all this he had done
                        not because he had a sense of owing Terry, but because he was of the
                        "set" in which it is the custom to help anybody who
                        happens to need it, and aid begun becomes an obligation to "see it
                        through."
                    It was an extreme case of the moral chaos about her—the chaos she
                        had begun to discover when she caught her aunt and Ruth conspiring to take
                        Sam away from her.
                    What a world! If only these shifting, usually evil winds of circumstance
                        could be made to blow good!
                    A few evenings after the arrest Maud came for Susan, persuaded her to go out.
                        They dined at about the only good restaurant where unescorted women were
                        served after nightfall. Afterward they went "on duty." It
                        was fine overhead and the air was cold and bracing—one of those
                        marvelous New York winter nights which have the tonic of both sea and
                        mountains and an exhilaration, in addition, from the intense bright-burning
                        life of the mighty city. For more than a week there had been a steady
                        downpour of snow, sleet and finally rain. Thus, the women of the streets had
                        been doing almost no business. There was not much money in sitting in
                        drinking halls and the back rooms of saloons and picking up occasional men;
                        the best trade was the men who would not venture to show themselves in such
                        frankly disreputable places, but picked out women in the crowded streets and
                        followed  them to quiet dark places to make
                        the arrangements—men stimulated by good dinners, or, later on, in
                        the evening, those who left parties of elegant respectability after theater
                        or opera. On this first night of business weather in nearly two weeks the
                        streets were crowded with women and girls. They were desperately hard up and
                        they made open dashes for every man they could get at. All classes were made
                        equally bold—the shop and factory and office and theater girls with
                        wages too small for what they regarded as a decent living; the women with
                        young children to support and educate; the protected professional regulars;
                        the miserable creatures who had to get along as best they could without
                        protection, and were prey to every blackmailing officer of an anti-vice
                        society and to every policeman and fly-cop not above levying upon women who
                        were "too low to be allowed to live, anyhow." Out from all
                        kinds of shelters swarmed the women who were demonstrating how prostitution
                        flourishes and tends to spread to every class of society whenever education
                        develops tastes beyond the earning power of their possessors. And with
                        clothes and food to buy, rent to pay, dependents to support, these women, so
                        many days hampered in the one way that was open to them to get money, made
                        the most piteous appeals to the men. Not tearful appeals, not appeals to
                        sympathy or even to charity, but to passion. They sought in every way to
                        excite. They exhibited their carefully gotten-up legs; they made indecent
                        gestures; they said the vilest things; they offered the vilest inducements;
                        they lowered their prices down and down. And such men as did not order them
                        off with disdain, listened with laughter, made jokes at which the wretched
                        creatures laughed as gayly as if they were not mad with anxiety and were  not hating these men who were holding on to
                        that which they must have to live.
                    "Too many out tonight," said Maud as they walked their
                        beat—Forty-second between Broadway and Eighth Avenue. "I
                        knew it would be this way. Let's go in here and get
                        warm."
                    They went into the back room of a saloon where perhaps half a dozen women
                        were already seated, some of them gray with the cold against which their
                        thin showy garments were no protection. Susan and Maud sat at a table in a
                        corner; Maud broke her rule and drank whiskey with Susan. After they had
                        taken perhaps half a dozen drinks, Maud grew really confidential. She
                        always, even in her soberest moments, seemed to be telling everything she
                        knew; but Susan had learned that there were in her many deep secrets, some
                        of which not even liquor could unlock.
                    "I'm going to tell you something," she now said to
                        Susan. "You must promise not to give me away."
                    "Don't tell me," replied Susan. She was used to
                        being flattered—or victimized, according to the point of
                        view—with confidences. She assumed Maud was about to confess some
                        secret about her own self, as she had the almost universal habit of never
                        thinking of anyone else. "Don't tell me," said
                        she. "I'm tired of being used to air awful secrets. It
                        makes me feel like a tenement wash line."
                    "This is about you," said Maud. "If it's
                        ever found out that I put you wise, Jim'll have me killed.
                        Yes—killed."
                    Susan, reckless by this time, laughed. "Oh, trash!" she
                        said.
                    "No trash at all," insisted Maud. "When you know
                        this town through and through you'll know that murder's
                             something that can be arranged as easy as
                        buying a drink. What risk is there in making one of us
                        'disappear'? None in the world. I always feel that
                        Jim'll have me killed some day—unless I go crazy sometime
                        and kill him. He's stuck on me—or, at least, he's
                        jealous of me—and if he ever found out I had a
                        lover—somebody—anybody that didn't
                        pay—why, it'd be all up with me. Little Maud would go on
                        the grill."
                    She ordered and slowly drank another whiskey before she recalled what she had
                        set out to confide. By way of a fresh start she said, "What do you
                        think of Freddie?"
                    "I don't know," replied Susan. And it was the
                        truth. Her instinctive belief in a modified kind of fatalism made her
                        judgments of people—even of those who caused her to
                        suffer—singularly free from personal bitterness. Freddie, a mere
                        instrument of destiny, had his good side, his human side, she knew. At his
                        worst he was no worse than the others. And aside from his queer magnetism,
                        there was a certain force in him that compelled her admiration; at least he
                        was not one of the petty instruments of destiny. He had in him the same
                        quality she felt gestating within herself. "I don't know
                        what to think," she repeated.
                    Maud had been reflecting while Susan was casting about, as she had many a
                        time before, for her real opinion of her master who was in turn the slave of
                        Finnegan, who was in his turn the slave of somebody higher up, she
                        didn't exactly know who—or why—or the why of any
                        of it—or the why of the grotesque savage purposeless doings of
                        destiny in general. Maud now burst out:
                    "I don't care. I'm going to put you wise if I die
                        for it."
                    
                    "Don't," said Susan. "I don't
                        want to know."
                    "But I've got to tell you. Do you know
                        what Freddie's going to do?"
                    Susan smiled disdainfully. "I don't care. You
                        mustn't tell me—when you've been drinking this
                        way."
                    "Finnegan's police judge is a man named Bennett. As soon as
                        Bennett comes back to Jefferson Market Police Court, Freddie's
                        going to have you sent up for three months."
                    Susan's glass was on the way to her lips. She set it down again. The
                        drunken old wreck of an entertainer at the piano in the corner was bellowing
                        out his favorite song—"I Am the King of the
                        Vikings." Susan began to hum the air.
                    "It's gospel," cried Maud, thinking Susan did not
                        believe her. "He's a queer one, is Freddie.
                        They're all afraid of him. You'd think he was a coward,
                        the way he bullies women and that. But somehow he
                        ain't—not a bit. He'll be a big man in the
                        organization some day, they all say. He never lets up till he gets square.
                        And he thinks you're not square—after all he's
                        done for you."
                    "Perhaps not—as he looks at it," said Susan.
                    "And Jim says he's crazy in love with you, and that he
                        wants to put you where other men can't see you and where maybe he
                        can get over caring about you. That's the real reason.
                        He's a queer devil. But then all men are—though none quite
                        like Freddie."
                    "So I'm to go to the Island for three months,"
                        said Susan reflectively.
                    "You don't seem to care. It's plain you never was
                        there. . . . And you've got to go. There's no way out of
                        it—unless you skip to another city. And if you  did you never could come back here. Freddie'd see
                        that you got yours as soon as you landed."
                    Susan sat looking at her glass. Maud watched her in astonishment.
                        "You're as queer as Freddie," said she at length.
                        "I never feel as if I was acquainted with you—not really.
                        I never had a lady friend like that before. You don't seem to be a
                        bit excited about what Freddie's going to do. Are you in love with
                        him?"
                    Susan lifted strange, smiling eyes to Maud's curious gaze.
                        "I—in love—with a man," she said slowly. And then she laughed.
                    "Don't laugh that way," cried Maud. "It
                        gives me the creeps. What are you going to do?"
                    "What can I do?"
                    "Nothing."
                    "Then if there's nothing to do, I'll no
                        nothing."
                    "Go to the Island for three months?"
                    Susan shrugged her shoulders. "I haven't gone
                        yet." She rose. "It's too stuffy and smelly in
                        here," said she. "Let's move out."
                    "No. I'll wait. I promised to meet a gentleman friend here.
                        You'll not tell that I tipped you off?"
                    "You'd not have told me if you hadn't known I
                        wouldn't."
                    "That's so. But—why don't you make it up
                        with Freddie?"
                    "I couldn't do that."
                    "He's dead in love. I'm sure you
                        could."
                    Again Susan's eyes became strange. "I'm sure I
                        couldn't. Good night." She got as far as the door, came
                        back. "Thank you for telling me."
                    "Oh, that's all right," murmured the girl. She was
                        embarrassed by Susan's manner. She was frightened  by Susan's eyes. "You
                        ain't going to—" There she halted.
                    "What?"
                    "To jump off? Kill yourself?"
                    "Hardly," said Susan. "I've got a lot to
                        do before I die."
                    She went directly home. Palmer was lying on the bed, a cigarette between his
                        lips, a newspaper under his feet to prevent his boots from spoiling the
                        spread—one of the many small indications of the prudence, thrift
                        and calculation that underlay the almost insane recklessness of his surface
                        character, and that would save him from living as the fool lives and dying
                        as the fool dies.
                    "I thought you wouldn't slop round in these streets
                        long," said he, as she paused upon the threshold. "So I
                        waited."
                    She went to the bureau, unlocked the top drawer, took the ten-dollar bill she
                        had under some undershirts there, put it in her right stocking where there
                        were already a five and a two. She locked the drawer, tossed the key into an
                        open box of hairpins. She moved toward the door.
                    "Where are you going?" asked he, still staring at the
                        ceiling.
                    "Out. I've made almost nothing this week."
                    "Sit down. I want to talk to you."
                    She hesitated, seated herself on a chair near the bed.
                    He frowned at her. "You've been drinking?"
                    "Yes."
                    "I've been drinking myself, but I've got a nose
                        like a hunting dog. What do you do it for?"
                    "What's the use of explaining? You'd not
                        understand."
                    
                    "Perhaps I would. I'm one-fourth Italian—and they
                        understand everything. . . . You're fond of reading,
                        aren't you?"
                    "It passes the time."
                    "While I was waiting for you I glanced at your new
                        books—Emerson—Dickens—Zola." He was
                        looking toward the row of paper backs that filled almost the whole length of
                        the mantel. "I must read them. I always like your books. You spend
                        nearly as much time reading as I do—and you don't need it,
                        for you've got a good education. What do you read for? To amuse
                        yourself?"
                    "No."
                    "To get away from yourself?"
                    "No."
                    "Then why?" persisted he.
                    "To find out about myself."
                    He thought a moment, turned his face toward her. "You are clever!" he said admiringly.
                        "What's your game?"
                    "My game?"
                    "What are you aiming for? You've got too much sense not to
                        be aiming for something."
                    She looked at him; the expression that marked her as a person peculiar and
                        apart was glowing in her eyes like a bed of red-hot coals covered with
                        ashes.
                    "What?" he repeated.
                    "To get strong," replied she. "Women are born weak
                        and bred weaker. I've got to get over being a woman. For there
                        isn't any place in this world for a woman except under the shelter
                        of some man. And I don't want that." The underlying
                        strength of her features abruptly came into view. "And I
                        won't have it," she added.
                    
                    He laughed. "But the men'll never let you
                        be anything but a woman."
                    "We'll see," said she, smiling. The strong look
                        had vanished into the soft contour of her beautiful youth.
                    "Personally, I like you better when you've been
                        drinking," he went on. "You're sad when
                        you're sober. As you drink you liven up."
                    "When I get over being sad if I'm sober, when I learn to
                        take things as they come, just like a man—a strong man, then
                        I'll be—" She stopped.
                    "Be what?"
                    "Ready."
                    "Ready for what?"
                    "How do I know?"
                    He swung himself to a sitting position. "Meanwhile, you're
                        coming to live with me. I've been fighting against it, but I give
                        up. I need you. You're the one I've been looking for. Pack
                        your traps. I'll call a cab and we'll go over to my flat.
                        Then we'll go to Rector's and celebrate."
                    She shook her head. "I'm sorry, but I
                        can't."
                    "Why not?"
                    "I told you. There's something in me that won't
                        let me."
                    He rose, walked to her very deliberately. He took one of her hands from her
                        lap, drew her to her feet, put his hands strongly on her shoulders.
                        "You belong to me," he said, his lips smiling charmingly,
                        but the devil in the gleam of his eyes and in the glistening of his
                        beautiful, cruel teeth. "Pack up."
                    "You know that I won't."
                    He slowly crushed her in his arms, slowly pressed his lips upon hers. A low
                        scream issued from her lips and she seized him by the throat with both
                        hands, one  hand over the other, and thrust
                        him backward. He reeled, fell upon his back on the bed; she fell with him,
                        clung to him—like a bull dog—not as if she would not, but
                        as if she could not, let go. He clutched at her fingers; failing to dislodge
                        them, he tried to thrust his thumbs into her eyes. But she seized his right
                        thumb between her teeth and bit into it until they almost met. And at the
                        same time her knees ground into his abdomen. He choked, gurgled, grew dark
                        red, then gray, then a faint blackish blue, lay limp under her. But she did
                        not relax until the blue of his face had deepened to black and his eyes
                        began to bulge from their sockets. At those signs that he was beyond doubt
                        unconscious, she cautiously relaxed her fingers. She unclenched her teeth;
                        his arm, which had been held up by the thumb she was biting, dropped
                        heavily. She stood over him, her eyes blazing insanely at him. She snatched
                        out her hatpin, flung his coat and waistcoat from over his chest, felt for
                        his heart. With the murderous eight inches of that slender steel poniard
                        poised for the drive, she began to sob, flung the weapon away, took his face
                        between her hands and kissed him.
                    "You fiend! You fiend!" she sobbed.
                    She changed to her plainest dress. Leaving the blood-stained blouse on the
                        bed beside him where she had flung it down after tearing it off, she turned
                        out the light, darted down stairs and into the street. At Times Square she
                        took the Subway for the Bowery. To change one's world, one need not
                        travel far in New York; the ocean is not so wide as is the gap between the
                        Tenderloin and the lower East Side.
                
                
                
                    VIII
                    
                        SHE had thought of escape daily, hourly almost, for nearly
                        five months. She had advanced not an inch toward it; but she never for an
                        instant lost hope. She believed in her destiny, felt with all the strength
                        of her health and vitality that she had not yet found her place in the
                        world, that she would find it, and that it would be high. Now—she
                        was compelled to escape, and this with only seventeen dollars and in the
                        little time that would elapse before Palmer returned to consciousness and
                        started in pursuit, bent upon cruel and complete revenge. She changed to an
                        express train at the Grand Central Subway station, left the express on
                        impulse at Fourteenth Street, took a local to Astor Place, there ascended to
                        the street.
                    She was far indeed from the Tenderloin, in a region not visited by the people
                        she knew. As for Freddie, he never went below Fourteenth Street, hated the
                        lower East Side, avoided anyone from that region of his early days, now
                        shrouded in a mystery that would not be dispelled with his consent. Freddie
                        would not think of searching for her there; and soon he would believe she
                        was dead—drowned, and at the bottom of river or bay. As she stepped
                        from the exit of the underground, she saw in the square before her, under
                        the Sunset Cox statue, a Salvation Army corps holding a meeting. She heard a
                        cry from the center of the crowd:
                    "The wages of sin is death!"
                    She drifted into the fringe of the crowd and glanced at the little group of
                        exhorters and musicians. The  woman who was
                        preaching had taken the life of the streets as her text. Well fed and well
                        clad and certain of a clean room to sleep in—certain of a good
                        living, she was painting the moral horrors of the street life.
                    "The wages of sin is death!" she shouted.
                    She caught Susan's eye, saw the cynical-bitter smile round her lips.
                        For Susan had the feeling that, unsuspected by the upper classes, animates
                        the masses as to clergy and charity workers of all kinds—much the
                        same feeling one would have toward the robber's messenger who came
                        bringing from his master as a loving gift some worthless trifle from the
                        stolen goods. Not from clergy, not from charity worker, not from the life of
                        the poor as they take what is given them with hypocritical cringe and tear
                        of thanks, will the upper classes get the truth as to what is thought of
                        them by the masses in this day of awakening intelligence and slow heaving of
                        crusts so long firm that they have come to be regarded as bed-rock of social
                        foundation.
                    Cried the woman, in response to Susan's satirical look:
                    "You mock at that, my lovely young sister. Your lips are painted,
                        and they sneer. But you know I'm right—yes, you show in
                        your eyes that you know it in your aching heart! The wages of sin is death! Isn't that so, sister?"
                    Susan shook her head.
                    "Speak the truth, sister! God is watching you. The wages of sin is
                            death!"
                    
                    "The wages of weakness is death," retorted Susan.
                        "But—the wages of sin—well, it's
                        sometimes a house in Fifth Avenue."
                    And then she shrank away before the approving laughter of the little crowd
                        and hurried across into  Eighth Street. In the
                        deep shadow of the front of Cooper Union she paused, as the meaning of her
                        own impulsive words came to her. The wages of sin! And what was sin, the
                        supreme sin, but weakness? It was exactly as Burlingham had explained. He
                        had said that, whether for good or for evil, really to live one must be
                        strong. Strong!
                    What a good teacher he had been—one of the rare kind that not only
                        said things interestingly but also said them so that you never forgot. How
                        badly she had learned!
                    She strolled on through Eighth Street, across Third Avenue and into Second
                        Avenue. It was ten o'clock. The effects of the liquor she had drunk
                        had worn away. In so much wandering she had acquired the habit of closing up
                        an episode of life as a traveler puts behind him the railway journey at its
                        end. She was less than half an hour from her life in the Tenderloin; it was
                        as completely in her past as it would ever be. The cards had once more been
                        shuffled; a new deal was on.
                    A new deal. What? To fly to another city—that meant another Palmer,
                        or the miseries of the unprotected woman of the streets, or slavery to the
                        madman of what the French with cruel irony call a maison de
                            joie. To return to work—
                    What was open to her, educated as the comfortable classes educate their
                        women? Work meant the tenements. She loathed the fast life, but not as she
                        loathed vermin-infected tenements. To toil all day at a monotonous task, the
                        same task every day and all day long! To sleep at night with Tucker and the
                        vermin! To her notion the sights and sounds and smells and personal contacts
                        of the tenements were no less vicious; were—for her at
                        least—far more degrading than anything  in the Tenderloin and its like. And there she got money to buy whiskey
                        that whirled her almost endurably, sometimes even gayly, over the worst
                        things—money to buy hours, whole days of respite that could be
                        spent in books, in dreams and plannings, in the freedom of a clean and
                        comfortable room, or at the theater or concert. There were degrees in
                        horror; she was paying a hateful price, but not so hateful as she had paid
                        when she worked. The wages of shame were not so hard earned as the wages of
                        toil, were larger, brought her many of the things she craved. The wages of
                        toil brought her nothing but the right to bar existence in filth and
                        depravity and darkness. Also, she felt that if she were tied down to some
                        dull and exhausting employment, she would be settled and done for. In a few
                        years she would be an old woman, with less wages or flung out diseased or
                        maimed—to live on and on like hundreds of wretched old creatures
                        adrift everywhere in the tenement streets. No, work had nothing to offer
                        her—except "respectability." And what a mocking
                        was "respectability," in rags and filth! Besides, what had
                            she, the outcast born, to do with this
                        respectability?
                    No—not work—never again. So long as she was roving about,
                        there was hope and chance somehow to break through into the triumphant class
                        that ruled the world, that did the things worth while—wore the good
                        clothes, lived in the good houses, ate the good food, basked in the sunshine
                        of art.
                    Either she would soar above respectability, or she would remain beneath it.
                        Respectability might be an excellent thing; surely there must be some merit
                        in a thing about which there was so much talk, after which there was so much
                        hankering, and to which there was  such
                        desperate clinging. But as a sole possession, as a sole ambition, it seemed
                        thin and poor and even pitiful. She had emancipated herself from its
                        tyranny; she would not resume the yoke. Among so many lacks of the good
                        things of life its good would not be missed. Perhaps, when she had got a few
                        other of the good things she might try to add it to them—or might
                        find herself able to get comfortably along without it, as had George Eliot
                        and Aspasia, George Sand and Duse and Bernhardt and so many of the
                        world's company of self-elected women members of the triumphant
                        class.
                    A new deal! And a new deal meant at least even chance for good luck.
                    As she drifted down the west side of Second Avenue, her thoughts so absorbed
                        her that she was oblivious of the slushy sidewalk, even of the crossings
                        where one had to pick one's way as through a shallow creek with
                        stepping stones here and there. There were many women alone, as in every
                        other avenue and every frequented cross street throughout the
                        city—women made eager to desperation by the long stretch of
                        impossible weather. Every passing man was hailed, sometimes boldly,
                        sometimes softly. Again and again that grotesque phrase
                        "Let's go have a good time" fell upon the ears.
                        After several blocks, when her absent-mindedness had got her legs wet to the
                        knees in the shallow shiny slush, she was roused by the sound of
                        music—an orchestra playing and playing well a lively Hungarian
                        dance. She was standing before the winter garden from which the sounds came.
                        As she opened the door she was greeted by a rush of warm air pleasantly
                        scented with fresh tobacco smoke, the odors of spiced drinks and of food,
                        pastry predominating. Some of  the tables were
                        covered ready for those who would wish to eat; but many of them were for the
                        drinkers. The large, low-ceilinged room was comfortably filled. There were
                        but a few women and they seemed to be wives or sweethearts. Susan was about
                        to retreat when a waiter—one of those Austrians whose heads end
                        abruptly an inch or so above the eyebrows and whose chins soon shade off
                        into neck—advanced smilingly with a polite, "We serve
                        ladies without escorts."
                    She chose a table that had several other vacant tables round it. On the
                        recommendation of the waiter she ordered a "burning
                        devil"; he assured her she would find it delicious and the very
                        thing for a cold slushy night. At the far end of the room on a low platform
                        sat the orchestra. A man in an evening suit many sizes too large for him
                        sang in a strong, not disagreeable tenor a German song that drew loud
                        applause at the end of each stanza. The "burning devil"
                        came—an almost black mixture in a large heavy glass. The waiter
                        touched a match to it, and it was at once wreathed in pale flickering flames
                        that hovered like but—terflies, now rising as if to float away, now
                        lightly descending to flit over the surface of the liquid or to dance along
                        the edge of the glass.
                    "What shall I do with it?" said Susan.
                    "Wait till it goes out," said the waiter. "Then
                        drink, as you would anything else." And he was off to attend to the
                        wants of a group of card players a few feet away.
                    Susan touched her finger to the glass, when the flame suddenly vanished. She
                        found it was not too hot to drink, touched her lips to it. The taste,
                        sweetish, suggestive of coffee and of brandy and of burnt sugar, was
                        agreeable. She slowly sipped it, delighting in  the sensation of warmth, of comfort, of well being that speedily diffused
                        through her. The waiter came to receive her thanks for his advice. She said
                        to him:
                    "Do you have women sing, too?"
                    "Oh, yes—when we can find a good-looker with a voice. Our
                        customers know music."
                    "I wonder if I could get a trial?"
                    The waiter was interested at once. "Perhaps. You sing?"
                    "I have sung on the stage."
                    "I'll ask the boss."
                    He went to the counter near the door where stood a short thick-set Jew of the
                        East European snub-nosed type in earnest conversation with a seated blonde
                        woman. She showed that skill at clinging to youth which among the lower
                        middle and lower classes pretty clearly indicates at least some experience
                        at the fast life. For only in the upper and upper middle class does a
                        respectable woman venture thus to advertise so suspicious a guest within as
                        a desire to be agreeable in the sight of men. Susan watched the waiter as he
                        spoke to the proprietor, saw the proprietor's impatient shake of
                        the head, sent out a wave of gratitude from her heart when her waiter friend
                        persisted, compelled the proprietor to look toward her. She affected an air
                        of unconsciousness; in fact, she was posing as if before a camera. Her heart
                        leaped when out of the corner of her eye she saw the proprietor coming with
                        the waiter. The two paused at her table, and the proprietor said in a sharp,
                        impatient voice:
                    "Well, lady—what is it?"
                    "I want a trial as a singer."
                    
                    The proprietor was scanning her features and her figure which was well
                        displayed by the tight-fitting jacket. The result seemed satisfactory, for
                        in a voice oily with the softening influence of feminine charm upon male, he
                        said:
                    "You've had experience?"
                    "Yes—a lot of it. But I haven't sung in about two
                        years."
                    "Sing German?"
                    "Only ballads in English. But I can learn anything."
                    "English'll do—if you can sing. What costume do you wear?" And the
                        proprietor seated himself and motioned the waiter away.
                    "I have no costume. As I told you, I've not been singing
                        lately."
                    "We've got one that might fit—a short blue silk
                        skirt—low neck and blue stockings. Slippers too, but they might be
                        tight—I forget the number."
                    "I did wear threes. But I've done a great deal of walking.
                        I wear a five now." Susan thrust out a foot and ankle, for she knew
                        that despite the overshoe they were good to look at.
                    The proprietor nodded approvingly and there was the note of personal interest
                        in his voice as he said: "They can try your voice tomorrow morning.
                        Come at ten o'clock."
                    "If you decide to try me, what pay will I get?"
                    The proprietor smiled slyly. "Oh, we don't pay anything to
                        the singers. That man who sang—he gets his board here. He works in
                        a factory as a bookkeeper in the daytime. Lots of theatrical and musical
                        people come here. If a man or a girl can do any stunt worth while,
                        there's a chance."
                    
                    "I'd have to have something more than board," said
                        Susan.
                    The proprietor frowned down at his stubby fingers whose black and cracked
                        nails were drumming on the table. "Well—I might give you a
                        bed. There's a place I could put one in my daughter's
                        room. She sings and dances over at Louis Blanc's garden in Third
                        Avenue. Yes, I could put you there. But—no privileges, you
                        understand."
                    "Certainly. . . . I'll decide tomorrow. Maybe
                        you'll not want me."
                    "Oh, yes—if you can sing at all. Your looks'd
                        please my customers." Seeing the dubious expression in
                        Susan's face, he went on, "When I say 'no
                        privilege' I mean only about the room. Of course, it's
                        none of my business what you do outside. Lots of well fixed gents comes
                        here. My girls have all had good luck. I've been open two years,
                        and in that time one of my singers got an elegant delicatessen owner to keep
                        her."
                    "Really," said Susan, in the tone that was plainly expected
                        of her.
                    "Yes—an elegant gentleman. I'd
                        not be surprised if he married her. And another married an electrician that
                        cops out forty a week. You'll find it a splendid chance to make
                        nice friends—good spenders. And I'm a practical
                        man."
                    "I suppose there isn't any work I could do in the
                        daytime?"
                    "Not here."
                    "Perhaps—"
                    "Not nowhere, so far as I know. That is, work you'd care to
                        do. The factories and stores is hard on a woman, and she don't get
                        much. And besides they  ain't very
                        classy to my notion. Of course, if a woman ain't got looks or sense
                        or any tone to her, if she's satisfied to live in a bum tenement
                        and marry some dub that can't make nothing, why, that's
                        different. But you look like a woman that had been used to something and
                        wanted to get somewhere. I wouldn't have let my
                        daughter go into no such low, foolish life."
                    She had intended to ask about a place to stop for the night. She now decided
                        that the suggestion that she was homeless might possibly impair her chances.
                        After some further conversation—the proprietor repeating what he
                        had already said, and repeating it in about the same language—she
                        paid the waiter fifteen cents for the drink and a tip of five cents out of
                        the change she had in her purse, and departed. It had clouded over, and a
                        misty, dismal rain was trickling through the saturated air to add to the
                        messiness of the churn of cold slush. Susan went on down Second Avenue. On a
                        corner near its lower end she saw a Raines Law hotel with awnings,
                        indicating that it was not merely a blind to give a saloon a hotel license
                        but was actually open for business. She went into the
                        "family" entrance of the saloon, was alone in a small
                        clean sitting-room with a sliding window between it and the bar. A tough but
                        not unpleasant young face appeared at the window. It was the bartender.
                    "Evening, cutie," said he. "What'll you
                        have?"
                    "Some rye whiskey," replied Susan. "May I smoke a
                        cigarette here?"
                    "Sure, go as far as you like. Ten-cent whiskey—or
                        fifteen?"
                    "Fifteen—unless it's out of the same bottle as the
                        ten."
                    
                    "Call it ten—seeing as you are a lady. I've got a
                        soft heart for you ladies. I've got a wife in the business,
                        myself."
                    When he came in at the door with the drink, a young man followed
                        him—a good-looking, darkish youth, well dressed in a ready made
                        suit of the best sort. At second glance Susan saw that he was at least
                        partly of Jewish blood, enough to elevate his face above the rather dull
                        type which predominates among clerks and merchants of the Christian races.
                        He had small, shifty eyes, an attractive smile, a manner of assurance
                        bordering on insolence. He dropped into a chair at Susan's table
                        with a, "You don't mind having a drink on
                        me."
                    As Susan had no money to spare, she acquiesced. She said to the bartender,
                        "I want to get a room here—a plain room. How
                        much?"
                    "Maybe this gent'll help you out," said the
                        bartender with a grin and a wink. "He's got money to
                        burn—and burns it."
                    The bartender withdrew. The young man struck a match and held it for her to
                        light the cigarette she took from her purse. Then he lit one himself.
                        "Next time try one of mine," said he. "I get
                        'em of a fellow that makes for the swellest uptown houses. But I
                        get 'em ten cents a package instead of forty. I haven't
                        seen you down here before. What a good skin you've got!
                        It's been a long time since I've seen a skin as fine as
                        that, except on a baby now and then. And that shape of yours is all right,
                        too. I suppose it's the real goods?"
                    With that he leaned across the table and put his hand upon her bosom. She
                        drew back indifferently.
                    
                    "You don't give anything for nothing—eh?"
                        laughed he. "Been in the business long?"
                    "It seems long."
                    "It ain't what it used to be. The competition's
                        getting to be something fierce. Looks as if all the respectable girls and
                        most of the married women were coming out to look for a little extra money.
                        Well—why not?"
                    Susan shrugged her shoulders. "Why not?" echoed she
                        carelessly.
                    She did not look forward with pleasure to being alone. The man was clean and
                        well dressed, and had an unusual amount of personal charm that softened his
                        impertinence of manner. Evidently he had the habit of success with women.
                        She much preferred him sitting with her to her own depressing society. So
                        she accepted his invitation. She took one of his cigarettes, and it was as
                        good as he had said. He rattled on, mingling frank coarse compliments with
                        talk about "the business" from a standpoint so practical
                        that she began to suspect he was somehow in it himself. He clearly belonged
                        to those more intelligent children of the upper class tenement people, the
                        children who are too bright and too well educated to become working-men and
                        working women like their parents; they refuse to do any kind of manual
                        labor, as it could never in the most favorable circumstances pay well enough
                        to give them the higher comforts they crave, the expensive comforts which
                        every merchant is insistently and temptingly thrusting at a public for the
                        most part too poor to buy; so these cleverer children of the working class
                        develop into shyster lawyers, politicians, sports, prostitutes, unless
                        chance throws into their way some respectable means of getting money.
                        Vaguely she wondered—without  caring
                        to question or guess what particular form of activity this young man had
                        taken in avoiding monotonous work at small pay.
                    After her second drink came she found that she did not want it. She felt
                        tired and sleepy and wished to get her wet stockings off and to dry her
                        skirt which, for all her careful holding up, had not escaped the fate of
                        whatever was exposed to that abominable night. "I'm going
                        along with you," said the young man as she rose.
                        "Here's to our better acquaintance."
                    "Thanks, but I want to be alone," replied she affably. And,
                        not to seem unappreciative of his courtesy, she took a small drink from her
                        glass. It tasted very queer. She glanced suspiciously at the young man. Her
                        legs grew suddenly and strangely heavy; her heart began to beat violently,
                        and a black fog seemed to be closing in upon her eyes. Through it she saw
                        the youth grinning sardonically. And instantly she knew. "What a
                        fool I am!" she thought.
                    She had been trapped by another form of the slave system. This man was a
                        recruiting sergeant for houses of prostitution—was one of the
                        "cadets." They search the tenement districts for
                        good-looking girls and young women. They hang about the street corners,
                        flirting. They attend the balls where go the young people of the lower
                        middle class and upper lower class. They learn to make love seductively;
                        they understand how to tempt a girl's longing for finery, for an
                        easier life, her dream of a husband above her class in looks and in earning
                        power. And for each recruit "broken in" and hardened to
                        the point of willingness to go into a sporting house, they get from the
                        proprietor ten to twenty-five dollars according to her youth and beauty.  Susan knew all about the system, had heard
                        stories of it from the lips of girls who had been embarked through
                        it—embarked a little sooner than they would have embarked under the
                        lash of want, or of that other and almost equally compelling brute, desire
                        for the comforts and luxuries that mean decent living. Susan knew; yet here
                        she was, because of an unguarded moment, and because of a sense of security
                        through experience—here she was, succumbing to knockout drops as
                        easily as the most innocent child lured away from its mother's door
                        to get a saucer of ice cream! She tried to rise, to scream, though she knew
                        any such effort was futile.
                    With a gasp and a sigh her head fell forward and she was unconscious.
                    She awakened in a small, rather dingy room. She was lying on her back with
                        only stockings on. Beyond the foot of the bed was a little bureau at which a
                        man, back full to her, stood in trousers and shirt sleeves tying his
                        necktie. She saw that he was a rough looking man, coarsely
                        dressed—an artisan or small shop-keeper. Used as she was to the
                        profound indifference of men of all classes and degrees of education and
                        intelligence to what the woman thought—used as she was to this
                        sensual selfishness which men at least in part conceal from their
                        respectable wives, Susan felt a horror of this man who had not minded her
                        unconsciousness. Her head was aching so fiercely that she had not the
                        courage to move. Presently the man turned toward her a kindly, bearded face.
                        But she was used to the man of general good character who with little shame
                        and no hesitation became beast before her, the free woman.
                    
                    "Hello, pretty!" cried he, genially. "Slept off
                        your jag, have you?"
                    He was putting on his coat and waistcoat. He took from the waistcoat pocket a
                        dollar bill. "You're a peach," said he.
                        "I'll come again, next time my old lady goes off
                        guard." He made the bill into a pellet, dropped it on her breast.
                        "A little present for you. Put it in your stocking and
                        don't let the madam grab it."
                    With a groan Susan lifted herself to a sitting position, drew the spread
                        about her—a gesture of instinct rather than of conscious modesty.
                        "They drugged me and brought me here," said she.
                        "I want you to help me get out."
                    "Good Lord!" cried the man, instantly all a-quiver with
                        nervousness. "I'm a married man. I don't want to
                        get mixed up in this." And out of the room he bolted, closing the
                        door behind him.
                    Susan smiled at herself satirically. After all her experience, to make this
                        silly appeal—she who knew men! "I must be getting
                        feeble-minded," thought she. Then—
                    Her clothes! With a glance she swept the little room. No closet! Her own
                        clothes gone! On the chair beside the bed a fast-house parlor dress of pink
                        cotton silk, and a kind of abbreviated chemise. The stockings on her legs
                        were not her own, but were of pink cotton, silk finished. A pair of pink
                        satin slippers stood on the floor beside the two galvanized iron wash
                        basins.
                    The door opened and a burly man, dressed in cheap ready-made clothes but with
                        an air of authority and prosperity, was smiling at her. "The madam
                        told me to walk right in and make myself at home," said he.
                    
                    "Yes, you're up to her account of you. Only she said you
                        were dead drunk and would probably be asleep. Now, honey, you treat me right
                        and I'll treat you right."
                    "Get out of here!" cried Susan. "I'm
                        going to leave this house. They drugged me and brought me
                        here."
                    "Oh, come now. I've got nothing to do with your quarrels
                        with the landlady. Cut those fairy tales out. You treat me right
                        and—"
                    A few minutes later in came the madam. Susan, exhausted, sick, lay inert in
                        the middle of the bed. She fixed her gaze upon the eyes looking through the
                        hideous mask of paint and powder partially concealing the madam's
                        face.
                    "Well, are you going to be a good girl now?" said the
                        madam.
                    "I want to sleep," said Susan.
                    "All right, my dear." She saw and snatched the five-dollar
                        bill from the pillow. "It'll go toward paying your board
                        and for the parlor dress. God, but you was drunk when they brought you up
                        from the bar!"
                    "When was that?" asked Susan.
                    "About midnight. It's nearly four now. We've shut
                        the house for the night. You're in a first-rate house, my dear, and
                        if you behave yourself, you'll make money—a lot more than
                        you ever could at a dive like Zeist's. If you don't
                        behave—well, we'll teach you how. This building belongs to
                        one of the big men in politics, and he looks after my interests—and
                        he ought to, considering the rent I pay—five hundred a
                        month—for the three upper floors. The bar's let separate.
                        Would you like a nice drink?"
                    "No," said Susan. Trapped! Hopelessly trapped!  And she would never escape until, diseased,
                        her looks gone, ruined in body and soul, she was cast out into the hospital
                        and the gutter.
                    "As I was saying," ventured the madam, "you might
                        as well settle down quietly."
                    "I'm very well satisfied," said Susan. "I
                        suppose you'll give me a square deal on what I make." She
                        laughed quietly as if secretly amused at something. "In fact, I
                        know you will," she added in a tone of amused confidence.
                    "As soon as you've paid up your twenty-five a week for room
                        and board and the fifty for the parlor dress—"
                    Susan interrupted her with a laugh. "Oh, come off," said
                        she. "I'll not stand for that. I'll go back to
                        Jim Finnegan."
                    The old woman's eyes pounced for her face instantly. "Do
                        you know Finnegan?"
                    "I'm his girl," said Susan carelessly. She
                        stretched herself and yawned. "I got mad at him and started out for
                        some fun. He's a regular damn fool about me. But I'm sick
                        of him. Anything but a jealous man! And spied on everywhere I go. How much
                        can I make here?"
                    "Ain't you from Zeist's?" demanded the
                        madam. Her voice was quivering with fright. She did not dare believe the
                        girl; she did not dare disbelieve her.
                    "Zeist's? What's that?" said Susan
                        indifferently.
                    "The joint two blocks down. Hasn't Joe Bishop had you in
                        there for a couple of months?"
                    Susan yawned. "Lord, how my head does ache! Who's Joe
                        Bishop? I'm dead to the world. I must have had an awful
                        jag!" She turned on her side, drew the spread over her. "I
                        want to sleep. So long!"
                    
                    "Didn't you run away from home with Joe Bishop?"
                        demanded the madam shrilly. "And didn't he put you to work
                        for Zeist?"
                    "Who's Joe Bishop? Where's
                        Zeist's?" Susan said, cross and yawning.
                    "I've been with Jim about a year. He took me off the
                        street. I was broke in five years ago."
                    The madam gave a kind of howl. "And that Joe Bishop got twenty-five
                        off me!" she screamed. "And you're
                        Finnegan's girl, and he'll make trouble for
                        me."
                    "He's got a nasty streak in him," said Susan,
                        drowsily. "He put me on the Island once for a little side trip I
                        made." She laughed, yawned. "But he sent and got me out in
                        two days—and gave me a present of a hundred. It's funny
                        how a man'll make a fool of himself about a woman. Put out the
                        light."
                    "No, I won't put out the light," shrieked the
                        madam. "You can't work here. I'm going to
                        telephone Jim Finnegan to come and get you."
                    Susan started up angrily, as if she were half-crazed by drink. "If
                        you do, you old hag," she cried, "I'll tell him
                        you doped me and set these men on me. I'll tell him about Joe
                        Bishop. And Jim'll send the whole bunch of you to the pen.
                        I'll not go back to him till I get good and ready. And that means,
                        I won't go back at all, no matter what he offers me." She
                        began to cry in a maudlin way. "I hate him. I'm tired of
                        living as if I was back in the convent."
                    The madam stood, heaving to and fro and blowing like a chained elephant.
                        "I don't know what to do," she whined.
                        "I wish Joe Bishop was in hell."
                    "I'm going to get out of here," shrieked Susan,
                             raving and blazing again and waving her
                        arms. "You don't know a good thing when you get it. What
                        kind of a bum joint is this, anyway? Where's my clothes? They must
                        be dry by this time."
                    "Yes—yes-they're dry, my dear," whined
                        the madam. "I'll bring 'em to you."
                    And out she waddled, returning in a moment with her arms full of the
                        clothing. She found Susan in the bed and nestling comfortably into the
                        pillows. "Here are your clothes," she cried.
                    "No—I want to sleep," was Susan's answer
                        in a cross, drowsy tone. "I think I'll stay. You
                        won't telephone Jim. But when he finds me, I'll tell him
                        to go to the devil."
                    "For God's sake!" wailed the madam. "I
                        can't let you work here. You don't want to ruin me, do
                        you?"
                    Susan sat up, rubbed her eyes, yawned, brushed her hair back, put a sly,
                        smiling look into her face. "How much'll you give me to
                        go?" she asked. "Where's the fifteen that was in
                        my stocking?"
                    "I've got it for you," said the madam.
                    "How much did I make tonight?"
                    "There was three at five apiece."
                    Three!—not only the two, but a third while she lay in a dead stupor.
                        Susan shivered.
                    "Your share's four dollars," continued the
                        madam.
                    "Is that all!" cried Susan, jeering. "A bum joint!
                        Oh, there's my five the man gave me as a present."
                    "Yes—yes," quavered the madam.
                    "And another man gave me a dollar." She looked round.
                        "Where the devil is it?" She found it in a fold of the
                        spread. "Then you owe me twenty altogether, counting the money I
                        had on me." She yawned.  "I
                        don't want to go!" she protested, pausing halfway in
                        taking off the second pink stocking. Then she laughed. "Lord, what
                        hell Jim will raise if he finds I spent the night working in this house. Why
                        is it that, as soon as men begin to care for a woman, they get prim about
                        her?"
                    "Do get dressed, dear," wheedled the madam.
                    "I don't see why I should go at this time of
                        night," objected Susan pettishly. "What'll you
                        give me if I go?"
                    The madam uttered a groan.
                    "You say you paid Joe Bishop twenty-five—"
                    "I'll kill him!" shrieked the madam.
                        "He's ruined me—ruined me!"
                    "Oh, he's all right," said Susan cheerfully.
                        "I like him. He's a pretty little fellow. I'll
                        not give him away to Jim."
                    "Joe was dead stuck on you," cried, the madam eagerly.
                        "I might 'a' knowed he hadn't seen you
                        before. I had to pay him the twenty-five right away, to get him out of the
                        house and let me put you to work. He wanted to stay on."
                    Susan shivered, laughed to hide it. "Well, I'll go for
                        twenty-five."
                    "Twenty-five!" shrieked the madam.
                    "You'll get it back from Joe."
                    "Maybe I won't. He's a dog—a dirty
                        dog."
                    "I think I told Joe about Jim," said Susan reflectively.
                        "I was awful gabby downstairs. Yes—I told
                        him."
                    And her lowered eyes gleamed with satisfaction when the madam cried out:
                        "You did! And after that he brought you here! He's got it
                        in for me. But I'll ruin him! I'll tear him
                        up!"
                    
                    Susan dressed with the utmost deliberation, the madam urging her to make
                        haste. After some argument, Susan yielded to the madam's pleadings
                        and contented herself with the twenty dollars. The madam herself escorted
                        Susan down to the outside door and slathered her with sweetness and
                        politness. The rain had stopped again. Susan went up Second Avenue slowly.
                        Two blocks from the dive from which she had escaped, she sank down on a
                        stoop and fainted.
                
                
                
                    IX
                    
                        THE dash of cold rain drops upon her face and the chill of
                        moisture soaking through her clothing revived her. Throughout the whole
                        range of life, whenever we resist we suffer. As Susan dragged her aching,
                        cold wet body up from that stoop, it seemed to her that each time she
                        resisted the penalty grew heavier. Could she have been more wretched had she
                        remained in that dive? From her first rebellion that drove her out of her
                        uncle's house had she ever bettered herself by resisting? She had
                        gone from bad to worse, from worse to worst.
                    Worst? "This must be the worst!" she
                        thought. "Surely there can be no lower depth than where I am
                        now." And then she shuddered and her soul reeled. Had she not
                        thought this at each shelf of the precipice down which she had been falling?
                        "Has it a bottom? Is there no bottom?"
                    Wet through, tired through, she put up her umbrella and forced herself feebly
                        along. "Where am I going? Why do I not kill myself? What is it that
                        drives me on and on?"
                    There came no direct answer to that last question. But up from those deep
                        vast reservoirs of vitality that seemed sufficient whatever the drain upon
                        them—up from those reservoirs welled strength and that unfaltering
                        will to live which breathes upon the corpse of hope and quickens it. And she
                        had a sense of an invisible being, a power that had her in charge, a
                        destiny, walking beside her, holding up her 
                        drooping strength, compelling her toward some goal hidden in the fog and the
                        storm.
                    At Eighth Street she turned west; at Third Avenue she paused, waiting for
                        chance to direct her. Was it not like the maliciousness of fate that in the
                        city whose rarely interrupted reign of joyous sunshine made her call it the
                        city of the Sun her critical turn of chance should have fallen in foul
                        weather? Evidently fate was resolved on a thorough test of her endurance. In
                        the open square, near the Peter Cooper statue, stood a huge all-night lunch
                        wagon. She moved toward it, for she suddenly felt hungry. It was drawn to
                        the curb; a short flight of ladder steps led to an interior attractive to
                        sight and smell. She halted at the foot of the steps and looked in. The only
                        occupant was the man in charge. In a white coat he was leaning upon the
                        counter, reading a newspaper which lay flat upon it. His bent head was
                        extensively and roughly thatched with black hair so thick that to draw a
                        comb through it would have been all but impossible. As Susan let down her
                        umbrella and began to ascend, he lifted his head and gave her a full view of
                        a humorous young face, bushy of eyebrows and mustache and darkly stained by
                        his beard, close shaven though it was. He looked like a Spaniard or an
                        Italian, but he was a black Irishman, one of the West coasters who recall in
                        their eyes and coloring the wrecking of the Armada.
                    "Good morning, lady," said he. "Breakfast or
                        supper?"
                    "Both," replied Susan. "I'm
                        starved."
                    The air was gratefully warm in the little restaurant on wheels. The dominant
                        odor was of hot coffee; but that aroma was carried to a still higher delight
                        by a suggestion of pastry. "The best thing I've
                        got," said  the restaurant man,
                        "is hot corn beef hash. It's so good I hate to let any of
                        it go. You can have griddle cakes, too—and coffee, of
                        course."
                    "Very well," said Susan.
                    She was ascending upon a wave of reaction from the events of the night. Her
                        headache had gone. The rain beating upon the roof seemed musical to her now,
                        in this warm shelter with its certainty of the food she craved.
                    The young man was busy at the shiny, compact stove; the odors of the good
                        things she was presently to have grew stronger and stronger, stimulating her
                        hunger, bringing joy to her heart and a smile to her eyes. She wondered at
                        herself. After what she had passed through, how could she feel thus
                        happy—yes, positively happy? It seemed to her this was an
                        indication of a lack in her somewhere—of seriousness, of
                        sensibility, of she knew not what. She ought to be ashamed of that lack. But
                        she was not ashamed. She was shedding her troubles like a child—or
                        like a philosopher.
                    "Do you like hash?" inquired the restaurant man over his
                        shoulder.
                    "Just as you're making it," said she.
                        "Dry but not too dry. Brown but not too brown."
                    "You don't think you'd like a poached egg on top
                        of it?"
                    "Exactly what I want!"
                    "It isn't everybody that can poach an egg," said
                        the restaurant man. "And it isn't every egg that can be
                        poached. Now, my eggs are the real thing. And I can poach 'em so
                        you'd think they was done with one of them poaching machines. I
                        don't have 'em with the yellow on a slab of white. I do it
                        so that the white's  all round the
                        yellow, like in the shell. And I keep 'em tender, too. Did you say
                        one egg or a pair?"
                    "Two," said Susan.
                    The dishes were thick, but clean and whole. The hash—"dry
                        but not too dry, brown but not too brown"—was artistically
                        arranged on its platter, and the two eggs that adorned its top were
                        precisely as he had promised. The coffee, boiled with the milk, was real
                        coffee, too. When the restaurant man had set these things before her, as she
                        sat expectant on a stool, he viewed his handiwork with admiring eyes.
                    "Delmonico couldn't beat it," said he.
                        "No, nor Oscar, neither. That'll take the tired look out
                        of your face, lady, and bring the beauty back."
                    Susan ate slowly, listening to the music of the beating rain. It was like an
                        oasis, a restful halt between two stretches of desert journey; she wished to
                        make it as long as possible. Only those who live exposed to life's
                        buffetings ever learn to enjoy to the full the great little pleasures of
                        life—the halcyon pauses in the storms—the few bright rays
                        through the break in the clouds, the joy of food after hunger, of a bath
                        after days of privation, of a jest or a smiling face or a kind word or deed
                        after darkness and bitterness and contempt. She saw the restaurant
                        man's eyes on her, a curious expression in them.
                    "What's the matter?" she inquired.
                    "I was thinking," said he, "how miserable you must
                        have been to be so happy now."
                    "Oh, I guess none of us has any too easy a time," said
                        she.
                    "But it's mighty hard on women. I used to think different,
                        before I had bad luck and got down to tending this lunch wagon. But now I
                        understand about a  lot of things.
                        It's all very well for comfortable people to talk about what a man
                        or a woman ought to do and oughtn't to do. But let 'em be
                        slammed up against it. They'd sing a different
                        song—wouldn't they?"
                    "Quite different," said Susan.
                    The man waved a griddle spoon. "I tell you, we do what
                        we've got to do. Yes—the thieves
                        and—and—all of us. Some's used for foundations
                        and some for roofing and some for inside fancy work and some for outside
                        wall. And some's used for the rubbish heap. But all's
                        used. They do what they've got to do. I was a great hand at
                        worrying what I was going to be used for. But I don't bother about
                        it any more." He began to pour the griddle cake dough. "I
                        think I'll get there, though," said he doggedly, as if he
                        expected to be derided for vanity.
                    "You will," said Susan.
                    "I'm twenty-nine. But I've been being got ready
                        for something. They don't chip away at a stone as they have at me
                        without intending to make some use of it."
                    "No, indeed," said the girl, hope and faith welling up in
                        her own heart.
                    "And what's more, I've stood the chipping. I
                        ain't become rubbish; I'm still a good stone.
                        That's promising, ain't it?"
                    "It's a sure sign," declared Susan. Sure for
                        herself, no less than for him.
                    The restaurant man took from under the counter several well-worn schoolbooks.
                        He held them up, looked at Susan and winked. "Good
                        business—eh?"
                    She laughed and nodded. He put the books back under the counter, finished the
                        cakes and served them. As he gave her more butter he said:
                    "It ain't the best butter—not by a long shot. But
                             it's good—as good as
                        you get on the average farm—or better. Did you ever eat the best
                        butter?"
                    "I don't know. I've had some that was very
                        good."
                    "Eighty cents a pound?"
                    "Mercy, no," exclaimed Susan.
                    "Awful price, isn't it? But worth the money—yes,
                        sir! Some time when you've got a little change to spare, go get
                        half a pound at one of the swell groceries or dairies. And the best milk,
                        too. Twelve cents a quart. Wait till I get money. I'll show
                        'em how to live. I was born in a tenement. Never had nothing. Rags
                        to wear, and food one notch above a garbage barrel."
                    "I know," said Susan.
                    "But even as a boy I wanted the high-class things. It's
                        wanting the best that makes a man push his way up."
                    Another customer came—a keeper of a butcher shop, on his way to
                        market. Susan finished the cakes, paid the forty cents and prepared to
                        depart. "I'm looking for a hotel," said she to
                        the restaurant man, "one where they'll take me in at this
                        time, but one that's safe—not a dive."
                    "Right across the square there's a Salvation Army
                        shelter—very good—clean. I don't know of any
                        other place for a lady."
                    "There's a hotel on the next corner," put in the
                        butcher, suspending the violent smacking and sipping which attended his
                        taking rolls and coffee. "It ain't neither the one thing
                        nor the other. It's clean and cheap, and they'll let you
                        behave if you want to."
                    "That's all I ask," said the girl. "Thank
                        you." And she departed, after an exchange of friendly glances with
                        the restaurant man. "I feel lots better," said she.
                    
                    "It was a good breakfast," replied he.
                    "That was only part. Good luck!"
                    "Same to you, lady. Call again. Try my chops."
                    At the corner the butcher had indicated Susan found the usual Raines Law
                        hotel, adjunct to a saloon and open to all comers, however
                        "transient." But she took the butcher's word for
                        it, engaged a dollar-and-a-half room from the half-asleep clerk, was shown
                        to it by a colored bellboy who did not bother to wake up. It was a nice
                        little room with barely space enough for a bed, a bureau, a stationary
                        washstand, a chair and a small radiator. As she undressed by the light of a
                        sad gray dawn, she examined her dress to see how far it needed repair and
                        how far it might be repaired. She had worn away from Forty-third Street her
                        cheapest dress because it happened to be of an inconspicuous blue. It was
                        one of those suits that look fairly well at a glance on the wax figure in
                        the department store window, that lose their bloom as quickly as a country
                        bride, and at the fourth or fifth wearing begin to make frank and sweeping
                        confession of the cheapness of every bit of the material and labor that went
                        into them. These suits are typical of all that poverty compels upon the
                        poor, all that they in their ignorance and inexperience of values accept
                        without complaint, fancying they are getting money's worth and
                        never dreaming they are more extravagant than the most prodigal of the rich.
                        However, as their poverty gives them no choice, their ignorance saves them
                        from futilities of angry discontent. Susan had bought this dress because she
                        had to have another dress and could not afford to spend more than twelve
                        dollars, and it had been marked down from twenty-five. She had worn it in
                        fair weather and had contrived to keep it looking pretty well. But this rain
                             had finished it quite. Thereafter, until
                        she could get another dress, she must expect to be classed as poor and
                        seedy—therefore, on the way toward deeper
                        poverty—therefore, an object of pity and of prey. If she went into
                        a shop, she would be treated insultingly by the shopgirls, despising her as
                        a poor creature like themselves. If a man approached her, he would calculate
                        upon getting her very cheap because a girl in such a costume could not have
                        been in the habit of receiving any great sum. And if she went with him, he
                        would treat her with far less consideration than if she had been about the
                        same business in smarter attire.
                    She spread the dress on bureau and chair, smoothing it, wiping the mud stains
                        from it. She washed out her stockings at the stationary stand, got them as
                        dry as her remarkably strong hands could wring them, hung them on a rung of
                        the chair near the hot little radiator. She cleaned her boots and overshoes
                        with an old newspaper she found in a drawer, and wet at the washstand. She
                        took her hat to pieces and made it over into something that looked almost
                        fresh enough to be new. Then, ready for bed, she got the office of the hotel
                        on the telephone and left a call for half-past nine
                        o'clock—three hours and a half away. When she was throwing
                        up the window, she glanced into the street.
                    The rain had once more ceased. Through the gray dimness the men and women,
                        boys and girls, on the way to the factories and shops for the day's
                        work, were streaming past in funereal procession. Some of the young ones
                        were lively. But the mass was sullen and dreary. Bodies wrecked or rapidly
                        wrecking by ignorance of hygiene, by the foul air and foul food of the
                        tenements, by the monotonous toil of factory and shop—mindless
                        toil—toil that took away mind and put in  its place a distaste for all improvement—toil of the
                        factories that distorted the body and enveloped the soul in sodden
                        stupidity—toil of the shops that meant breathing bad air all day
                        long, meant stooped shoulders and varicose veins in the legs and the arches
                        of the insteps broken down, meant dull eyes, bad skin, female complaints,
                        meant the breeding of desires for the luxury the shops display, the breeding
                        of envy and servility toward those able to buy these luxuries.
                    Susan lingered, fascinated by this exhibit of the price to the many of
                        civilization for the few. Work? Never! Not any more than she would.
                        "Work" in a dive! Work—either branch of it,
                        factory and shop or dive—meant the sale of all the body and all the
                        soul; her profession—at least as she practiced it—meant
                        that perhaps she could buy with part of body and part of soul the privilege
                        of keeping the rest of both for her own self. If she had stayed on at work
                        from the beginning in Cincinnati, where would she be now? Living in some
                        stinking tenement hole, with hope dead. And how would she be looking? As
                        dull of eye as the rest, as pasty and mottled of skin, as ready for any
                        chance disease. Work? Never! Never! "Not at anything
                        that'd degrade me more than this life. Yes—more."
                        And she lifted her head defiantly. To her hunger Life was thus far offering
                        only a plate of rotten apples; it was difficult to choose among
                        them—but there was choice.
                    She was awakened by the telephone bell; and it kept on ringing until she got
                        up and spoke to the office through the sender. Never had she so craved
                        sleep; and her mental and physical contentment of three hours and a half
                        before had been succeeded by headache, a general soreness, a horrible attack
                        of the blues. She  grew somewhat better,
                        however, as she washed first in hot water, then in cold at the stationary
                        stand which was quite as efficient if not so luxurious as a bathtub. She
                        dressed in a rush, but not so hurriedly that she failed to make the best
                        toilet the circumstances permitted. Her hair went up unusually well; the
                        dress did not look so badly as she had feared it would. "As
                        it's a nasty day," she reflected, "it
                        won't do me so much damage. My hat and my boots will make them give
                        me the benefit of the doubt and think I'm saving my good
                        clothes."
                    She passed through the office at five minutes to ten. When she reached
                        Lange's winter garden, its clock said ten minutes past ten, but she
                        knew it must be fast. Only one of the four musicians had
                        arrived—the man who played the drums, cymbals, triangle and
                        xylophone—a fat, discouraged old man who knew how easily he could
                        be replaced. Neither Lange nor his wife had come; her original friend, the
                        Austrian waiter, was wiping off tables and cleaning match stands. He
                        welcomed her with a smile of delight that showed how few teeth remained in
                        the front of his mouth and how deeply yellow they were. But Susan saw only
                        his eyes—and the kind heart that looked through them.
                    "Maybe you haven't had breakfast already?" he
                        suggested.
                    "I'm not hungry, thank you."
                    "Perhaps some coffee—yes?"
                    Susan thought the coffee would make her feel better. So he brought
                        it—Vienna fashion—an open china pot full of strong,
                        deliciously aromatic black coffee, a jug of milk with whipped white of egg
                        on top, a basket of small sweet rolls powdered with sugar and caraway seed.
                        She ate one of the rolls, drank the coffee. Before  she had finished, the waiter stood beaming before her and
                        said:
                    "A cigarette—yes?"
                    "Oh, no," replied Susan, a little sadly.
                    "But yes," urged he. "It isn't against
                        the rules. The boss's wife smokes. Many ladies who come here
                        do—real ladies. It is the custom in Europe. Why not?" And
                        he produced a box of cigarettes and put it on the table. Susan lit one of
                        them and once more with supreme physical content came a cheerfulness that
                        put color and sprightliness into the flowers of hope. And the sun had won
                        its battle with the storm; the storm was in retreat. Sunshine was streaming
                        in at the windows, into her heart. The waiter paused in his work now and
                        then to enjoy himself in contemplating the charming picture she made. She
                        was thinking of what the wagon restaurant man had said. Yes, Life had been
                        chipping away at her; but she had remained good stone, had not become
                        rubbish.
                    About half-past ten Lange came down from his flat which was overhead. He
                        inspected her by daylight and finding that his electric light impressions
                        were not delusion was highly pleased with her. He refused to allow her to
                        pay for the coffee. "Johann!" he called, and the leader of
                        the orchestra approached and made a respectful bow to his employer. He had a
                        solemn pompous air and the usual pompadour. He and Susan plunged into the
                        music question, found that the only song they both knew was Tosti's
                        "Good Bye."
                    "That'll do to try," said Lange.
                        "Begin!"
                    And after a little tuning and voice testing, Susan sang the "Good
                        Bye" with full orchestra accompaniment. It was not good; it was not
                        even pretty good; but it was not bad. "You'll do all
                        right," said Lange.  "You
                        can stay. Now, you and Johann fix up some songs and get ready for
                        tonight." And he turned away to buy supplies for restaurant and
                        bar.
                    Johann, deeply sentimental by nature, was much pleased with Susan's
                        contralto. "You do not know how to sing," said he.
                        "You sing in your throat and you've got all the faults of
                        parlor singers. But the voice is there—and much
                        expressiveness—much temperament. Also, you have
                        intelligence—and that will that will make a very little voice go a
                        great way."
                    Before proceeding any further with the rehearsal, he took Susan up to a shop
                        where sheet music was sold and they selected three simple songs:
                        "Gipsy Queen," "Star of My Life" and
                        "Love in Dreams." They were to try "Gipsy
                        Queen" that night, with "Good Bye" and, if the
                        applause should compel, "Suwanee River."
                    When they were back at the restaurant Susan seated herself in a quiet corner
                        and proceeded to learn the words of the song and to get some notion of the
                        tune.
                    She had lunch with Mr. and Mrs. Lange and Katy, whose hair was very golden
                        indeed and whose voice and manner proclaimed the Bowery and its vaudeville
                        stage. She began by being grand with Susan, but had far too good a heart and
                        far too sensible a nature to keep up long. It takes more vanity, more solemn
                        stupidity and more leisure than plain people have time for, to maintain the
                        force of fake dignity. Before lunch was over it was Katy and Lorna; and Katy
                        was distressed that her duties at the theater made it impossible for her to
                        stay and help Lorna with the song.
                    At the afternoon rehearsal Susan distinguished herself. To permit business in
                        the restaurant and the rehearsal at the same time, there was a curtain to
                        divide the big room into two unequal parts. When Susan  sang her song through for the first time complete, the men
                        smoking and drinking on the other side of the curtain burst into applause.
                        Johann shook hands with Susan, shook hands again, kissed her hand, patted
                        her shoulder. But in the evening things did not go so well.
                    Susan, badly frightened, got away from the orchestra, lagged when it speeded
                        to catch up with her. She made a pretty and engaging figure in the costume,
                        low in the neck and ending at the knees. Her face and shoulders, her arms
                        and legs, the lines of her slender, rounded body made a success. But they
                        barely saved her from being laughed at. When she finished, there was no
                        applause—so no necessity for an encore. She ran upstairs, and, with
                        nerves all a-quiver, hid herself in the little room she and Katy were to
                        share. Until she failed she did not realize how much she had staked upon
                        this venture. But now she knew; and it seemed to her that her only future
                        was the streets. Again her chance had come; again she had thrown it away. If
                        there were anything in her—anything but mere vain
                        hopes—that could not have occurred. In her plight anyone with a
                        spark of the divinity that achieves success would have scored. "I
                        belong in the streets," said she. Before dinner she had gone out
                        and had bought a ninety-five cent night-dress and some toilet articles.
                        These she now bundled together again. She changed to her street dress; she
                        stole down the stairs.
                    She was out at the side door, she was flying through the side street toward
                        the Bowery. "Hi!" shouted someone behind her.
                        "Where you going?" And overtaking her came her staunch
                        friend Albert, the waiter. Feeling that she must need sympathy and
                        encouragement, he had slipped away from his duties to go up to  her. He had reached the hall in time to see
                        what she was about and had darted bareheaded after her.
                    "Where you going?" he repeated, excitedly.
                    A crowd began to gather. "Oh, good-by," she cried.
                        "I'm getting out before I'm told to
                        go—that's all. I made a failure. Thank you,
                        Albert." She put out her hand; she was still moving and looking in
                        the direction of the Bowery.
                    "Now you mustn't be foolish," said he, holding on
                        tightly to her hand. "The boss says it's all right.
                        Tomorrow you do better."
                    "I'd never dare try again."
                    "Tomorrow makes everything all right. You mustn't act like
                        a baby. The first time Katy tried, they yelled her off the stage. Now she
                        gets eleven a week. Come back right away with me. The boss'd be mad
                        if you won't. You ain't acting right, Miss Lorna. I
                        didn't think you was such a fool."
                    He had her attention now. Unmindful of the little crowd they had gathered,
                        they stood there discussing until to save Albert from pneumonia she returned
                        with him. He saw her started up the stairs, then ventured to take his eye
                        off her long enough to put his head into the winter garden and send a waiter
                        for Lange. He stood guard until Lange came and was on his way to her.
                    The next evening, a Saturday, before a crowded house she sang well, as well
                        as she had ever sung in her life—sang well enough to give her
                        beauty of face and figure, her sweetness, her charm the opportunity to win a
                        success. She had to come back and sing "Suwanee River."
                        She had to come for a second encore; and, flushed with her victory over her
                        timidity, she sang Tosti's sad cry of everlasting farewell with all
                        the tenderness  there was in her. That song
                        exactly fitted her passionate, melancholy voice; its words harmonized with
                        the deep sadness that was her real self, that is the real self of every
                        sensitive soul this world has ever tried with its exquisite torments for
                        flesh and spirit. The tears that cannot be shed were in her voice, in her
                        face, as she stood there, with her violet-gray eyes straining into vacancy.
                        But the men and the women shed tears; and when she moved, breaking the spell
                        of silence, they not only applauded, they cheered.
                    The news quickly spread that at Lange's there was a girl singer
                        worth hearing and still more worth looking at. And Lange had his opportunity
                        to arrive.
                    But several things stood in his way, things a man of far more intelligence
                        would have found it hard to overcome.
                    Like nearly all saloon-keepers, he was serf to a brewery; and the particular
                        brewery whose beer his mortgage compelled him to push did not make a beer
                        that could be pushed. People complained that it had a disagreeably bitter
                        aftertaste. In the second place, Mrs. Lange was a born sitter. She had
                        married to rest—and she was resting. She was always piled upon a
                        chair. Thus, she was not an aid but a hindrance, an encourager of the help
                        in laziness and slovenliness. Again, the cooking was distinctly bad; the
                        only really good thing the house served was coffee, and that was good only
                        in the mornings. Finally, Lange was a saver by nature and not a spreader. He
                        could hold tightly to any money he closed his stubby fingers upon; he did
                        not know how to plant money and make it grow, but only how to hoard.
                    Thus it came to pass that, after the first spurt, the business fell back to
                        about where it had been before  Susan came.
                        Albert, the Austrian waiter, explained to Susan why it was that her
                        popularity did the house apparently so little good—explained with
                        truth where she suspected kind-hearted plotting, that she had arrested its
                        latterly swift-downward slide. She was glad to hear what he had to say, as
                        it was most pleasant to her vanity; but she could not get over the
                        depression of the central fact—she was not making the sort of
                        business to justify asking Lange for more than board and lodging; she was
                        not in the way of making the money that was each day more necessary, as her
                        little store dwindled.
                    The question of getting money to live on is usually dismissed in a princely
                        way by writers about human life. It is in reality, except with the few rich,
                        the ever-present question—as ever-present as the necessity of
                        breathing—and it is not, like breathing, a matter settled
                        automatically. It dominates thought; it determines action. To leave it out
                        of account ever, in writing a human history, is to misrepresent and distort
                        as utterly as would a portrait painter who neglected to give his subject
                        eyes, or a head, even. With the overwhelming mass of us, money is at all
                        times all our lives long the paramount question—for to be without
                        it is destruction worse than death, and we are almost all perilously near to
                        being without it. Thus, airily to pass judgment upon men and women as to
                        their doings in getting money for necessaries, for what the compulsion of
                        custom and habit has made necessaries to them—airily to judge them
                        for their doings in such dire straits is like sitting calmly on shore and
                        criticizing the conduct of passengers and sailors in a storm-beset sinking
                        ship. It is one of the favorite pastimes of the comfortable classes; it
                        makes an excellent impression  as to
                        one's virtue upon one's audience; it gives us a pleasing
                        sense of superior delicacy and humor. But it is none the less mean and
                        ridiculous. Instead of condemnation, the world needs to bestir itself to
                        remove the stupid and cruel creatures that make evil conduct necessary; for
                        can anyone, not a prig, say that the small part of the human race that does
                        well does so because it is naturally better than the large part that does
                        ill?
                    Spring was slow in opening. Susan's one dress was in a deplorable
                        state. The lining hung in rags. The never good material was stretched out of
                        shape, was frayed and worn gray in spots, was beyond being made up as
                        presentable by the most careful pressing and cleaning. She had been forced
                        to buy a hat, shoes, underclothes. She had only three dollars and a few
                        cents left, and she simply did not dare lay it all out in dress materials.
                        Yet, less than all would not be enough; all would not be enough.
                    Lange had from time to time more than hinted at the opportunities she was
                        having as a public singer in his hall. But Susan, for all her experience,
                        had remained one of those upon whom such opportunities must be thrust if
                        they are to be accepted.
                    So long as she had food and shelter, she could not make advances; she could
                        not even go so far as passive acquiescence. She knew she was again violating
                        the fundamental canon of success; whatever one's business, do it
                        thoroughly if at all. But she could not overcome her temperament which had
                        at this feeble and false opportunity at once resented itself. She knew
                        perfectly that therein was the whole cause of her failure to make the
                        success she ought to have made when she came up from the tenements, and
                        again when she fell  into the clutches of
                        Freddie Palmer. But it is one thing to know; it is another thing to do.
                        Susan ignored the attempts of the men; she pretended not to understand Lange
                        when they set him on to intercede with her for them. She saw that she was
                        once more drifting to disaster—and that she had not long to drift.
                        She was exasperated against herself; she was disgusted with herself. But she
                        drifted on.
                    Growing seedier looking every day, she waited, defying the plain teachings of
                        experience. She even thought seriously of going to work. But the situation
                        in that direction remained unchanged. She was seeing things, the reasons for
                        things, more clearly now, as experience developed her mind. She felt that to
                        get on in respectability she ought to have been either more or less
                        educated. If she had been used from birth to conditions but a step removed
                        from savagery, she might have been content with what offered, might even
                        have felt that she was rising. Or if she had been bred to a good trade, and
                        educated only to the point where her small earnings could have satisfied her
                        desires, then she might have got along in respectability. But she had been
                        bred a "lady"; a Chinese woman whose feet have been bound
                        from babyhood until her fifteenth or sixteenth year—how long it
                        would be, after her feet were freed, before she could learn to walk at
                        all!—and would she ever be able to learn to walk well?
                    What is luxury for one is squalor for another; what is elevation for one
                        degrades another. In respectability she could not earn what was barest
                        necessity for her—what she was now getting at
                        Lange's—decent shelter, passable food. Ejected from her
                        own class that shelters its women and brings them up in unfitness for the
                        unsheltered life, she was dropping  as all
                        such women must and do drop—was going down, down,
                        down—striking on this ledge and that, and rebounding to resume her
                        ever downward course.
                    She saw her own plight only too vividly. Those whose outward and inward lives
                        are wide apart get a strong sense of dual personality. It was thus with
                        Susan. There were times when she could not believe in the reality of her
                        external life.
                    She often glanced through the columns on columns, pages on pages of
                        "want ads" in the papers—not with the idea of
                        answering them, for she had served her apprenticeship at that, but simply to
                        force herself to realize vividly just how matters stood with her. Those
                        columns and pages of closely printed offerings of work! Dreary tasks, all of
                        them—tasks devoid of interest, of personal sense of usefulness,
                        tasks simply to keep degrading soul in degenerating body, tasks performed in
                        filthy factories, in foul-smelling workrooms and shops, in unhealthful
                        surroundings. And this, throughout civilization, was the "honest
                        work" so praised—by all who don't do it, but live
                        pleasantly by making others do it. Wasn't there something in the
                        ideas of Etta's father, old Tom Brashear? Couldn't
                        sensible, really loving people devise some way of making most tasks less
                        repulsive, of lessening the burdens of those tasks that couldn't be
                        anything but repulsive? Was this stupid system, so cruel, so crushing, and
                        producing at the top such absurd results as flashy, insolent autos and silly
                        palaces and overfed, overdressed women, and dogs in jeweled collars, and
                        babies of wealth brought up by low menials—was this system really
                        the best?
                    "If they'd stop canting about 'honest
                        work' they might begin to get somewhere."
                    In the effort to prevent her downward drop from  beginning again she searched all the occupations open to her. She could
                        not find one that would not have meant only the most visionary prospect of
                        some slight remote advancement, and the certain and speedy destruction of
                        what she now realized was her chief asset and hope—her personal
                        appearance. And she resolved that she would not even endanger it ever again.
                        The largest part of the little capital she took away from Forty-third Street
                        had gone to a dentist who put in several fillings of her back teeth. She had
                        learned to value every charm—hair, teeth, eyes, skin, figure,
                        hands. She watched over them all, because she felt that when her day finally
                        came—and come it would, she never allowed long to
                        doubt—she must be ready to enter fully into her own. Her day! The
                        day when fate should change the life her outward self would be compelled to
                        live, would bring it into harmony with the life of inward self—the
                        self she could control.
                    Katy had struck up a friendship at once profitable and sentimental with her
                        stage manager. She often stayed out all night. On one of these nights Susan,
                        alone in the tiny room and asleep, was roused by feeling hands upon her. She
                        started up half awake and screamed.
                    "Sh!" came in Lange's voice.
                        "It's me."
                    Susan had latterly observed sly attempts on his part to make advances without
                        his wife and daughter's suspecting; but she had thought her way of
                        quietly ignoring was effective. "You must go," she
                        whispered. "Mrs. Lange must have heard."
                    "I had to come," said he hoarsely, a mere voice in the
                        darkness. "I can't hold out no longer without you,
                        Lorna."
                    "Go—go," urged Susan.
                    
                    But it was too late. In the doorway, candle in hand, appeared Mrs. Lange.
                        Despite her efforts at "dressiness" she was in her best
                        hour homely and nearly shapeless. In night dress and released from corsets
                        she was hideous and monstrous. "I thought so!" she
                        shrieked. "I thought so!"
                    "I heard a burglar, mother," whined Lange, an abject and
                        guilty figure.
                    "Shut your mouth, you loafer!" shrieked Mrs. Lange. And she
                        turned to Susan. "You gutter hussy, get on your clothes and clear
                        out!"
                    "But—Mrs. Lange—" began Susan.
                    "Clear out!" she shouted, opening the outer hall.
                        "Dress mighty damn quick and clear out!"
                    "Mother, you'll wake the people upstairs," pleaded
                        Lange—and Susan had never before realized how afraid of his wife
                        the little man was. "For God's sake, listen to
                        sense."
                    "After I've thrown you—into the streets,"
                        cried his wife, beside herself with jealous fury. "Get dressed, I
                        tell you!" she shouted at Susan.
                    And the girl hurried into her clothes, making no further attempt to speak.
                        She knew that to plead and to explain would be useless; even if Mrs. Lange
                        believed, still she would drive from the house the temptation to her
                        husband. Lange, in a quaking, cowardly whine, begged his wife to be sensible
                        and believe his burglar story. But with each half-dozen words he uttered,
                        she interrupted to hurl obscene epithets at him or at Susan. The tenants of
                        the upstairs flats came down. She told her wrongs to a dozen half-clad men,
                        women and children; they took her side at once, and with the women leading
                        showered vile insults upon Susan. The uproar was rising, rising. Lange
                        cowered  in a corner, crying bitterly like a
                        whipped child. Susan, only partly dressed, caught up her hat and rushed into
                        the hall. Several women struck at her as she passed. She stumbled on the
                        stairs, almost fell headlong. With the most frightful words in tenement
                        house vocabulary pursuing her she fled into the street, and did not pause
                        until she was within a few yards of the Bowery. There she sat down on a
                        doorstep and, half-crazed by the horror of her sudden downfall, laced her
                        shoes and buttoned her blouse and put on her hat with fumbling, shaking
                        fingers. It had all happened so quickly that she would have thought she was
                        dreaming but for the cold night air and the dingy waste of the Bowery with
                        the streetwalkers and drunken bums strolling along under the elevated
                        tracks. She had trifled with the opportunity too long. It had flown in
                        disgust, dislodging her as it took flight. If she would be over nice and
                        critical, would hesitate to take the only upward path fate saw fit to offer,
                        then—let her seek the bottom! Susan peered down, and shuddered.
                    She went into the saloon at the corner, into the little back room. She poured
                        down drink after drink of the frightful poison sold as whiskey with the
                        permission of a government owned by every interest that can make big money
                        out of a race of free men and so can afford to pay big bribes. It is
                        characteristic of this poison of the saloon of the tenement quarter that it
                        produces in anyone who drinks it a species of quick insanity, of immediate
                        degeneration—a desire to commit crime, to do degraded acts. Within
                        an hour of Susan's being thrown into the streets, no one would have
                        recognized her. She had been drinking, had been treating the two faded but
                        young and decently dressed streetwalkers who sat at another table. The
                        three,  fired and maddened by the poison, were
                        amusing themselves and two young men as recklessly intoxicated as they.
                        Susan, in an attitude she had seen often enough but had never dreamed of
                        taking, was laughing wildly at a coarse song, was standing up, skirts caught
                        high and body swaying in drunken rhythm as she led the chorus.
                    When the barkeeper announced closing time, one of the young men said to
                        her:
                    "Which way?"
                    "To hell," laughed she. "I've been thrown
                        out everywhere else. Want to go along?"
                    "I'll never desert a perfect lady," replied
                        he.
                
                
                
                    X
                    
                        SHE was like one who has fallen bleeding and broken into a
                        cave; who after a time gathers himself together and crawls toward a faint
                        and far distant gleam of light; who suddenly sees the light no more and at
                        the same instant lurches forward and down into a deeper chasm.
                    Occasionally sheer exhaustion of nerves made it impossible for her to drink
                        herself again into apathy before the effects of the last doses of the poison
                        had worn off. In these intervals of partial awakening—she never
                        permitted them to lengthen out, as such sensation as she had was of one
                        falling—falling—through empty space—with whirling
                        brain and strange sounds in the ears and strange distorted sights or
                        hallucinations before the eyes—falling
                        down—down—whither?—to how great a
                        depth?—or was there no bottom, but simply presently a plunging on
                        down into the black of death's bottomless oblivion?
                    Drink—always drink. Yet in every other way she took care of her
                        health—a strange mingling of prudence and subtle hope with
                        recklessness and frank despair. All her refinement, baffled in the moral
                        ways, concentrated upon the physical. She would be neat and well dressed;
                        she would not let herself be seized of the diseases on the pariah in those
                        regions—the diseases through dirt and ignorance and
                        indifference.
                    In the regions she now frequented recklessness was the keynote. There was the
                        hilarity of the doomed; there was the cynical or stolid indifference to heat
                        or  cold, to rain or shine, to rags, to filth,
                        to jail, to ejection for nonpayment of rent, to insult of word or blow. The
                        fire engines—the ambulance—the patrol wagon—the
                        city dead wagon—these were all ever passing and repassing through
                        those swarming streets. It was the vastest, the most populous tenement area
                        of the city. Its inhabitants represented the common lot—for it is
                        the common lot of the overwhelming mass of mankind to live near to
                        nakedness, to shelterlessness, to starvation, without ever being quite naked
                        or quite roofless or quite starved. The masses are eager for the
                        necessities; the classes are eager for the comforts and luxuries. The masses
                        are ignorant; the classes are intelligent—or, at least, shrewd. The
                        unconscious and inevitable exploitation of the masses by the classes
                        automatically and of necessity stops just short of the catastrophe
                        point—for the masses must have enough to give them the strength to
                        work and reproduce. To go down through the social system as had Susan from
                        her original place well up among the classes is like descending from the
                        beautiful dining room of the palace where the meat is served in taste and
                        refinement upon costly dishes by well mannered servants to attractively
                        dressed people—descending along the various stages of the
                        preparation of the meat, at each stage less of refinement and more of
                        coarseness, until one at last arrives at the slaughter pen. The shambles,
                        stinking and reeking blood and filth! The shambles, with hideous groan or
                        shriek, or more hideous silent look of agony! The shambles of society where
                        the beauty and grace and charm of civilization are created out of noisome
                        sweat and savage toil, out of the health and strength of men and women and
                        children, out of their ground up bodies, out of their ground up souls. Susan
                        knew those  regions well. She had no theories
                        about them, no resentment against the fortunate classes, no notion that any
                        other or better system might be possible, any other or better life for the
                        masses. She simply accepted life as she found it, lived it as best she
                        could.
                    Throughout the masses of mankind life is sustained by
                        illusions—illusions of a better lot tomorrow, illusions of a heaven
                        beyond a grave, where the nightmare, life in the body, will end and the
                        reality, life in the spirit, will begin. She could not join the throngs
                        moving toward church and synagogue to indulge in their dream that the
                        present was a dream from which death would be a joyful awakening. She
                        alternately pitied and envied them. She had her own dream that this dream,
                        the present, would end in a joyful awakening to success and freedom and
                        light and beauty. She admitted to herself that the dream was probably an
                        illusion, like that of the pious throngs. But she was as unreasonably
                        tenacious of her dream as they were of theirs. She dreamed it because she
                        was a human being—and to be human means to hope, and to hope means
                        to dream of a brighter future here or hereafter, or both here and hereafter.
                        The earth is peopled with dreamers; she was but one of them. The last
                        thought of despair as the black earth closes is a hope, perhaps the most
                        colossal of hope's delusions, that there will be escape in the
                        grave.
                    There is the time when we hope and know it and believe in it. There is the
                        time when we hope and know it but have ceased to believe in it. There is the
                        time when we hope, believing that we have altogether ceased to hope. That
                        time had come for Susan. She seemed to think about the present. She moved
                        about like a sleepwalker.
                    
                    What women did she know—what men? She only dimly remembered from day
                        to day—from hour to hour. Blurred faces passed before her, blurred
                        voices sounded in her ears, blurred personalities touched hers. It was like
                        the jostling of a huge crowd in night streets. A vague sense of
                        buffetings—of rude contacts—of momentary sensations of
                        pain, of shame, of disgust, all blunted and soon forgotten.
                    In estimating suffering, physical or mental, to fail to take into account a
                        more important factor—the merciful paralysis or partial paralysis
                        of any center of sensibility—that is insistently assaulted.
                    She no longer had headaches—or nausea after drinking deeply. And
                        where formerly it had taken many stiff doses of liquor to get her into the
                        state of recklessness or of indifference, she was now able to put herself
                        into the mood in which life was endurable with two or three drinks, often
                        with only one. The most marked change was that never by any chance did she
                        become gay; the sky over her life was steadily gray—gray or black,
                        to gray again—never lighter.
                    How far she had fallen! But swift descent or gradual, she had adapted
                        herself—had, in fact, learned by much experience of disaster to
                        mitigate the calamities, to have something to keep a certain deep-lying self
                        of selfs intact—unaffected by what she had been forced to undergo.
                        It seemed to her that if she could get the chance—or could cure
                        herself of the blindness which was always preventing her from seeing and
                        seizing the chance that doubtless offered again and again—she could
                        shed the surface her mode of life had formed over her and would find
                        underneath a new real surface, stronger, sightly, better able to
                        bear—like the skin that forms beneath the healing wound.
                    
                    In these tenements, as in all tenements of all degrees, she and the others of
                        her class were fiercely resented by the heads of families where there was
                        any hope left to impel a striving upward. She had the best furnished room in
                        the tenement. She was the best dressed woman—a marked and instantly
                        recognizable figure because of her neat and finer clothes. Her profession
                        kept alive and active the instincts for care of the person that either did
                        not exist or were momentary and feeble in the respectable women. The
                        slovenliness, the scurrilous-ness of even the wives and daughters of the
                        well-to-do and the rich of that region would not have been tolerated in any
                        but the lowest strata of her profession, hardly even in those sought by men
                        of the laboring class. Also, the deep horror of disease, which her
                        intelligence never for an instant permitted to relax its hold, made her
                        particular and careful when in other circumstances drink might have reduced
                        her to squalor. She spent all her leisure time—for she no longer
                        read—in the care of her person.
                    She was watched with frightened, yet longing and curious, eyes by all the
                        girls who were at work. The mothers hated her; many of them spat upon the
                        ground after she had passed. It was a heart-breaking struggle, that of these
                        mothers to save their daughters, not from prostitution, not from living with
                        men outside marriage, not from moral danger, but from the practical danger,
                        the danger of bringing into the world children with no father to help feed
                        and clothe them. In the opinion of these people—an opinion often
                        frankly expressed, rarely concealed with any but the thinnest
                        hypocrisy—the life of prostitution was not so bad. Did the life of
                        virtue offer any attractive alternative? Whether a woman was
                        "bad" or "good,"  she must live in travail and die in squalor to be buried in or
                        near the Potter's Field. But if the girl still living at home were
                        not "good," that would mean a baby to be taken care of,
                        would mean the girl herself not a contributor to the family support but a
                        double burden. And if she went into prostitution, would her family get the
                        benefit? No.
                    The mothers made little effort to save their sons; they concentrated on the
                        daughters. It was pitiful to see how in their ignorance they were unaware of
                        the strongest forces working against them. The talk of all this motley
                        humanity—of "good" no less than
                        "bad" women, of steady workingmen, of political heelers,
                        thieves and bums and runners for dives—was frankly, often
                        hideously, obscene. The jammed together way of living made modesty
                        impossible, or scantest decency—made the pictures of it among the
                        aspiring few, usually for the benefit of religion or charitable visitors, a
                        pitiful, grotesque hypocrisy. Indeed, the prostitute class was the highest
                        in this respect. The streetwalkers, those who prospered, had better masters,
                        learned something about the pleasures and charms of privacy, also had more
                        leisure in which to think, in however crude a way, about the refinements of
                        life, and more money with which to practice those refinements. The boys from
                        the girls. The favorite children's games, often played in the open
                        street with the elders looking on and laughing, were sex games. The very
                        babies used foul language—that is, used the language they learned
                        both at home and in the street. It was primitive man; Susan was at the
                        foundation of the world.
                    To speak of the conditions there as a product of civilization is to show
                        ignorance of the history of our  race, is to
                        fancy that we are civilized today, when in fact we
                        are—historically—in a turbulent and painful period of
                        transition from a better yesterday toward a tomorrow in which life will be
                        worth living as it never has been before in all the ages of duration. In
                        this today of movement toward civilization which began with the discovery of
                        iron and will end when we shall have discovered how to use for the benefit
                        of all the main forces of nature—in this today of agitation
                        incident to journeying, we are in some respects better off, in other
                        respects worse off, than the race was ten or fifteen thousand years ago. We
                        have lost much of the freedom that was ours before the rise of governments
                        and ruling classes; we have gained much—not so much as the ignorant
                        and the unthinking and the uneducated imagine, but still much. In the end
                        we—which means the masses of us—will gain infinitely. But
                        gain or loss has not been in so-called morality. There is not a virtue that
                        has not existed from time ages before record. Not a vice which is shallowly
                        called "effete" or the "product of
                        overcivilization," but originated before man was man.
                    To speak of the conditions in which Susan Lenox now lived as savagery is to
                        misuse the word. Every transitional stage is accompanied by a
                        disintegration. Savagery was a settled state in which every man and every
                        woman had his or her fixed position, settled duties and rights. With the
                        downfall of savagery with the beginning of the journey toward that hope of
                        tomorrow, civilization, everything in the relations of men with men and men
                        with women, became unsettled. Such social systems as the world has known
                        since have all been makeshift and temporary—like our social systems
                        of today, like the moral and extinct codes rising and  sinking in power over a vast multitude of emigrants moving
                        from a distant abandoned home toward a distant promised land and forced to
                        live as best they can in the interval. In the historic day's
                        journey of perhaps fifteen thousand years our present time is but a brief
                        second. In that second there has come a breaking up of the makeshift
                        organization which long served the working multitudes fairly well. The
                        result is an anarchy in which the strong oppress the weak, in which the
                        masses are being crushed by the burdens imposed upon them by the classes.
                        And in that particular part of the human race en route into which fate had
                        flung Susan Lenox conditions not of savagery but of primitive chaos were
                        prevailing. A large part of the population lived off the unhappy workers by
                        prostitution, by thieving, by petty swindling, by politics, by the various
                        devices in coarse, crude and small imitation of the devices employed by the
                        ruling classes. And these petty parasites imitated the big parasites in
                        their ways of spending their dubiously got gains. To have a "good
                        time" was the ideal here as in idle Fifth Avenue; and the notions
                        of a "good time" in vogue in the two opposite quarters
                        differed in degree rather than in kind.
                    Nothing to think about but the appetites and their vices. Nothing to hope for
                        but the next carouse. Susan had brought down with her from above one desire
                        unknown to her associates and neighbors—the desire to forget. If
                        she could only forget! If the poison would not wear off at times!
                    She could not quite forget. And to be unable to forget is to
                        remember—and to remember is to long—and to long is to
                        hope.
                    Several times she heard of Freddie Palmer. Twice she chanced upon his name in
                        the newspaper—an incidental 
                        reference to him in connection with local politics. The other times were
                        when men talking together in the drinking places frequented by both sexes
                        spoke of him as a minor power in the organization. Each time she got a sense
                        of her remoteness, of her security. Once she passed in Grand Street a
                        detective she had often seen with him in Considine's at Broadway
                        and Forty-second. The "bull" looked sharply at her. Her
                        heart stood still. But he went on without recognizing her. The sharp glance
                        had been simply that official expression of see-all and know-all which is
                        mere formality, part of the official livery, otherwise meaningless. However,
                        it is not to that detective's discredit that he failed to recognize
                        her. She had adapted herself to her changed surroundings.
                    Because she was of a different and higher class, and because she picked and
                        chose her company, even when drink had beclouded her senses and instinct
                        alone remained on drowsy guard, she prospered despite her indifference. For
                        that region had its aristocracy of rich merchants, tenement-owners,
                        politicians whose sons, close imitators of the uptown aristocracies in
                        manners and dress, spent money freely in the amusements that attract nearly
                        all young men everywhere. Susan made almost as much as she could have made
                        in the more renowned quarters of the town. And presently she was able to
                        move into a tenement which, except for two workingmen's families of
                        a better class, was given over entirely to fast women. It was much better
                        kept, much cleaner, much better furnished than the tenements for workers
                        chiefly; they could not afford decencies, much less luxuries. All that sort
                        of thing was, for the neighborhood, concentrated in the saloons, the dance
                        halls, the fast houses and the fast flats.
                    
                    Her walks in Grand Street and the Bowery, repelling and capricious though she
                        was with her alternating moods of cold moroseness and sardonic and mocking
                        gayety, were bringing her in a good sum of money for that region. Sometimes
                        as much as twenty dollars a week, rarely less than twelve or fifteen. And
                        despite her drinking and her freehandedness with her fellow-professionals
                        less fortunate and with the street beggars and for tenement charities, she
                        had in her stockings a capital of thirty-one dollars.
                    She avoided the tough places, the hang-outs of the gangs. She rarely went
                        alone into the streets at night—and the afternoons were, luckily,
                        best for business as well as for safety. She made no friends and therefore
                        no enemies. Without meaning to do so and without realizing that she did so,
                        she held herself aloof without haughtiness through sense of loneliness, not
                        at all through sense of superiority. Had it not been for her scarlet lips, a
                        far more marked sign in that region than anywhere uptown, she would have
                        passed in the street for a more or less respectable woman—not
                        thoroughly respectable; she was too well dressed, too intelligently cared
                        for to seem the good working girl.
                    On one of the few nights when she lingered in the little back room of the
                        saloon a few doors away at the corner, as she entered the dark passageway of
                        the tenement, strong fingers closed upon her throat and she was borne to the
                        floor. She knew at once that she was in the clutch of one of those terrors
                        of tenement fast women, the lobbygows—men who live by lying in wait
                        in the darkness to seize and rob the lonely, friend-less fast woman. She
                        struggled—and she was anything but weak. But not a sound could
                        escape from her tight-pressed throat. Soon she became unconscious.
                    
                    One of the workingmen, returning drunk from the meeting of the union, in the
                        corner saloon, stumbled over her, gave her a kick in his anger. This roused
                        her; she uttered a faint cry. "Thought it was a man,"
                        mumbled he, dragging her to a sitting position. He struck a match.
                        "Oh—it's you! Don't make any noise. If
                        my old woman came out, she'd kill us both."
                    "Never mind me," said Susan. "I was only
                        stunned."
                    "Oh, I thought it was the booze. They say you hit it something
                        fierce."
                    "No—a lobbygow." And she felt for her stockings.
                        They were torn away from her garters. Her bosom also was bare, for the
                        lobbygow had searched there, also.
                    "How much did he get?"
                    "About thirty-five."
                    "The hell he did! Want me to call a cop?"
                    "No," replied Susan, who was on her feet again.
                        "What's the use?"
                    "Those damn cops!" cursed the workingman.
                        "They'd probably pinch you—or both of us. Ten to
                        one the lobbygows divide with them."
                    "I didn't mean that," said Susan. The police were
                        most friendly and most kind to her. She was understanding the ways of the
                        world better now, and appreciated that the police themselves were part of
                        the same vast system of tyranny and robbery that was compelling her. The
                        police made her pay because they dared not refuse to be collectors. They
                        bound whom the mysterious invisible power compelled them to bind; they
                        loosed whom that same power bade them loose. She had no quarrel with the
                        police, who protected  her from far worse
                        oppressions and oppressors than that to which they subjected her. And if
                        they tolerated lobbygows and divided with them, it was because the
                        overshadowing power ordained it so.
                    "Needn't be afraid I'll blow to the cop,"
                        said the drunken artisan. "You can damn the cops all you please to
                        me. They make New York worse than Russia."
                    "I guess they do the best they can—like everybody
                        else," said the girl wearily.
                    "I'll help you upstairs."
                    "No, thank you," said she. Not that she did not need help;
                        but she wished no disagreeable scene with the workingman's wife who
                        might open the door as they passed his family's flat.
                    She went upstairs, the man waiting below until she should be
                        safe—and out of the way. She staggered into her room, tottered to
                        the bed, fell upon it. A girl named Clara, who lived across the hall, was
                        sitting in a rocking-chair in a nightgown, reading a Bertha Clay novel and
                        smoking a cigarette. She glanced up, was arrested by the strange look in
                        Susan's eyes.
                    "Hello—been hitting the pipe, I see," said she.
                        "Down in Gussie's room?"
                    "No. A lobbygow," said Susan.
                    "Did he get much?"
                    "About thirty-five."
                    "The —!" cried Clara. "I'll bet
                        it was Gussie's fellow. I've suspected him. Him and her
                        stay in, hitting the pipe all the time. That costs money, and she
                        hasn't been out for I don't know how long. Let's
                        go down there and raise hell."
                    "What's the use?" said Susan.
                    "You ought to 'a' put it in the savings bank.
                        That's  what I do—when I
                        have anything. Then, when I'm robbed, they only get what
                        I've just made. Last time, they didn't get
                        nothing—but me." And she laughed. Her teeth were good in
                        front, but out on one side and beginning to be discolored on the other.
                        "How long had you been saving?"
                    "Nearly six months."
                    "Gee! Isn't that hell!"
                        Presently she laughed. "Six months' work and only
                        thirty-five to show for it. Guess you're about as poor at hiving it
                        up as I am. I give it to that loafer I live with. You give it away to
                        anybody that wants a stake. Well—what's the diff? It all
                        goes."
                    "Give me a cigarette," said Susan, sitting up and
                        inspecting the bruises on her bosom and legs. "And get that bottle
                        of whiskey from under the soiled clothes in the bottom of the
                        washstand."
                    "It is something to celebrate, isn't
                        it?" said Clara. "My fellow's gone to his club
                        tonight, so I didn't go out. I never do any more, unless
                        he's there to hang round and see that I ain't done up.
                        You'll have to get a fellow. You'll have to come to it, as
                        I'm always telling you. They're expensive, but
                        they're company—anybody you can count on for shining up,
                        even if it is for what they can get out of you, is better than not having
                        nobody nowhere. And they keep off bums and lobbygows and scare the bilkers
                        into coughing up."
                    "Not for me," replied Susan.
                    The greater the catastrophe, the longer the time before it is fully realized.
                        Susan's loss of the money that represented so much of savage if
                        momentary horror, and so much of unconscious hope—this calamity did
                        not overwhelm her for several days. Then she yielded for the first time to
                        the lure of opium. She had listened  longingly
                        to the descriptions of the delights as girls and men told; for practically
                        all of them smoked—or took cocaine. But to Clara's or
                        Gussie's invitations to join the happy band of dreamers, she had
                        always replied, "Not yet. I'm saving that." Now,
                        however, she felt that the time had come. Hope in this world she had none.
                        Before the black adventure, why not try the world of blissful unreality to
                        which it gave entrance? Why leave life until she had exhausted all it put
                        within her reach?
                    She went to Gussie's room at midnight and flung herself down in a
                        wrapper upon a couch opposite a sallow, delicate young man. His great dark
                        eyes were gazing unseeingly at her, were perhaps using her as an outline
                        sketch from which his imagination could picture a beauty of loveliness
                        beyond human. Gussie taught her how to prepare the little ball of opium, how
                        to put it on the pipe and draw in its fumes. Her system was so well prepared
                        for it by the poisons she had drunk that she had satisfactory results from
                        the outset. And she entered upon the happiest period of her life thus far.
                        All the hideousness of her profession disappeared under the gorgeous
                        draperies of the imagination. Opium's magic transformed the vile,
                        the obscene, into the lofty, the romantic, the exalted. The world she had
                        been accustomed to regard as real ceased to be even the blur the poisonous
                        liquors had made of it, became a vague, distant thing seen in a dream. Her
                        opium world became the vivid reality.
                    The life she had been leading had made her extremely thin, had hardened and
                        dulled her eyes, had given her that sad, shuddering expression of the face
                        upon which have beaten a thousand mercenary and upon which have beaten a
                        thousand mercenary and lustful kisses. The opium soon changed all this. Her
                             skin, always tending toward pallor,
                        became of the dead amber-white of old ivory. Her thinness took on an
                        ethereal transparency that gave charm even to her slight stoop. Her face
                        became dreamy, exalted, rapt; and her violet-gray eyes looked from it like
                        the vents of poetical fires burning without ceasing upon an altar to the god
                        of dreams. Never had she been so beautiful; never had she been so
                        happy—not with the coarser happiness of dancing eye and laughing
                        lip, but with the ecstasy of soul that is like the shimmers of a tranquil
                        sea quivering rhythmically under the caresses of moonlight.
                    In her descent she had now reached that long narrow shelf along which she
                        would walk so long as health and looks should last—unless some
                        accident should topple her off on the one side into suicide or on the other
                        side into the criminal prostitute class. And such accidents were likely to
                        happen. Still there was a fair chance of her keeping her balance until loss
                        of looks and loss of health—the end of the shelf—should
                        drop her abruptly to the very bottom. She could guess what was there. Every
                        day she saw about the streets, most wretched and most forlorn of its
                        wretched and forlorn things, the solitary old women, bent and twisted,
                        wrapped in rotting rags, picking papers and tobacco from the gutters and
                        burrowing in garbage barrels, seeking somehow to get the drink or the dope
                        that changed hell into heaven for them.
                    Despite liquor and opium and the degradations of the street-woman's
                        life she walked that narrow ledge with curious steadiness. She was
                        unconscious of the cause. Indeed, self-consciousness had never been one of
                        her traits. The cause is interesting.
                    In our egotism, in our shame of what we ignorantly  regard as the lowliness of our origin we are always seeking
                        alleged lofty spiritual explanations of our doings, and overlook the actual,
                        quite simple real reason. One of the strongest factors in Susan's
                        holding herself together in face of overwhelming odds, was the nearly
                        seventeen years of early training her Aunt Fanny Warham had given her in
                        orderly and systematic ways—a place for everything and everything
                        in its place; a time for everything and everything at its time, neatness,
                        scrupulous cleanliness, no neglecting of any of the small, yet large,
                        matters that conserve the body. Susan had not been so apt a pupil of Fanny
                        Warham's as was Ruth, because Susan had not Ruth's nature
                        of the old-maidish, cut-and-dried conventional. But during the whole
                        fundamentally formative period of her life Susan Lenox had been trained to
                        order and system, and they had become part of her being, beyond the power of
                        drink and opium and prostitution to disintegrate them until the general
                        break-up should come. In all her wanderings every man or woman or girl she
                        had met who was not rapidly breaking up, but was offering more or less
                        resistance to the assaults of bad habits, was one who like herself had
                        acquired in childhood strong good habits to oppose the bad habits and to
                        fight them with. An enemy must be met with his own weapons or stronger. The
                        strongest weapons that can be given a human animal for combating the
                        destructive forces of the struggle for existence are not good sentiments or
                        good principles or even pious or moral practices—for, bad habits
                        can make short work of all these—but are good habits in the
                        practical, material matters of life. They operate automatically every day;
                        they apply to all the multitude of small, semi-unconscious actions of the
                        daily routine. They  preserve the morale. And not morality but morals is the warp of
                        character—the part which, once destroyed or even frayed, cannot be
                        restored.
                    Susan, unconsciously and tenaciously practicing her early training in order
                        and system whenever she could and wherever she could, had an enormous
                        advantage over the mass of the girls, both respectable and fast. And while
                        their evidence was always toward "going to pieces" her
                        tendency was always to repair and to put off the break-up.
                    One June evening she was looking through the better class of dance halls and
                        drinking resorts for Clara, to get her to go up to Gussie's for a
                        smoke. She opened a door she had never happened to enter before—a
                        dingy door with the glass frosted. Just inside there was a fetid little bar;
                        view of the rest of the room was cut off by a screen from behind which came
                        the sound of a tuneless old piano. She knew Clara would not be in such a
                        den, but out of curiosity she glanced round the screen. She was seeing a
                        low-ceilinged room, the walls almost dripping with the dirt of many and many
                        a hard year. In a corner was the piano, battered, about to fall to pieces,
                        its ancient and horrid voice cracked by the liquor which had been poured
                        into it by facetious drunkards. At the keyboard sat an old hunchback,
                        broken-jawed, dressed in slimy rags, his one eye instantly fixed upon her
                        with a lecherous expression that made her shiver as it compelled her to
                        imagine the embrace he was evidently imagining. His filthy fingers were
                        pounding out a waltz. About the floor were tottering in the measure of the
                        waltz a score of dreadful old women. They were in calico. They had each a
                        little biscuit knot of white hair firmly upon the crown  of the head. From their bleached, seamed old faces gleamed the
                        longings or the torments of all the passions they could no longer either
                        inspire or satisfy. They were one time prostitutes, one time young, perhaps
                        pretty women, now descending to death—still prostitutes in heart
                        and mind but compelled to live as scrub-dives after the drunkards had passed
                        on. They were now enjoying the reward of their toil, the pleasures of which
                        they dreamed and to which they looked forward as they dragged their stiff
                        old knees along the floors in the wake of the brush and the cloth. They were
                        drinking biting poisons from tin cups—for those hands quivering
                        with palsy could not be trusted with glass—dancing with drunken,
                        disease-swollen or twisted legs—venting from ghastly toothless
                        mouths strange cries of merriment that sounded like shrieks of damned souls
                        at the licking of quenchless flames.
                    Susan stood rooted to the threshold of that frightful scene—that
                        vision of the future toward which she was hurrying. A few years—a
                        very few years—and, unless she should have passed through the
                        Morgue, here she would be, abandoning her body to abominations beyond belief
                        at the hands of degenerate oriental sailors to get a few pennies for the
                        privileges of this dance hall. And she would laugh, as did these, would
                        enjoy as did these, would revel in the filth her senses had been trained to
                        find sweet. "No! No!" she protested.
                        "I'd kill myself first!" And then she cowered
                        again, as the thought came that she probably would not, any more than these
                        had killed themselves. The descent would be gradual—no matter how
                        swift, still gradual. Only the insane put an end to life. Yes—she
                        would come here some day.
                    
                    She leaned against the wall, her throat contracting in a fit of nausea. She
                        grew cold all over; her teeth chattered. She tried in vain to tear her gaze
                        from the spectacle; some invisible power seemed to be holding her head in a
                        vise, thrusting her struggling eyelids violently open.
                    There were several men, dead drunk, asleep in old wooden chairs against the
                        wall. One of these men was so near her that she could have touched him. His
                        clothing was such an assortment of rags slimy and greasy as one sometimes
                        sees upon the top of a filled garbage barrel to add its horrors of odor of
                        long unwashed humanity to the stenches from vegetable decay. His wreck of a
                        hard hat had fallen from his head as it dropped forward in drunken sleep.
                        Something in the shape of the head made her concentrate upon this man. She
                        gave a sharp cry, stretched out her hand, touched the man's
                        shoulder.
                    "Rod!" she cried. "Rod!"
                    The head slowly lifted, and the bleary, blowsy wreck of Roderick
                        Spenser's handsome face was turned stupidly toward her. Into his
                        gray eyes slowly came a gleam of recognition. Then she saw the red of shame
                        burst into his hollow cheeks, and the head quickly drooped.
                    She shook him. "Rod! It's you!"
                    
                    "Get the hell out," he mumbled. "I want to
                        sleep."
                    "You know me," she said. "I see the color in your
                        face. Oh, Rod—you needn't be ashamed before me."
                    
                    She felt him quiver under her fingers pressing upon his shoulder. But he
                        pretended to snore.
                    "Rod," she pleaded, "I want you to come along with
                        me. I can't do you any harm now."
                    The hunchback had stopped playing. The old women were crowding round Spenser
                        and her, were  peering at them, with eyes
                        eager and ears a-cock for romance—for nowhere on this earth do the
                        stars shine so sweetly as down between the precipices of shame to the black
                        floor of the slum's abyss. Spenser, stooped and shaking, rose
                        abruptly, thrust Susan aside with a sweep of the arm that made her reel,
                        bolted into the street. She recovered her balance and amid hoarse croakings
                        of "That's right, honey! Don't give him
                        up!" followed the shambling, swaying figure. He was too utterly
                        drunk to go far; soon down he sank, a heap of rags and filth, against a
                        stoop.
                    She bent over him, saw he was beyond rousing, straightened and looked about
                        her. Two honest looking young Jews stopped. "Won't you
                        help me get him home?" she said to them.
                    "Sure!" replied they in chorus. And, with no outward sign
                        of the disgust they must have felt at the contact, they lifted up the sot,
                        in such fantastic contrast to Susan's clean and even stylish
                        appearance, and bore him along, trying to make him seem less the help-less
                        whiskey-soaked dead weight. They dragged him up the two flights of stairs
                        and, as she pushed back the door, deposited him on the floor. She assured
                        them they could do nothing more, thanked them, and they departed. Clara
                        appeared in her doorway.
                    "God Almighty, Lorna!" she cried. "What have you got there? How'd it get
                        in?"
                    "You've been advising me to take a fellow," said
                        Susan. "Well—here he is."
                    Clara looked at her as if she thought her crazed by drink or dope.
                        "I'll call the janitor and have him thrown
                        out."
                    "No, he's my lover," said Susan. "Will
                        you help me clean him up?"
                    
                    Clara, looking at Spenser's face now, saw those signs which not the
                        hardest of the world's hard uses can cut or tear away.
                        "Oh!" she said, in a tone of sympathy. "He is down, isn't he? But he'll pull round
                        all right."
                    She went into her room to take off her street clothes and to get herself into
                        garments as suitable as she possessed for one of those noisome tasks that
                        are done a dozen times a day by the bath nurses in the receiving department
                        of a charity hospital. When she returned, Susan too was in her chemise and
                        ready to begin the search for the man, if man there was left deep buried in
                        that muck. While Susan took off the stinking and rotten rags, and flung them
                        into the hall, Clara went to the bathroom they and Mollie shared, and filled
                        the tub with water as hot as her hand could bear. With her foot Susan pushed
                        the rags along the hall floor and into the garbage closet. Then she and
                        Clara lifted the emaciated, dirt-streaked, filth-smeared body, carried it to
                        the bathroom, let it down into the water. There were at hand plenty of those
                        strong, specially prepared soaps and other disinfectants constantly used by
                        the women of their kind who still cling to cleanliness and health. With
                        these they attacked him, not as if he were a human being, but as if he were
                        some inanimate object that must be scoured before it could be used.
                    Again and again they let out the water, black, full of dead and dying vermin;
                        again and again they rinsed him, attacked him afresh. Their task grew less
                        and less repulsive as the man gradually appeared, a young man with a soft
                        skin, a well-formed body, unusually good hands and feet, a distinguished
                        face despite its savage wounds from dissipation, hardly the less handsome
                             for the now fair and crisp beard which
                        gave it a look of more years than Spenser had lived.
                    If Spenser recovered consciousness—and it seems hardly possible that
                        he did not—he was careful to conceal the fact. He remained limp,
                        inert, apparently in a stupor. They gave him one final scrubbing, one final
                        rinsing, one final thorough inspection. "Now, he's all
                        right," declared Clara. "What shall we do with
                        him?"
                    "Put him to bed," said Susan.
                    They had already dried him off in the empty tub. They now rubbed him down
                        with a rough towel, lifted him, Susan taking the shoulders, Clara the legs,
                        and put him in Susan's bed. Clara ran to her room, brought one of
                        the two nightshirts she kept for her fellow. When they had him in this and
                        with a sheet over him, they cleaned and straightened the bathroom, then lit
                        cigarettes and sat down to rest and to admire the work of their hands.
                    "Who is he?" asked Clara.
                    "A man I used to know," said Susan. Like all the girls in
                        that life with a real story to tell, she never told about her past self.
                        Never tell? They never even remember if drink and drugs will do their
                        duty.
                    "I don't blame you for loving him," said Clara.
                        "Somehow, the lower a man sinks the more a woman loves him.
                        It's the other way with men. But then men don't know what
                        love is. And a woman don't really know till she's been
                        through the mill."
                    "I don't love him," said Susan.
                    "Same thing," replied the practical Clara, with a wave of
                        the bare arm at the end of which smoked the cigarette.
                        "What're you going to do with him?"
                    "I don't know," confessed Susan.
                    
                    She was not a little uneasy at the thought of his awakening. Would he despise
                        her more than ever now—fly from her back to his filth? Would he let
                        her try to help him? And she looked at the face which had been, in that
                        other life so long, long ago, dearer to her than any face her eyes had ever
                        rested upon; a sob started deep down within her, found its slow and painful
                        way upward, shaking her whole body and coming from between her clenched
                        teeth in a groan. She forgot all she had suffered from Rod—forgot
                        the truth about him which she had slowly puzzled out after she left him and
                        as experience enabled her to understand actions she had not understood at
                        the time. She forgot it all. That past—that far, dear, dead past!
                        Again she was a simple, innocent girl upon the high rock, eating that
                        wonderful dinner. Again the evening light faded, stars and moon came out,
                        and she felt the first sweet stirring of love for him. She could hear his
                        voice, the light, clear, entrancing melody of the Duke's
                        song—
                    
                        La Donna è mobile
                        Qua penna al vento—
                    
                    She burst into tears—tears that drenched her soul as the rain
                        drenches the blasted desert and makes the things that could live in beauty
                        stir deep in its bosom. And Clara, sobbing in sympathy, kissed her and stole
                        away, softly closing the door. "If a man die, shall he live
                        again?" asked the old Arabian philosopher. If a woman die, shall
                        she live again? . . . Shall not that which dies in weakness live again in
                        strength? . . . Looking at him, as he lay there sleeping so quietly, her
                        being surged with the heaving of high longings and hopes. If they could only live again! Here they were, together, at the
                        lowest depth, at the rock bottom of  life. If
                        they could build on that rock, build upon the very foundation of the world,
                        then would they indeed build in strength! Then, nothing could
                        destroy—nothing! . . . If they could live again! If they could
                        build!
                    She had something to live for—something to fight for. Into her eyes
                        came a new light; into her soul came peace and strength. Something to live
                        for—someone to redeem.
                
                
                
                    XI
                    
                        SHE fell asleep, her head resting upon her hand, her elbow
                        on the arm of the chair. She awoke with a shiver; she opened her eyes to
                        find him gazing at her. The eyes of both shifted instantly.
                        "Wouldn't you like some whiskey?" she asked.
                    "Thanks," replied he, and his unchanged voice reminded her
                        vividly of his old self, obscured by the beard and by the dissipated
                        look.
                    She took the bottle from its concealment in the locked washstand drawer,
                        poured him out a large drink. When she came back where he could see the
                        whiskey in the glass, his eyes glistened and he raised himself first on his
                        elbow, then to a sitting position. His shaking hand reached out eagerly and
                        his expectant lips quivered. He gulped the whiskey down.
                    "Thank you," he said, gazing longingly at the bottle as he
                        held the empty glass toward her.
                    "More?"
                    "I would like a little more," said he
                        gratefully.
                    Again she poured him a large drink, and again he gulped it down.
                        "That's strong stuff," said he. "But
                        then they sell strong stuff in this part of town. The other kind tastes weak
                        to me now."
                    He dropped back against the pillows. She poured herself a drink. Halfway to
                        her lips the glass halted. "I've got to stop
                        that," thought she, "if I'm going to do anything
                        for him or for myself." And she poured the whiskey back and put the
                        bottle away. The whole incident took less than five seconds. It did not
                        occur  that she was essaying and achieving the
                        heroic, that she had in that instant revealed her right to her dream of a
                        career high above the common lot.
                    "Don't you drink?" said he.
                    "I've decided to cut it out," replied she
                        carelessly. "There's nothing in it."
                    "I couldn't live without it—and
                        wouldn't."
                    "It is a comfort when one's on the way
                        down," said she. "But I'm going to try the other
                        direction—for a change."
                    She held a box of cigarettes toward him. He took one, then she; she held the
                        lighted match for him, lit her own cigarette, let the flame of the match
                        burn on, she absently watching it.
                    "Look out! You'll burn yourself!" cried he.
                    She started, threw the match into the slop jar. "How do you
                        feel?" inquired she.
                    "Like the devil," he answered. "But then I
                        haven't known what it was to feel any other way for several
                        months—except when I couldn't feel at all." A
                        long silence, both smoking, he thinking, she furtively watching him.
                        "You haven't changed so much," he finally said.
                        "At least, not on the outside."
                    "More on the outside than on the inside," said she.
                        "The inside doesn't change much. There I'm almost
                        as I was that day on the big rock. And I guess you are,
                        too—aren't you?"
                    "The devil I am! I've grown hard and bitter."
                    "That's all outside," declared she.
                        "That's the shell—like the scab that stays over
                        the sore spot till it heals."
                    "Sore spot? I'm nothing but sore spots. I've been
                        treated like a dog."
                    And he proceeded to talk about the only subject that  interested him—himself. He spoke in a defensive way,
                        as if replying to something she had said or thought. "I've
                        not got down in the world without damn good excuse. I wrote several plays,
                        and they wore tried out of town. But we never could get into New York. I
                        think Brent was jealous of me, and his influence kept me from a hearing. I
                        know it sounds conceited, but I'm sure I'm
                        right."
                    "Brent?" said she, in a queer voice. "Oh, I think
                        you must be mistaken. He doesn't look like a man who could do petty
                        mean things. No, I'm sure he's not petty."
                    "Do you know him?" cried Spenser, in an irritated tone.
                    "No. But—someone pointed him out to me once—a long
                        time ago—one night in the Martin. And then—you'll
                        remember—there used to be a great deal of talk about him when we
                        lived in Forty-third Street. You admired him tremendously."
                    "Well, he's responsible," said Spenser, sullenly.
                        "The men on top are always trampling down those who are trying to
                        climb up. He had it in for me. One of my friends who thought he was a decent
                        chap gave him my best play to read. He returned it with some phrases about
                        its showing talent—one of those phrases that don't mean a
                        damn thing. And a few weeks ago—" Spenser raised himself
                        excitedly—"the thieving hound produced a play that was a
                        clean steal from mine. I'd be laughed at if I protested or sued.
                        But I know, curse him!"
                    He fell back shaking so violently that his cigarette dropped to the sheet.
                        Susan picked it up, handed it to him. He eyed her with angry suspicion.
                        "You don't believe me, do you?" he demanded.
                    
                    "I don't know anything about it," replied she.
                        "Anyhow, what does it matter? The man I met on that show
                        boat—the Mr. Burlingham I've often talked
                        about—he used to say that the dog that stopped to lick his
                        scratches never caught up with the prey."
                    He flung himself angrily in the bed. "You never did have any
                        heart—any sympathy. But who has? Even Drumley went back on
                        me—let 'em put a roast of my last play in the Herald—a telegraphed roast from New Haven—said
                        it was a dead failure. And who wrote it? Why, some newspaper correspondent
                        in the pay of the Syndicate—and that means Brent.
                        And of course it was a dead failure. So—I gave up—and here
                        I am. . . . This your room?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Where's this nightshirt come from?"
                    "It belongs to the friend of the girl across the hall." He
                        laughed sneeringly. "The hell it does!" mocked he.
                        "I understand perfectly. I want my clothes."
                    "No one is coming," said Susan. "There's
                        no one to come."
                    He was looking round the comfortable little room that was the talk of the
                        whole tenement and was stirring wives and fast women alike to "do a
                        little fixing up." Said he:
                    "A nice little nest you've made for him. You always were
                        good at that."
                    "I've made it for myself," said she. "I
                        never bring men here."
                    "I want my clothes," cried he. "I haven't
                        sunk that low, you—!"
                    The word he used did not greatly disturb Susan. The shell she had formed over
                        herself could ward off brutal contacts of languages no less than of the
                        other  kinds. It did, however, shock her a
                        little to hear Rod Spenser use a word so crude.
                    "Give me my clothes," he ordered, waving his fists in a
                        fierce, feeble gesture.
                    "They were torn all to pieces. I threw them away. I'll get
                        you some more in the morning."
                    He dropped back again, a scowl upon his face. "I've got no
                        money—not a damn cent. I did half a day's work on the
                        docks and made enough to quiet me last night." He raised himself.
                        "I can work again. Give me my clothes!"
                    "They're gone," said Susan. "They were
                        completely used up."
                    This brought back apparently anything but dim memory of what his plight had
                        been. "How'd I happen to get so clean?"
                    "Clara and I washed you off a little. You had fallen
                        down."
                    He lay silent a few minutes, then said in a hesitating, ashamed tone,
                        "My troubles have made me a boor. I beg your pardon.
                        You've been tremendously kind to me."
                    "Oh, it wasn't much. Don't you feel
                        sleepy?"
                    "Not a bit." He dragged himself from the bed. "But
                            you do. I must go."
                    She laughed in the friendliest way. "You can't. You
                        haven't any clothes."
                    He passed his hand over his face and coughed violently, she holding his head
                        and supporting his emaciated shoulders. After several minutes of coughing
                        and gagging, gasping and groaning and spitting, he was relieved by the spasm
                        and lay down again. When he got his breath, he said—with rest
                        between words—"I'd ask you to send for the
                        ambulance, but if the doctors  catch me,
                        they'll lock me away. I've got consumption. Oh,
                        I'll soon be out of it."
                    Susan sat silent. She did not dare look at him lest he should see the pity
                        and horror in her eyes.
                    "They'll find a cure for it," pursued he.
                        "But not till the day after I'm gone. That is the way my
                        luck runs. Still, I don't see why I should care to
                        stay—and I don't! Have you any more of that
                        whiskey?"
                    Susan brought out the bottle again, gave him the last of the
                        whiskey—a large drink. He sat up, sipping it to make it last. He
                        noted the long row of books on the shelf fastened along the wall beside the
                        bed, the books and magazines on the table. Said he:
                    "As fond of reading as ever, I see?"
                    "Fonder," said she. "It takes me out of
                        myself."
                    "I suppose you read the sort of stuff you really like,
                        now—not the things you used to read to make old Drumley think you
                        were cultured and intellectual."
                    "No—the same sort," replied she, unruffled by his
                        contemptuous, unjust fling. "Trash bores me."
                    "Come to think of it, I guess you did have pretty good taste in
                        books."
                    But he was interested in himself, like all invalids; and, like them, he
                        fancied his own intense interest could not but be shared by everyone. He
                        talked on and on of himself, after the manner of failures—told of
                        his wrongs, of how friends had betrayed him, of the jealousies and enmities
                        his talents had provoked. Susan was used to these hard-luck stories, was
                        used to analyzing them. With the aid of what she had worked out as to his
                        character after she left him, she had no difficulty in seeing that he was
                        deceiving himself, was excusing himself. But after all she had lived
                        through, after all she had discovered about human frailty, especially in  herself, she was not able to criticize, much
                        less condemn, anybody. Her doubts merely set her to wondering whether he
                        might not also be self-deceived as to his disease.
                    "Why do you think you've got consumption?" asked
                        she.
                    "I was examined at the free dispensary up in Second Avenue the other
                        day. I've suspected what was the matter for several months. They
                        told me I was right."
                    "But the doctors are always making mistakes. I'd not give
                        up if I were you."
                    "Do you suppose I would if I had anything to live for?"
                    "I was thinking about that a while ago—while you were
                        asleep."
                    "Oh, I'm all in. That's a cinch."
                    "So am I,' said she. "And as we've
                        nothing to lose and no hope, why, trying to do something won't make
                        us any worse off. . . . We've both struck the bottom. We
                        can't go any lower." She leaned forward and, with her
                        earnest eyes fixed upon him, said, "Rod—why not
                        try—together?"
                    He closed his eyes.
                    "I'm afraid I can't be of much use to
                        you," she went on. "But you can help me. And helping me
                        will make you help yourself. I can't get up alone. I've
                        tried. No doubt it's my fault. I guess I'm one of those
                        women that aren't hard enough or self-confident enough to do
                        what's necessary unless I've got some man to make me do
                        it. Perhaps I'd get the—the strength or whatever it is,
                        when I was much older. But by that time—in my case—I guess
                        it'd be too late. Won't you help me, Rod?"
                    
                    He turned his head away, without opening his eyes.
                    "You've helped me many times—beginning with the
                        first day we met."
                    "Don't," he said. "I went back on you. I
                        did sprain my ankle, but I could have come."
                    "That wasn't anything," replied she. "You
                        had already done a thousand times more than you needed to do."
                    His hand wandered along the cover in her direction. She touched it. Their
                        hands clasped.
                    "I lied about where I got the money yesterday. I didn't
                        work. I begged. Three of us—from the saloon they call the
                        Owl's Chute—two Yale men—one of them had been a
                        judge—and I. We've been begging for a week. We were going
                        out on the road in a few days—to rob. Then—I saw
                        you—in that old women's dance hall—the Venusberg,
                        they call it."
                    "You've come down here for me, Rod. You'll take me
                        back? You'll save me from the Venusberg?"
                    "I couldn't save anybody. Susie, at bottom I'm N.
                        G. I always was—and I knew it. Weak—vain. But you! If you
                        hadn't been a woman—and such a sweet, considerate
                        one—you'd have never got down here."
                    "Such a fool," corrected Susan. "But, once I get
                        up, I'll not be so again. I'll fight under the rules,
                        instead of acting in the silly way they teach us as children."
                    "Don't say those hard things, Susie!"
                    "Aren't they true?"
                    "Yes, but I can't bear to hear them from a woman. . . . I
                        told you that you hadn't changed. But after I'd looked at
                        you a while I saw that you have. You've  got a terrible look in your eyes—wonderful and
                        terrible. You had something of that look as a child—the first time
                        I saw you."
                    "The day after my marriage," said the girl, turning her
                        face away.
                    "It's was there then," he went on. "But
                        now—it's—it's heartbreaking,
                        Susie—when your face is in repose."
                    "I've gone through a fire that has burned up every bit of
                        me that can burn," said she. "I've been wondering
                        if what's left isn't strong enough to do something with. I
                        believe so—if you'll help me."
                    "Help you? I—help anybody? Don't mock me,
                        Susie."
                    "I don't know about anybody else," said she
                        sweetly and gently, "but I do know about me."
                    "No use—too late. I've lost my nerve." He
                        began to sob. "It's because I'm
                        unstrung," explained he. "Don't think
                        I'm a poor contemptible fool of a whiner. . . . Yes, I am a whiner! Susie, I ought to have been the woman and you the
                        man. Weak—weak—weak!"
                    She turned the gas low, bent over him, kissed his brow, caressed him.
                        "Let's do the best we can," she murmured.
                    He put his arm round her. "I wonder if there is
                        any hope," he said. "No—there couldn't
                        be."
                    "Let's not hope," pleaded she.
                        "Let's just do the best we can."
                    "What—for instance?"
                    "You know the theater people. You might write a little
                        play—a sketch—and you and I could act it in one of the
                        ten-cent houses."
                    "That's not a bad idea!" exclaimed he. "A
                        little  comedy—about fifteen or
                        twenty minutes." And he cast about for a plot, found the beginnings
                        of one—the ancient but ever acceptable commonplace of a jealous
                        quarrel between two lovers—"I'll lay the scene in
                        Fifth Avenue—there's nothing low life likes so much as
                        high life." He sketched, she suggested. They planned until broad
                        day, then fell asleep, she half sitting up, his head pillowed upon her
                        lap.
                    She was awakened by a sense of a parching and suffocating heat. She started
                        up with the idea of fire in her drowsy mind. But a glance at him revealed
                        the real cause. His face was fiery red, and from his lips came rambling
                        sentences, muttered, whispered, that indicated the delirium of a high fever.
                        She had first seen it when she and the night porter broke into
                        Burlingham's room in the Walnut Street House, in Cincinnati. She
                        had seen it many a time since; for, while she herself had never been ill,
                        she had been surrounded by illness all the time, and the commonest form of
                        it was one of these fevers, outraged nature's frenzied rise against
                        the ever denser swarms of enemies from without which the slums sent to
                        attack her. Susan ran across the hall and roused Clara, who would watch
                        while she went for a doctor. "You'd better get Einstein in
                        Grand Street," Clara advised.
                    "Why not Sacci?" asked Susan.
                    "Our doctor doesn't know anything but the one
                        thing—and he doesn't like to take other kinds of cases.
                        No, get Einstein. . . . You know, he's like all of them—he
                        won't come unless you pay in advance."
                    "How much?" asked Susan.
                    "Three dollars. I'll lend you if—"
                    "No—I've got it." She had eleven dollars
                        and sixty cents in the world.
                    
                    Einstein pronounced it a case of typhoid. "You must get him to the
                        hospital at once."
                    Susan and Clara looked at each other in terror. To them, as to the masses
                        everywhere, the hospital meant almost certain death; for they
                        assumed—and they had heard again and again accusations which
                        warranted it—that the public hospital doctors and nurses treated
                        their patients with neglect always, with downright inhumanity often. Not a
                        day passed without their hearing some story of hospital outrage upon
                        poverty, without their seeing someone—usually some
                        child—who was paying a heavy penalty for having been in the charity
                        wards.
                    Einstein understood their expression. "Nonsense!" said he
                        gruffly. "You girls look too sensible to believe those silly
                        lies."
                    Susan looked at him steadily. His eyes shifted. "Of course, the pay
                        service is better," said he in a strikingly
                        different tone.
                    "How much would it be at a pay hospital?" asked Susan.
                    "Twenty-five a week including my services," said Doctor
                        Einstein. "But you can't afford that."
                    "Will he get the best treatment for that?"
                    "The very best. As good as if he were Rockefeller or the big chap
                        uptown."
                    "In advance, I suppose?"
                    "Would we ever get our money out of people if we didn't get
                        it in advance? We've got to live just the same as any other
                        class."
                    "I understand," said the girl. "I don't
                        blame you. I don't blame anybody for anything." She said
                        to Clara, "Can you lend me twenty?"
                    "Sure. Come in and get it." When she and Susan  were in the hall beyond Einstein's
                        hearing, she went on: "I've got the twenty and
                        you're welcome to it. But—Lorna—hadn't
                        you better—"
                    "In the same sort of a case, what'd you
                        do?" interrupted Susan.
                    Clara laughed. "Oh—of course." And she gave Susan
                        a roll of much soiled bills—a five, the rest ones and twos.
                    "I can get the ambulance to take him free," said Einstein.
                        "That'll save you five for a carriage."
                    She accepted this offer. And when the ambulance went, with Spenser burning
                        and raving in the tightly wrapped blankets, Susan followed in a street car
                        to see with her own eyes that he was properly installed. It was arranged
                        that she could visit him at any hour and stay as long as she liked.
                    She returned to the tenement, to find the sentiment of the entire
                        neighborhood changed toward her. Not loss of money, not loss of work, not
                        dispossession nor fire nor death is the supreme calamity among the poor, but
                        sickness. It is their most frequent visitor—sick-ness in all its
                        many frightful forms—rheumatism and consumption, cancer and typhoid
                        and the rest of the monsters. Yet never do the poor grow accustomed or
                        hardened. And at the sight of the ambulance the neighborhood had been
                        instantly stirred. When the reason for its coming got about, Susan became
                        the object of universal sympathy and respect. She was not sending her friend
                        to be neglected and killed at a charity hospital; she was paying twenty-five
                        a week that he might have a chance for life—twenty-five dollars a
                        week! The neighbors felt that her high purpose justified any means she might
                        be compelled to employ in getting the money. Women who had scowled and  spat as she walked by, spoke friendlily to
                        her and wiped their eyes with their filthy skirts, and prayed in church and
                        synagogue that she might prosper until her man was well and the old debt
                        paid. Clara went from group to group, relating the whole story, and the
                        tears flowed at each recital. Money they had none to give; but what they had
                        they gave with that generosity which suddenly transfigures rags and filth
                        and makes foul and distorted bodies lift in the full dignity of membership
                        in the human family. Everywhere in those streets were seen the ravages of
                        disease—rheumatism and rickets and goiter, wen and tumors and
                        cancer, children with only one arm or one leg, twisted spines, sunken
                        chests, distorted hips, scrofulous eyes and necks, all the sad markings of
                        poverty's supreme misery, the ferocious penalties of ignorance,
                        stupidity and want. But Susan's burden of sorrow was not on this
                        account overlooked.
                    Rafferty, who kept the saloon at the corner and was chief lieutenant to
                        O'Frayne, the District Leader, sent for her and handed her a
                        twenty. "That may help some," said he.
                    Susan hesitated—gave it back. "Thank you," said
                        she, "and perhaps later I'll have to get it from you. But
                        I don't want to get into debt. I already owe twenty."
                    "This ain't debt," explained Rafferty.
                        "Take it and forget it."
                    "I couldn't do that," said the girl. "But
                        maybe you'll lend it to me, if I need it in a week or
                        so?"
                    "Sure," said the puzzled saloon man—liquor store
                        man, he preferred to be called, or politician. "Any amount you
                        want."
                    As she went away he looked after her, saying to his  barkeeper: "What do you think of that, Terry? I
                        offered her a twenty and she sidestepped."
                    Terry's brother had got drunk a few days before, had killed a woman
                        and was on his way to the chair. Terry scowled at the boss and said:
                    "She's got a right to, ain't she? Don't
                        she earn her money honest, without harmin' anybody but herself?
                        There ain't many that can say that—not any that runs
                        factories and stores and holds their noses up as if they smelt their own
                        sins, damn 'em!"
                    "She's a nice girl," said Rafferty, sauntering
                        away. He was a broad, tolerant and good-humored man; he made allowances for
                        an employee whose brother was in for murder.
                    Susan had little time to spend at the hospital. She must now earn fifty
                        dollars a week—nearly double the amount she had been averaging. She
                        must pay the twenty-five dollars for Spenser, the ten dollars for her
                        lodgings. Then there was the seven dollars which must be handed to the
                        police captain's "wardman" in the darkness of
                        some entry every Thursday night. She had been paying the patrolman three
                        dollars a week to keep him in a good humor, and two dollars to the
                        janitor's wife; she might risk cutting out these items for the
                        time, as both janitor's wife and policeman were sympathetic. But on
                        the closest figuring, fifty a week would barely meet her absolute
                        necessities—would give her but seven a week for food and other
                        expenses and nothing toward repaying Clara.
                    Fifty dollars a week! She might have a better chance to make it could she go
                        back to the Broadway-Fifth Avenue district. But however vague other
                        impressions from the life about her might have been, there had been branded
                        into her a deep and terrible fear of  the
                        police—an omnipotence as cruel as destiny itself—indeed,
                        the visible form of that sinister god at present. Once in the pariah class,
                        once with a "police record," and a man or woman would have
                        to scale the steeps of respectability up to a far loftier height than Susan
                        ever dreamed of again reaching, before that malign and relentless power
                        would abandon its tyranny. She did not dare risk adventuring a part of town
                        where she had no "pull" and where, even should she by
                        chance escape arrest, Freddie Palmer would hear of her; would certainly
                        revenge himself by having her arrested and made an example of. In the Grand
                        Street district she must stay, and she must "stop the
                        nonsense" and "play the game"—must be
                        businesslike.
                    She went to see the "wardman," O'Ryan, who under
                        the guise of being a plain clothes man or detective, collected and turned in
                        to the captain, who took his "bit" and passed up the rest,
                        all the money levied upon saloons, dives, procuresses, dealers in unlawful
                        goods of any kind from opium and cocaine to girls for "hock
                        shops."
                    O'Ryan was a huge brute of a man, his great hard face bearing the
                        scars of battles against pistol, knife, bludgeon and fist. He was a sour and
                        savage brute, hated and feared by everyone for his tyrannies over the
                        helpless poor and the helpless outcast class. He had primitive masculine
                        notions as to feminine virtue, intact despite the latter day general
                        disposition to concede toleration and even a certain respectability to
                        prostitutes. But by some chance which she and the other girls did not
                        understand he treated Susan with the utmost consideration, made the gangs
                        appreciate that if they annoyed her or tried to drag her into the net of
                        tribute in which they had enmeshed most of 
                        the girls worth while, he would regard it as a personal defiance to
                        himself.
                    Susan waited in the back room of the saloon nearest
                        O'Ryan's lodgings and sent a boy to ask him to come. The
                        boy came back with the astonishing message that she was to come to
                        O'Ryan's flat. Susan was so doubtful that she paused to
                        ask the janitress about it.
                    "It's all right," said the janitress.
                        "Since his wife died three years ago him and his baby lives alone.
                        There's his old mother but she's gone out. He's
                        always at home when he ain't on duty. He takes care of the baby
                        himself, though it howls all the time something awful."
                    Susan ascended, found the big policeman in his shirt sleeves, trying to
                        soothe the most hideous monstrosity she had ever seen—a misshapen,
                        hairy animal looking like a monkey, like a rat, like half a dozen repulsive
                        animals, and not at all like a human being. The thing was clawing and
                        growling and grinding its teeth. At sight of Susan it fixed malevolent eyes
                        on her and began to snap its teeth at her.
                    "Don't mind him," said O'Ryan.
                        "He's only acting up queer."
                    Susan sat not daring to look at the thing lest she should show her aversion,
                        and not knowing how to state her business when the thing was so clamorous,
                        so fiendishly uproarious. After a time O'Ryan succeeded in quieting
                        it. He seemed to think some explanation was necessary. He began abruptly,
                        his gaze tenderly on the awful creature, his child, lying quiet now in his
                        arms:
                    "My wife—she died some time ago—died when the baby
                        here was born."
                    "You spend a good deal of time with it," said Susan.
                    "All I can spare from my job. I'm afraid to trust  him to anybody, he being kind of different.
                        Then, too, I like to take care of him. You see,
                        it's all I've got to remember her by.
                        I'm kind o' tryin' to do what she'd want did." His lips quivered. He looked at
                        his monstrous child. "Yes, I like
                        settin' here, thinkin'—and takin' care
                        of him."
                    This brute of a slave driver, this cruel tyrant over the poor and the
                        helpless—yet, thus tender and gentle—thus capable of the
                        enormous sacrifice of a great, pure love!
                    
                        "You've got a way of lookin'
                        out of the eyes that's like her," he went on–and
                        Susan had the secret of his strange forbearance toward her. "I
                        suppose you've come about being let off on the
                        assessment?"
                    Already he knew the whole story of Rod and the hospital.
                        "Yes—that's why I'm bothering
                        you," said she.
                    "You needn't pay but five-fifty. I can only let you off a
                        dollar and a half—my bit and the captain's. We pass the
                        rest on up—and we don't dare let you off."
                    "Oh, I can make the money," Susan said hastily.
                        "Thank you, Mr. O'Ryan, but I don't want to get
                        anyone into trouble."
                    "We've got the right to knock off one dollar and a
                        half," said O'Ryan. "But if we let you off the
                        other, the word would get up to—to wherever the graft
                        goes—and they'd send down along the line, to have merry
                        hell raised with us. The whole thing's done systematic, and they
                        won't take no excuses, won't allow no breaks in the system
                        nowhere. You can see for yourself—it'd go to smash if they
                        did."
                    "Somebody must get a lot of money," said Susan.
                    "Oh, it's dribbled out—and as you go higher up, I
                        don't suppose them that gets it knows where it comes  from. The whole world's nothing but
                        graft, anyhow. Sorry I can't let you off."
                    The thing in his lap had recovered strength for a fresh fit of malevolence.
                        It was tearing at its hairy, hideous face with its claws and was howling and
                        shrieking, the big father gently trying to soothe it—for her sake. Susan got away quickly. She halted in the
                        deserted hall and gave way to a spasm of dry sobbing—an overflow of
                        all the emotions that had been accumulating within her. In this world of
                        noxious and repulsive weeds, what sudden startling upshooting of what
                        beautiful flowers! Flowers where you would expect to find the most noisome
                        weeds of all, and vilest weeds where you would expect to find flowers. What
                        a world!
                    However—the fifty a week must be got—and she must be
                        businesslike.
                    Most of the girls who took to the streets came direct from the tenements of
                        New York, of the foreign cities or of the factory towns of New England. And
                        the world over, tenement house life is an excellent school for the life of
                        the streets. It prevents modesty from developing; it familiarizes the eye,
                        the ear, the nerves, to all that is brutal; it takes away from a girl every
                        feeling that might act as a restraining influence except fear—fear
                        of maternity, of disease, of prison. Thus, practically all the other girls
                        had the advantage over Susan. Soon after they definitely abandoned
                        respectability and appeared in the streets frankly members of the
                        profession, they became bold and rapacious. They had an instinctive feeling
                        that their business was as reputable as any other, more reputable than many
                        held in high repute, that it would be most reputable if it paid better and
                        were less uncertain. They respected 
                        themselves for all things, talk to the contrary in the search for the
                        sympathy and pity most human beings crave. They despised the men as utterly
                        as the men despised them. They bargained as shamelessly as the men. Even
                        those who did not steal still felt that stealing was justifiable; for, in
                        the streets the sex impulse shows stripped of all disguise, shows as a
                        brutal male appetite, and the female feels that her yielding to it entitles
                        her to all she can compel and cozen and crib. Susan had been unfitted for
                        her profession—as for all active, unsheltered life—by her
                        early training. The point of view given us in our childhood remains our
                        point of view as to all the essentials of life to the end. Reason,
                        experience, the influence of contact with many phases of the world, may
                        change us seemingly, but the under-instinct remains unchanged. Thus, Susan
                        had never lost, and never would lose her original repugnance; not even drink
                        had ever given her the courage to approach men or to bargain with them. Her
                        shame was a false shame, like most of the shame in the world—a lack
                        of courage, not a lack of desire—and, however we may pretend, there
                        can be no virtue in abstinence merely through cowardice. Still, if there be
                        merit in shrinking, even when the cruelest necessities were goading, that
                        merit was hers in full measure. As a matter of reason and sense, she
                        admitted that the girls who respected themselves and practiced their
                        profession like merchants of other kinds were right, were doing what she
                        ought to do. Anyhow, it was absurd to practice a profession half-heartedly.
                        To play your game, whatever it might be, for all there was in
                        it—that was the obvious first principle of success.
                        Yet—she remained laggard and squeamish.
                    What she had been unable to do for herself, to save  herself from squalor, from hunger, from cold, she was now able
                        to do for the sake of another—to help the man who had enabled her
                        to escape from that marriage, more hideous than anything she had endured
                        since, or ever could be called upon to endure—to save him from
                        certain neglect and probable death in the "charity"
                        hospital. Not by merely tolerating the not too impossible men who joined her
                        without sign from her, and not by merely accepting what they gave, could
                        fifty dollars a week be made. She must dress herself in franker avowal of
                        her profession, must look as expensive as her limited stock of clothing,
                        supplemented by her own taste, would permit. She must flirt, must bargain,
                        must ask for presents, must make herself agreeable, must resort to the crude
                        female arts—which, however, are subtle enough to convince the
                        self-enchanted male even in face of the discouraging fact of the mercenary
                        arrangement. She must crush down her repugnance, must be active, not simply
                        passive—must get the extra dollars by stimulating male appetites,
                        instead of simply permitting them to satisfy themselves. She must seem
                        rather the eager mistress than the reluctant and impatient wife.
                    And she did abruptly change her manner. There was in her, as her life had
                        shown, a power of endurance, an ability to sacrifice herself in order to do
                        the thing that seemed necessary, and to do it without shuffling or whining.
                        Whatever else her career had done for her, it undoubtedly had strengthened
                        this part of her nature. And now the result of her training showed. With her
                        superior intelligence for the first time free to make the best of her
                        opportunities, she abruptly became equal to the most consummate of her
                        sisters in that long line of her sister-panders to male appetites which
                        extends  from the bought wife or mistress or
                        fiancée of the rich grandee down all the social ranks to the wife or street
                        girl cozening for a tipsy day-laborer's earnings on a Saturday
                        night and the work girl teasing her "steady company"
                        toward matrimony on the park bench or in the dark entry of the tenement.
                    She was able to pay Clara-back in less than ten days. In Spenser's
                        second week at the hospital she had him moved to better quarters and better
                        attendance at thirty dollars a week.
                    Although she had never got rid of her most un-professional habit of choosing
                        and rejecting, there had been times when need forced her into straits where
                        her lot seemed to her almost as low as that of the slave-like wives of the
                        tenements, made her almost think she would be nearly as well off were she
                        the wife, companion, butt, servant and general vent to some one dull and
                        distasteful provider of a poor living. But now she no longer felt either
                        degraded or heart sick and heart weary. And when he passed the worst crisis
                        her spirits began to return.
                    And when Roderick should be well, and the sketch written—and an
                        engagement got—Ah, then! Life indeed—life, at last! Was it
                        this hope that gave her the strength to fight down and conquer the craving
                        for opium? Or was it the necessity of keeping her wits and of saving every
                        cent? Or was it because the opium habit, like the drink habit, like every
                        other habit, is a matter of a temperament far more than it is a matter of an
                        appetite—and that she had the appetite but not the temperament? No
                        doubt this had its part in the quick and complete victory. At any rate,
                        fight and conquer she did. The strongest interest always wins. She had an
                        interest stronger than love of opium—an  interest that substituted itself for opium and for drink and
                        supplanted them. Life indeed—life, at last!
                    In his third week Rod began to round toward health. Einstein observed from
                        the nurse's charts that Susan's visits were having an
                        unfavorably exciting effect. He showed her the readings of temperature and
                        pulse, and forbade her to stay longer than five minutes at each of her two
                        daily visits. Also, she must not bring up any topic beyond the sickroom
                        itself. One day Spenser greeted her with, "I'll feel
                        better, now that I've got this off my mind." He held out
                        to her a letter. "Take that to George Fitzalan. He's an
                        old friend of mine—one I've done a lot for and never asked
                        any favors of. He may be able to give you something fairly good, right
                        away."
                    Susan glanced penetratingly at him, saw he had been brooding over the source
                        of the money that was being spent upon him. "Very well,"
                        said she, "I'll go as soon as I can."
                    "Go this afternoon," said he with an invalid's
                        fret-fulness. "And when you come this evening you can tell me how
                        you got on."
                    "Very well. This afternoon. But you know, Rod, there's not
                        a ghost of a chance."
                    "I tell you Fitzalan's my friend. He's got some
                        gratitude. He'll do something."
                    "I don't want you to get into a mood where you'll
                        be awfully depressed if I should fail."
                    "But you'll not fail."
                    It was evident that Spenser, untaught by experience and flattered into
                        exaggerating his importance by the solicitude and deference of doctors and
                        nurses to a paying invalid, had restored to favor his ancient
                        enemy—optimism, the certain destroyer of any man who does  not shake it off. She went away, depressed
                        and worried. When she should come back with the only possible news, what
                        would be the effect upon him—and he still in a critical stage? As
                        the afternoon must be give to business, she decided to go straight uptown,
                        hoping to catch Fitzalan before he went out to lunch. And twenty minutes
                        after making this decision she was sitting in the anteroom of a suite of
                        theatrical offices in the Empire Theater building. The girl in attendance
                        had, as usual, all the airs little people assume when they are in close, if
                        menial, relations with a person who, being important to them, therefore
                        fills their whole small horizon. She deigned to take in Susan's
                        name and the letter. Susan seated herself at the long table and with the
                        seeming of calmness that always veiled her in her hours of greatest
                        agitation, turned over the pages of the theatrical journals and magazines
                        spread about in quantity.
                    After perhaps ten silent and uninterrupted minutes a man hurried in from the
                        outside hall, strode toward the frosted glass door marked
                        "Private." With his hand reaching for the knob he halted,
                        made an impatient gesture, plumped himself down at the long
                        table—at its distant opposite end. With a sweep of the arm he
                        cleared a space wherein he proceeded to spread papers from his pocket and to
                        scribble upon them furiously. When Susan happened to glance at him, his head
                        was bent so low and his straw hat was tilted so far forward that she could
                        not see his face. She observed that he was dressed attractively in an
                        extremely light summer suit of homespun; his hands were large and strong and
                        ruddy—the hands of an artist, in good health. Her glance returned
                        to the magazine. After a few minutes she looked up. She  was startled to find that the man was giving her a curious,
                        searching inspection—and that he was Brent, the
                        playwright—the same fascinating face, keen, cynical,
                        amused—the same seeing eyes, that, in the Café Martin long ago, had
                        made her feel as if she were being read to her most secret thought. She
                        dropped her glance.
                    His voice made her start. "It's been a long time since
                        I've seen you," he was saying.
                    She looked up, not believing it possible he was addressing her. But his gaze
                        was upon her. Thus, she had not been mistaken in thinking she had seen
                        recognition in his eyes. "Yes," she said, with a faint
                        smile.
                    "A longer time for you than for me," said he.
                    "A good deal has happened to me," she admitted.
                    "Are you on the stage?"
                    "No. Not yet."
                    The girl entered by way of the private door. "Miss
                        Lenox—this way, please." She saw Brent, became instantly
                        all smiles and bows. "Oh—Mr. Fitzalan doesn't
                        know you're here, Mr. Brent," she cried. Then, to Susan,
                        "Wait a minute."
                    She was about to reënter the private office when Brent stopped her with,
                        "Let Miss Lenox go in first. I don't wish to see Mr.
                        Fitzalan yet." And he stood up, took off his hat, bowed gravely to
                        Susan, said, "I'm glad to have seen you
                        again."
                    Susan, with some color forced into her old-ivory skin by nervousness and
                        amazement, went into the presence of Fitzalan. As the now obsequious girl
                        closed the door behind her, she found herself facing a youngish man with a
                        remnant of hair that was little more than fuzz on the top of his head. His
                        features were sharp, aggressive, rather hard. He might have sat  for the typical successful American young man
                        of forty—so much younger in New York than is forty elsewhere in the
                        United States—and so much older. He looked at Susan with a pleasant
                        sympathetic smile.
                    "So," said he, "you're taking care of
                        poor Spenser, are you? Tell him I'll try to run down to see him. I
                        wish I could do something for him—something worth while, I mean.
                        But—his request—
                    "Really, I've nothing of the kind. I couldn't
                        possibly place you—at least, not at present—perhaps, later
                        on—"
                    "I understand," interrupted Susan. "He's
                        very ill. It would help him greatly if you would write him a few lines,
                        saying you'll give me a place at the first vacancy, but that it may
                        not be soon. I'll not trouble you again. I want the letter simply
                        to carry him over the crisis."
                    Fitzalan hesitated, rubbed his fuzzy crown with his jeweled hand.
                        "Tell him that," he said, finally. "I'm
                        rather careful about writing letters. . . . Yes, say to him what you
                        suggested, as if it was from me."
                    "The letter will make all the difference between his believing and
                        not believing," urged Susan. "He has great admiration and
                        liking for you—thinks you would do anything for him."
                    Fitzalan frowned; she saw that her insistence had roused—or, rather,
                        had strengthened—suspicion. "Really—you must
                        excuse me. What I've heard about him the past year has
                        not—
                    "But, no matter, I can't do it. You'll let me know
                        how he's getting on? Good day." And he gave her that
                        polite yet positive nod of dismissal which is a necessary part of the
                        equipment of men of affairs, constantly beset as they are and ever engaged
                        in the  battle to save their chief asset,
                        time, from being wasted.
                    Susan looked at him—a straight glance from gray eyes, a slight smile
                        hovering about her scarlet lips. He reddened, fussed with the papers before
                        him on the desk from which he had not risen. She opened the door, closed it
                        behind her. Brent was seated with his back full to her and was busy with his
                        scribbling. She passed him, went on to the outer door. She was waiting for
                        his voice; she knew it would come.
                    "Miss Lenox!"
                    As she turned he was advancing. His figure, tall and slim and straight, had
                        the ease of movement which proclaims the man who has been everywhere and so
                        is at home anywhere. He held out a card. "I wish to see you on
                        business. You can come at three this afternoon?"
                    "Yes," said Susan.
                    "Thanks," said he, bowing and returning to the table. She
                        went on into the hall, the card between her fingers. At the elevator, she
                        stood staring at the name—Robert Brent—as if it were an
                        inscription in a forgotten language. She was so absorbed, so dazed that she
                        did not ring the bell. The car happened to stop at that floor; she entered
                        as if it were dark. And, in the street, she wandered many blocks down
                        Broad-way before she realized where she was.
                    She left the elevated and walked eastward through Grand Street. She was
                        filled with a new and profound dissatisfaction. She felt like one awakening
                        from a hypnotic trance. The surroundings, inanimate and animate, that had
                        become endurable through custom abruptly resumed their original aspect of
                        squalor and ugliness of repulsion and tragedy. A stranger—the
                        ordinary, unobservant, feebly imaginative person, going  along those streets would have seen nothing but tawdriness and
                        poverty. Susan, experienced, imaginative, saw all—saw what another would have seen only after it was
                        pointed out, and even then but dimly. And that day her vision was no longer
                        staled and deadened by familiarity, but with vision fresh and with nerves
                        acute. The men—the women—and, saddest, most tragic of all,
                        the children! When she entered her room her reawakened sensitiveness, the
                        keener for its long repose, for the enormous unconscious absorption of
                        impressions of the life about her—this morbid sensitiveness of the
                        soul a-clash with its environment reached its climax. As she threw open the
                        door, she shrank back before the odor—the powerful, sensual, sweet
                        odor of chypre so effective in covering the bad smells that came up from
                        other flats and from the noisome back yards. The room itself was neat and
                        clean and plain, with not a few evidences of her personal taste—in
                        the blending of colors, in the selection of framed photographs on the walls.
                        The one she especially liked was the largest—a nude woman lying at
                        full length, her head supported by her arm, her face gazing straight out of
                        the picture, upon it a baffling expression—of sadness, of cynicism,
                        of amusement perhaps, of experience, yet of innocence. It hung upon the wall
                        opposite the door. When she saw this picture in the department store, she
                        felt at once a sympathy between that woman and herself, felt she was for the
                        first time seeing another soul like her own, one that would have understood
                        her strange sense of innocence in the midst of her own defiled and depraved
                        self—a core of unsullied nature. Everyone else in the world would
                        have mocked at this notion of a something within—a true self to
                        which all that seemed to be her own self was as external as her clothing:
                        this  woman of the photograph would
                        understand. So, there she hung—Susan's one prized
                        possession.
                    The question of dressing for this interview with Brent was most important.
                        Susan gave it much thought before she began to dress, changed her mind again
                        and again in the course of dressing. Through all her vicissitudes she had
                        never lost her interest in the art of dress or her skill at it—and
                        despite the unfavorable surroundings she had steadily improved; any woman
                        anywhere would instantly have recognized her as one of those few favored and
                        envied women who know how to get together a toilet. She finally chose the
                        simplest of the half dozen summer dresses she had made for
                        herself—a plain white lawn, with a short skirt. It gave her an
                        appearance of extreme youth, despite her height and the slight stoop in her
                        shoulders—a mere drooping that harmonized touchingly with the young
                        yet weary expression of her face. To go with the dress she had a large hat
                        of black rough straw with a very little white trimming on it. With this
                        large black hat bewitchingly set upon her gracefully-done dark wavy hair,
                        her sad, dreamy eyes, her pallid skin, her sweet-bitter mouth with its
                        rouged lips seemed to her to show at their best. She felt that nothing was
                        quite so effective for her skin as a white dress. In other
                        colors—though she did not realize—the woman of bought
                        kisses showed more distinctly—never brazenly as in most of the
                        girls, but still unmistakably. In white she took on a glamour of
                        melancholy—and the human countenance is capable of no expression so
                        universally appealing as the look of melancholy that suggests the sadness
                        underlying all life, the pain that pays for pleasure, the pain that pays and
                        gets no pleasure, the sorrow of the passing of all things, the  faint foreshadow of the doom awaiting us all.
                        She washed the rouge from her lips, studied the effect in the glass.
                        "No," she said aloud, "without it I feel like a
                        hypocrite—and I don't look half so well." And she
                        put the rouge on again—the scarlet dash drawn startlingly across
                        her strange, pallid face.
                
                
                
                    XII
                    
                        AT three that afternoon she stood in the vestibule of
                        Brent's small house in Park Avenue overlooking the oblong of green
                        between East Thirty-seventh Street and East Thirty-eighth. A most reputable
                        looking Englishman in evening dress opened the door; from her reading and
                        her theater-going she knew that this was a butler. He bowed her in. The
                        entire lower floor was given to an entrance hall, done in plain black
                        walnut, almost lofty of ceiling, and with a grand stairway leading to the
                        upper part of the house. There was a huge fireplace to the right; a mirror
                        filled the entire back wall; a broad low seat ran all round the room. In one
                        corner, an enormous urn of dark pottery; in another corner, a suit of armor,
                        the helmet, the breastplate and the gauntlets set with gold of ancient
                        lackluster.
                    The butler left her there and ascended the polished but dead-finished
                        stairway noiselessly. Susan had never before been in so grand a room. The
                        best private house she had ever seen was Wright's in Sutherland;
                        and while everybody else in Sutherland thought it magnificent, she had felt
                        that there was something wrong, what she had not known. The grandiose New
                        York hotels and restaurants were more showy and more pretentious far than
                        this interior of Brent's. But her unerring instinct of those born
                        with good taste knew at first view of them that they were simply costly;
                        there were beautiful things in them, fine carvings and paintings and
                        tapestries, but personality was lacking. And 
                        without personality there can be no unity; without unity there can be no
                        harmony—and without harmony, no beauty.
                    Looking round her now, she had her first deep draught of esthetic delight in
                        interior decoration. She loved this quiet dignity, this large
                        simplicity—nothing that obtruded, nothing that jarred, everything
                        on the same scale of dark coloring and large size. She admired the way the
                        mirror, without pretense of being anything but a mirror, enhanced the
                        spaciousness of the room and doubled the pleasure it gave by offering
                        another and different view of it.
                    Last of all Susan caught sight of herself—a slim, slightly stooped
                        figure, its white dress and its big black hat with white trimmings making it
                        stand out strongly against the rather somber background. In a curiously
                        impersonal way her own sad, wistful face interested her. A human
                        being's face is a summary of his career. No man can realize at a
                        thought what he is, can epitomize in just proportion what has been made of
                        him by experience of the multitude of moments of which life is composed. But
                        in some moods and in some lights we do get such an all-comprehending view of
                        ourselves in looking at our own faces. As she had instinctively felt, there
                        was a world of meaning in the contrast between her pensive brow above
                        melancholy eyes and the blood-red line of her rouged lips.
                    The butler descended. "Mr. Brent is in his library, on the fourth
                        floor," said he. "Will you kindly step this way,
                        ma'am?"
                    Instead of indicating the stairway, he went to the panel next the chimney
                        piece. She saw that it was a hidden door admitting to an elevator. She
                        entered; the door closed; the elevator ascended rapidly. When  it came to a stop the door opened and she was
                        facing Brent.
                    "Thank you for coming," said he, with almost formal
                        courtesy.
                    For all her sudden shyness, she cast a quick but seeing look round. It was an
                        overcast day; the soft floods of liquid light—the beautiful light
                        of her beloved City of the Sun—poured into the big room through an
                        enormous window of clear glass which formed the entire north wall. Round the
                        other walls from floor almost to lofty ceiling were books in solid rows; not
                        books with ornamental bindings, but books for use, books that had been and
                        were being used. By way of furniture there were an immense lounge, wide and
                        long and deep, facing the left chimney piece, an immense table desk facing
                        the north light, three great chairs with tall backs, one behind the table,
                        one near the end of the table, the third in the corner farthest from the
                        window; a grand piano, open, with music upon its rack, and a long carved
                        seat at its keyboard. The huge window had a broad sill upon which was built
                        a generous window garden fresh and lively with bright flowers. The woodwork,
                        the ceiling, the furniture were of mahogany. The master of this splendid
                        simplicity was dressed in a blue house suit of some summer material like
                        linen. He was smoking a cigarette, and offered her one from the great carved
                        wood box filled with them on the table desk.
                    "Thanks," said she. And when she had lighted it and was
                        seated facing him as he sat at his desk, she felt almost at her ease. After
                        all, while his gaze was penetrating, it was also understanding; we do not
                        mind being unmasked if the unmasker at once hails us as brother.
                        Brent's eyes seemed to say to her, "Human!—like
                             me." She smoked and let her gaze
                        wander from her books to window garden, from window garden to piano.
                    "You play?" said he.
                    "A very little. Enough for accompaniments to simple
                        songs."
                    "You sing?"
                    "Simple songs. I've had but a few lessons from a small-town
                        teacher."
                    "Let me hear."
                    She went to the piano, laid her cigarette in a tray ready beside the music
                        rack. She gave him the "Gipsy Queen," which she liked
                        because it expressed her own passion of revolt against restraints of every
                        conventional kind and her love for the open air and open sky. He somehow
                        took away all feeling of embarrassment; she felt so strongly that he
                        understood and was big enough not to have it anywhere in him to laugh at
                        anything sincere. When she finished she resumed her cigarette and returned
                        to the chair near his.
                    "It's as I thought," said he. "Your voice
                        can be trained—to speak, I mean. I don't know as to its
                        singing value. . . . Have you good health?"
                    "I never have even colds. Yes, I'm strong."
                    "You'll need it."
                    "I have needed it," said she. Into her face came the sad,
                        bitter expression with its curious relief of a faint cynical smile.
                    He leaned back in his chair and looked at her through a cloud of smoke. She
                        saw that his eyes were not gray, as she had thought, but brown, a hazel
                        brown with points of light sparkling in the irises and taking away all the
                        suggestion of weakness and sentimentality that  makes pure brown eyes unsatisfactory in a man. He said slowly:
                    "When I saw you—in the Martin—you were on the way
                        down. You went, I see."
                    She nodded. "I'm still there."
                    "You like it? You wish to stay?"
                    She shook her head smilingly. "No, but I can stay if it's
                        necessary. I've discovered that I've got the health and
                        the nerves for anything."
                    "That's a great discovery. . . . Well, you'll soon
                        be on your way up. . . . Do you wish to know why I spoke to you this
                        morning?—Why I remembered you?"
                    "Why?"
                    "Because of the expression of your eyes—when your face is
                        in repose."
                    She felt no shyness—and no sense of necessity of responding to a
                        compliment, for his tone forbade any thought of flattery. She lowered her
                        gaze to conceal the thoughts his words brought—the memories of the
                        things that had caused her eyes to look as Rod and now Brent said.
                    "Such an expression," the playwright went on,
                        "must mean character. I am sick and tired of the vanity of these
                        actresses who can act just enough never to be able to learn to act well.
                        I'm going to try an experiment with you. I've tried it
                        several times but—No matter. I'm not discouraged. I never
                        give up. . . . Can you stand being alone?"
                    "I spend most of my time alone. I prefer it."
                    "I thought so. Yes—you'll do. Only the few who can
                        stand being alone ever get anywhere. Everything worth while is done alone.
                        The big battle—it isn't fought in the field, but by the
                        man sitting alone in his tent, working it all out. The bridge—the
                        tunnel  through the great
                        mountains—the railway—the huge business
                        enterprise—all done by the man alone, thinking, plotting to the
                        last detail. It's the same way with the novel, the picture, the
                        statue, the play—writing it, acting it—all done by someone
                        alone, shut in with his imagination and his tools. I saw that you were one
                        of the lonely ones. All you need is a chance. You'd surely get it,
                        sooner or later. Perhaps I can bring it a little sooner. . . . How much do
                        you need to live on?"
                    "I must have fifty dollars a week—if I go on at—as
                        I am now. If you wish to take all my time—then,
                        forty."
                    He smiled in a puzzled way.
                    "The police," she explained. "I need
                        ten—"
                    "Certainly—certainly," cried he. "I
                        understand—perfectly. How stupid of me! I'll want all your
                        time. So it's to be forty dollars a week. When can you
                        begin?"
                    Susan reflected. "I can't go into anything that'll
                        mean a long time," she said. "I'm waiting for a
                        man—a friend of mine—to get well. Then we're
                        going to do something together."
                    Brent made an impatient gesture. "An actor? Well, I suppose I can
                        get him something to do. But I don't want you to be under the
                        influence of any of these absurd creatures who think they know what acting
                        is—when they merely know how to dress themselves in different suits
                        of clothes, and strut themselves about the stage. They'd rather die
                        than give up their own feeble, foolish little identities. I'll see
                        that your actor friend is taken care of, but you must keep away from
                        him—for the time at least."
                    "He's all I've got. He's an old
                        friend."
                    
                    "You—care for him?"
                    "I used to. And lately I found him again—after we had been
                        separated a long time. We're going to help each other
                        up."
                    "Oh—he's down and out—eh?
                        Why?"
                    "Drink—and hard luck."
                    "Not hard luck. That helps a man. It has helped you. It has made you
                        what you are."
                    "What am I?" asked Susan.
                    Brent smiled mysteriously. "That's what we're
                        going to find out," said he. "There's no human
                        being who has ever had a future unless he or she had a past—and the
                        severer the past the more splendid the future."
                    Susan was attending with all her senses. This man was putting into words her
                        own inarticulate instincts.
                    "A past," he went on in his sharp, dogmatic way,
                        "either breaks or makes. You go into the crucible a mere ore, a
                        possibility. You come out slag or steel." He was standing now,
                        looking down at her with quizzical eyes. "You're about due
                        to leave the pot," said he.
                    "And I've hopes that you're steel. If
                        not—" He shrugged his
                        shoulders—"You'll have had forty a week for your
                        time, and I'll have gained useful experience."
                    Susan gazed at him as if she doubted her eyes and ears.
                    "What do you want me to do?" she presently inquired.
                    "Learn the art of acting—which consists of two parts.
                        First, you must learn to act—thousands of the profession do that.
                        Second, you must learn not to act—and so far I know there
                        aren't a dozen in the whole world who've got that far
                        along. I've written  a play I think
                        well of. I want to have it done properly—it, and several other
                        plays I intend to write. I'm going to give you a chance to become
                        famous—better still, great."
                    Susan looked at him incredulously. "Do you know who I am?"
                        she asked at last.
                    "Certainly."
                    Her eyes lowered, the faintest tinge of red changed the amber-white pallor of
                        her cheeks, her bosom rose and fell quickly.
                    "I don't mean," he went on, "that I know
                        any of the details of your experience. I only know the results as they are
                        written in your face. The details are un-important. When I say I know who
                        you are, I mean I know that you are a woman who has suffered, whose heart
                        has been broken by suffering, but not her spirit. Of where you came from or
                        how you've lived, I know nothing. And it's none of my
                        business—no more than it's the public's business
                        where I came from and how I've learned to write
                        plays."
                    Well, whether he was guessing any part of the truth or all of it, certainly
                        what she had said about the police and now this sweeping statement of his
                        attitude toward her freed her of the necessity of disclosing herself. She
                        eagerly tried to dismiss the thoughts that had been making her most uneasy.
                        She said:
                    "You think I can learn to act?"
                    "That, of course," replied he. "Any intelligent
                        person can learn to act—and also most persons who have no more
                        intelligence in their heads than they have in their feet. I'll
                        guarantee you some sort of career. What I'm interested to find out
                        is whether you can learn not to act. I believe you can.
                        But—" He laughed in self-mockery. "I've
                        made several absurd  mistakes in that
                        direction. . . . You have led a life in which most women become the cheapest
                        sort of liars—worse liars even than is the usual respectable
                        person, because they haven't the restraint of fearing loss of
                        reputation. Why is it you have not become a liar?"
                    Susan laughed. "I'm sure I don't know. Perhaps
                        because lying is such a tax on the memory. May I have another
                        cigarette?"
                    He held the match for her. "You don't paint—except
                        your lips," he went on, "though you have no color. And you
                        don't wear cheap finery. And while you use a strong scent,
                        it's not one of the cheap and nasty kind—it's
                        sensual without being slimy. And you don't use the kind of words
                        one always hears in your circle."
                    Susan looked immensely relieved. "Then you do know
                        who I am!" she cried.
                    "You didn't suppose I thought you fresh from a fashionable
                        boarding school, did you? I'd hardly look there for an actress who
                        could act. You've got
                        experience—experience—experience—written all over
                        your face—sadly, satirically, scornfully, gayly, bitterly. And what
                        I want is experience—not merely having been through things, but
                        having been through them under-standingly. You'll help me in my
                        experiment?"
                    He looked astonished, then irritated, when the girl, instead of accepting
                        eagerly, drew back in her chair and seemed to be debating. His irritation
                        showed still more plainly when she finally said:
                    "That depends on him. And he—he thinks you don't
                        like him."
                    "What's his name?" said Brent in his abrupt,
                        intense fashion. "What's his name?"
                    "Spenser—Roderick Spenser."
                    
                    Brent looked vague.
                    "He used to be on the Herald. He writes
                        plays."
                    "Oh—yes. I remember. He's a weak
                        fool."
                    Susan abruptly straightened, an ominous look in eyes and brow.
                    Brent made an impatient gesture. "Beg pardon. Why be sensitive about
                        him? Obviously because you know I'm right. I said fool, not ass.
                        He's clever, but ridiculously vain. I don't dislike him. I
                        don't care anything about him—or about anybody else in the
                        world. No man does who amounts to anything. With a career it's as
                        Jesus said—leave father and mother, husband and wife—land,
                        ox—everything—and follow it."
                    "What for?" said Susan.
                    "To save your soul! To be a somebody; to be strong. To be able to
                        give to anybody and everybody—whatever they need. To be
                        happy."
                    "Are you happy?"
                    "No," he admitted. "But I'm growing in
                        that direction. . . . Don't waste yourself on Stevens—I
                        beg pardon, Spenser. You're bigger than that. He's a small
                        man with large dreams—a hopeless misfit. Small dreams for small
                        men; large dreams for—" he laughed—"you
                        and me—our sort."
                    Susan echoed his laugh, but faint-heartedly. "I've watched
                        your name in the papers," she said, sincerely unconscious of
                        flattery. "I've seen you grow more and more famous.
                        But—if there had been anything in me, would I have gone down and
                        down?"
                    "How old are you?"
                    "About twenty-one."
                    "Only twenty-one—and that look in your face! Magnificent! I
                        don't believe I'm to be disappointed  this time. You ask why you've gone down! You
                        haven't. You've gone through."
                    
                    "Down," she insisted, sadly.
                    "Nonsense! The soot'll rub off the steel."
                    She lifted her head eagerly. Her own secret thought put into words.
                    "You can't make steel without soot and dirt. You
                        can't make anything without dirt. That's why the nice,
                        prim, silly world's full of cabinets exhibiting little chips of raw
                        material polished up neatly in one or two spots. That's why there
                        are so few men and women—and those few have had to make themselves,
                        or are made by accident. You're an accident, I suppose. The women
                        who amount to anything usually are. The last actress I tried to do anything
                        with might have become a somebody if it hadn't been for one thing:
                        She had a hankering for respectability—a yearning to be a society
                        person—to be thought well of by society people. It did for
                        her."
                    "I'll not sink on that rock," said Susan
                        cheerfully.
                    "No secret longing for social position?"
                    "None. Even if I would, I couldn't."
                    "That's one heavy handicap out of the way. But
                        I'll not let myself begin to hope until I find out whether
                        you've got incurable and unteachable vanity. If you
                        have—then, no hope. If you
                        haven't—there's a fighting chance."
                    "You forget my compact," Susan reminded him.
                    "Oh—the lover—Spenser."
                    Brent reflected, strolled to the big window, his hands deep in his pockets.
                        Susan took advantage of his back to give way to her own feelings of utter
                        amazement and incredulity. She certainly was not dreaming. And the man
                        gazing out at the window was certainly flesh 
                        and blood—a great man, if voluble and eccentric. Perhaps to act and
                        speak as one pleased was one of the signs of greatness, one of its
                        perquisites. Was he amusing himself with her? Was he perchance taken with
                        her physically and employing these extraordinary methods as ways of
                        approach? She had seen many peculiarities of sex-approach in
                        men—some grotesque, many terrible, all beyond comprehension. Was
                        this another such?
                    He wheeled suddenly, surprised her eyes upon him. He burst out laughing, and
                        she felt that he had read her thoughts. However, he merely said:
                    "Have you anything to suggest—about Spenser?"
                    "I can't even tell him of your offer now. He's
                        very ill—and sensitive about you."
                    "About me? How ridiculous! I'm always coming across men I
                        don't know who are full of venom toward me. I suppose he thinks I
                        crowded him. No matter. You're sure you're not fancying
                        yourself in love with him?"
                    "No, I am not in love with him. He has changed—and so have
                        I."
                    He smiled at her. "Especially in the last hour?" he
                        suggested.
                    "I had changed before that. I had been changing right along. But I
                        didn't realize it fully until you talked with me—no, until
                        after you gave me your card this morning."
                    "You saw a chance—a hope—eh?"
                    She nodded.
                    "And at once became all nerves and courage. . . . As to
                        Spenser—I'll have some play carpenter sent to collaborate
                        with him and set him up in the play business. You know it's a
                        business as well as an art. And  the chromos
                        sell better than the oil paintings—except the finest ones.
                        It's my chromos that have earned me the means and the leisure to
                        try oils."
                    He'd never consent. He's very proud."
                    "Vain, you mean. Pride will consent to anything as a means to an
                        end. It's vanity that's squeamish and haughty. He
                        needn't know."
                    "But I couldn't discuss any change with him until
                        he's much better."
                    "I'll send the play carpenter to him—get Fitzalan
                        to send one of his carpenters." Brent smiled. "You
                        don't think he'll hang back because of
                        the compact, do you?"
                    Susan flushed painfully. "No," she admitted in a low
                        voice.
                    Brent was still smiling at her, and the smile was cynical. But his tone
                        soothed where his words would have wounded, as he went on: "A man
                        of his sort—an average, 'there-are-two-kinds-of-women,
                        good-and-bad' sort of man—has but one use for a woman of
                        your sort."
                    "I know that," said Susan.
                    "Do you mind it?"
                    "Not much. I'd not mind it at all if I felt that I was
                        somebody."
                    Brent put his hand on her shoulder. "You'll do, Miss
                        Lenox," he said with quiet heartiness. "You may not be so
                        big a somebody as you and I would like. But you'll count as one,
                        all right."
                    She looked at him with intense appeal in her eyes. "Why?"
                        she said earnestly. "Why do you do
                        this?"
                    He smiled gravely down at her—as gravely as Brent could
                        smile—with the quizzical suggestion never absent  from his handsome face, so full of life and
                        intelligence. "I've been observing your
                        uneasiness," said he. "Now listen. It would be impossible
                        for you to judge me, to understand me. You are young and as yet small. I am
                        forty, and have lived twenty-five of my forty years intensely. So,
                        don't fall into the error of shallow people and size me up by your
                        own foolish little standards. Do you see what I mean?"
                    Susan's candid face revealed her guilt. "Yes,"
                        said she, rather humbly.
                    "I see you do understand," said he. "And
                        that's a good sign. Most people, hearing what I said, would have
                        disregarded it as merely my vanity, would have gone on with their silly
                        judging, would have set me down as a conceited ass who by some accident had
                        got a reputation. But to proceed—I have not chosen you on impulse.
                        Long and patient study has made me able to judge character by the face, as a
                        horse dealer can judge horses by looking at them. I don't need to
                        read every line of a book to know whether it's wise or foolish,
                        worth while or not. I don't need to know a human being for years or
                        for hours or for minutes even, before I can measure certain things. I
                        measured you. It's like astronomy. An astronomer wants to get the
                        orbit of a star. He takes its position twice—and from the two
                        observations he can calculate the orbit to the inch. I've got three
                        observations of your orbit. Enough—and to spare."
                    "I shan't misunderstand again," said Susan.
                    "One thing more," insisted Brent. "In our
                        relations, we are to be not man and woman, but master and pupil. I
                        shan't waste your time with any—other
                        matters."
                    It was Susan's turn to laugh. "That's your polite
                             way of warning me not to waste any of
                        your time with—other matters."
                    "Precisely," conceded he. "A man in my
                        position—a man in any sort of position, for that matter—is
                        much annoyed by women trying to use their sex with him. I wished to make it
                        clear at the outset that—"
                    "That I could gain nothing by neglecting the trade of actress for
                        the trade of woman," interrupted Susan. "I understand
                        perfectly."
                    He put out his hand. "I see that at least we'll get on
                        together. I'll have Fitzalan send the carpenter to your friend at
                        one."
                    "Today!" exclaimed Susan, in surprise and delight.
                    "Why not?" He arranged paper and pen. "Sit here
                        and write Spenser's address, and your own. Your salary begins with
                        today. I'll have my secretary mail you a check. And as soon as I
                        can see you again, I'll send you a telegram.
                        Meanwhile—" He rummaged among a lot of paper bound plays
                        on the table—"Here's 'Cavalleria
                        Rusticana.' Read it with a view to yourself as either Santuzza or Lola. Study her first
                        entrance—what you would do with it. Don't be frightened. I
                        expect nothing from you—nothing whatever. I'm glad you
                        know nothing about acting. You'll have the less to
                        unlearn."
                    They had been moving towards the elevator. He shook hands again and, after
                        adjusting the mechanism for the descent, closed the door. As it was closing
                        she saw in his expression that his mind had already dismissed her for some
                        one of the many other matters that crowded his life.
                
                
                
                    XIII
                    
                        THE Susan Lenox who left Delancey Street at half past two
                        that afternoon to call upon Robert Brent was not the Susan Lenox who
                        returned to Delancey Street at half-past five. A man is wandering, lost in a
                        cave, is groping this way and that in absolute darkness, with flagging hope
                        and fainting strength—has reached the point where he wonders at his
                        own folly in keeping on moving—is persuading himself that the
                        sensible thing would be to lie down and give up. He sees a gleam of light.
                        Is it a reality? Is it an illusion—one more of the illusions that
                        have lured him on and on? He does not know; but instantly a fire sweeps
                        through him, warming his dying strength into vigor.
                    So it was with Susan.
                    The pariah class—the real pariah class—does not consist of
                        merely the women formally put beyond the pale for violations of conventional
                        morality and the men with the brand of thief or gambler upon them. Our
                        social, our industrial system has made it far vaster. It includes almost the
                        whole population—all those who sell body or brain or soul in an
                        uncertain market for uncertain hire, to gain the day's food and
                        clothing, the night's shelter. This vast mass floats hither and yon
                        on the tides and currents of destiny. Now it halts, resting sluggishly in a
                        dead calm; again it moves, sometimes slowly, sometimes under the lash of
                        tempest. But it is ever the same vast inertia, with no particle of it
                        possessing an aim beyond keeping afloat and alive.
                    
                    Susan had been an atom, a spray of weed, in this Sargasso Sea.
                    If you observe a huge, unwieldy crowd so closely packed that nothing can be
                        done with it and it can do nothing with itself, you will note three
                        different types. There are the entirely inert—and they make up most
                        of the crowd. They do not resist; they help-lessly move this way and that as
                        the chance waves of motion prompt. Of this type is the overwhelming majority
                        of the human race. Here and there in the mass you will see examples of a
                        second type. These are individuals who are restive and resentful under the
                        sense of helplessness and impotence. They struggle now gently, now
                        furiously. They thrust backward or forward or to one side. They thresh
                        about. But nothing comes of their efforts beyond a brief agitation, soon
                        dying away in ripples. The inertia of the mass and their own lack of purpose
                        conquer them. Occasionally one of these grows so angry and so violent that
                        the surrounding inertia quickens into purpose—the purpose of making
                        an end of this agitation which is serving only to increase the general
                        discomfort. And the agitator is trampled down, disappears, perhaps silently,
                        perhaps with groan or shriek. Continue to look at this crowd, so pitiful, so
                        terrible, such a melancholy waste of incalculable power—continue to
                        observe and you may chance upon an example of the third type. You are likely
                        at first to confuse the third type with the second, for they seem to be much
                        alike. Here and there, of the resentful strugglers, will be one whose
                        resentment is intelligent. He struggles, but it is not aimless struggle. He
                        has seen or suspected in a definite direction a point where he would be more
                        or less free, perhaps entirely free. He realizes how he is  hemmed in realizes how difficult, how
                        dangerous, will be his endeavor to get to that point. And he proceeds to try
                        to minimize or overcome the difficulties, the dangers. He struggles now
                        gently, now earnestly, now violently—but always toward his fixed
                        objective. He is driven back, to one side, is almost overwhelmed. He causes
                        commotions that threaten to engulf him, and must pause or retreat until they
                        have calmed. You may have to watch him long before you discover that, where
                        other strugglers have been aimless, he aims and resolves. And little by
                        little he gains, makes progress toward his goal—and once in a long
                        while one such reaches that goal. It is triumph, success.
                    Susan, young, inexperienced, dazed; now too despondent, now too hopeful; now
                        too gentle and again too infuriated—Susan had been alternating
                        between inertia and purposeless struggle. Brent had given her the thing she
                        lacked—had given her a definite, concrete, tangible purpose. He had
                        shown her the place where, if she should arrive, she might be free of that
                        hideous slavery of the miserable mass; and he had inspired her with the hope
                        that she could reach it.
                    And that was the Susan Lenox who came back to the little room in Delancey
                        Street at half-past five.
                    Curiously, while she was thinking much about Brent, she was thinking even
                        more about Burlingham—about their long talks on the show boat and
                        in their wanderings in Louisville and Cincinnati. His philosophy, his
                        teachings—the wisdom he had, but was unable to apply—began
                        to come back to her. It was not strange that she should remember it, for she
                        had admired him intensely and had listened to his every word, and she was
                        then at the time when the memory takes its clearest and strongest
                        impressions. The strangeness lay  in the
                        suddenness with which Burlingham, so long dead, suddenly came to life,
                        changed from a sad and tender memory to a vivid possibility, advising her,
                        helping her, urging her on.
                    Clara, dressed to go to dinner with her lover, was waiting to arrange about
                        their meeting to make together the usual rounds in the evening.
                        "I've got an hour before I'm due at the
                        hospital," said Susan. "Let's go down to
                        Kelly's for a drink."
                    While they were going and as they sat in the clean little back room of
                        Kelly's well ordered and select corner saloon, Clara gave her all
                        the news she had gathered in an afternoon of visits among their
                        acquaintances—how, because of a neighborhood complaint, there was
                        to be a fake raid on Gussie's opium joint at midnight; that Mazie
                        had caught a frightful fever; and that Nettie was dying in Gouverneur of the
                        stab in the stomach her lover had given her at a ball three nights before;
                        that the police had raised the tariff for sporting houses, and would collect
                        seventy-five and a hundred a month protection money where the charge had
                        been twenty-five and fifty—the plea was that the reformers, just
                        elected and hoping for one term only, were compelling a larger fund from
                        vice than the old steady year-in-and-year-out ruling crowd. "And
                        they may raise us to fifteen a week," said Clara,
                        "though I doubt it. They'll not cut off their nose to
                        spite their face. If they raised the rate for the streets they'd
                        drive two-thirds of the girls back to the factories and sweat shops.
                        You're not listening, Lorna. What's up?"
                    Lorna. What's up?"
                    "Nothing."
                    "Your fellow's not had a relapse?"
                    "No—nothing."
                    
                    "Need some money? I can lend you ten. I did have twenty, but I gave
                        Sallie and that little Jew girl who's her side partner ten for the
                        bail bondsman. They got pinched last night for not paying up to the police.
                        They've gone crazy about that prize fighter—at least, he
                        thinks he is—that Joe O'Mara, and they're giving
                        him every cent they make. It's funny about Sallie. She's a
                        Catholic and goes to mass regular. And she keeps straight on
                        Sunday—no money'll tempt her—I've seen
                        it tried. Do you want the ten?"
                    "No. I've got plenty."
                    "We must look in at that Jolly Rovers' ball tonight.
                        There'll be a lot of fellows with money there.
                    "We can sure pull off something pretty good. Anyhow, we'll
                        have fun. But you don't care for the dances. Well, they are a waste
                        of time. And because the men pay for a few bum drinks and dance with a girl,
                        they don't want to give up anything more. How's she to
                        live, I want to know?"
                    "Would you like to get out of this, Clara?" interrupted
                        Susan, coming out of her absent-minded-ness.
                    "Would I! But what's the use of talking?"
                    "But I mean, would you really?"
                    
                    "Oh—if there was something better. But is there? I
                        don't see how I'd be as well off, respectable. As I said
                        to the rescue woman, what is there in it for a 'reclaimed'
                        girl, as they call it? When they ask a man to reform they can offer him
                        something—and he can go on up and up. But not for girls. Nothing
                        doing but charity and pity and the second table and the back door. I can
                        make more money at this and have a better time, as long as my looks last.
                        And I've turned down already a couple of chances to
                        marry—men that  wouldn't
                        have looked at me if I'd been in a store or a factory or living
                        out. I may marry."
                    "Don't do that," said Susan. "Marriage
                        makes brutes of men, and slaves of women."
                    "You speak as if you knew."
                    "I do," said Susan, in a tone that forbade question.
                    "I ain't exactly stuck on the idea myself,"
                        pursued Clara. "And if I don't, why when my looks are
                        gone, where am I worse off than I'd be at the same age as a working
                        girl? If I have to get a job then, I can get it—and I'll
                        not be broken down like the respectable women at thirty—those that
                        work or those that slop round boozing and neglecting their children while
                        their husbands work. Of course, there's chances against you in this
                        business. But so there is in every business. Suppose I worked in a factory
                        and lost a leg in the machinery, like that girl of Mantell, the
                        bricklayer's? Suppose I get an awful disease—to hear some
                        people talk you'd think there wasn't any chances of death
                        or horrible diseases at respectable work. Why, how could anybody be worse
                        off than if they got lung trouble and boils as big as your fist like those
                        girls over in the tobacco factory?"
                    "You needn't tell me about work," said Susan.
                        "The streets are full of wrecks from work—and the
                        hospitals—and the graveyard over on the Island. You can always go
                        to that slavery. But I mean a respectable life, with everything
                        better."
                    "Has one of those swell women from uptown been after
                        you?"
                    "No. This isn't a pious pipe dream."
                    "You sound like it. One of them swell silk smarties got at me when I
                        was in the hospital with the fever.
                    
                    She was a bird—she was. She handed me a line of grand talk, and I,
                        being sort of weak with sickness, took it in. Well, when she got right down
                        to business, what did she want me to do? Be a dressmaker or a
                        lady's maid. Me—work twelve, fourteen, God knows how many
                        hours—be too tired to have any fun—travel round with dead
                        ones—be a doormat for a lot of cheap people that are
                        tryin' to make out they ain't human like the rest of us.
                            Me! And when I said, 'No, thank
                        you,' what do you think?"
                    "Did she offer to get you a good home in the country?" said
                        Susan.
                    "That was it. The country! The nerve of her! But I
                        called her bluff, all right, all right. I says to her, 'Are you
                        going to the country to live?' And she reared at me daring to question her, and said she
                        wasn't. 'You'd find it dead slow,
                        wouldn't you?' says I. And she kind o' laughed
                        and looked almost human. 'Then,' says I, 'no more
                        am I going to the country. I'll take my chances in little old New
                        York,' I says."
                    "I should think so!" exclaimed Susan.
                    "I'd like to be respectable, if I could afford it. But
                        there's nothing in that game for poor girls unless they
                        haven't got no looks to sell and have to sell the rest of
                        themselves for some factory boss to get rich off of while they get poorer
                        and weaker every day. And when they say 'God' to me, I
                        say, 'Who's he? He must be somebody that lives up on Fifth
                        Avenue. We ain't seen him down our way.'"
                    "I mean, go on the stage," resumed Susan.
                    "I wouldn't mind, if I could get in right. Everything in
                        this world depends on getting in right. I was born four flights up in a
                        tenement, and I've been in wrong ever since."
                    
                    "I was in wrong from the beginning, too," said Susan,
                        thoughtfully. "In wrong—that's it
                        exactly." Clara's eyes again became eager with the hope of
                        a peep into the mystery of Susan's origin. But Susan went on,
                        "Yes, I've always been in wrong. Always."
                    "Oh, no," declared Clara. "You've got
                        education—and manners—and ladylike instincts. I'm
                        at home here. I was never so well off in my life. I'm, you might
                        say, on my way up in the world. Most of us girls are—like the
                        fellow that ain't got nothing to eat or no place to sleep and gets
                        into jail—he's better off, ain't he? But
                        you—you don't belong here at all."
                    "I belong anywhere—and everywhere—and
                        nowhere," said Susan. "Yes, I belong here. I've
                        got a chance uptown. If it pans out, I'll let you in."
                    Clara looked at her wistfully. Clara had a wicked temper when she was in
                        liquor, and had the ordinary human proneness to lying, to mischievous
                        gossip, and to utter laziness. The life she led, compelling cleanliness and
                        neatness and a certain amount of thrift under penalty of instant ruin, had
                        done her much good in saving her from going to pieces and becoming the
                        ordinary sloven and drag on the energies of some man.
                        "Lorna," she now said, "I do believe you like me
                        a little."
                    "More than that," Susan assured her.
                        "You've saved me from being hard-hearted. I must go to the
                        hospital. So long!"
                    "How about this evening?" asked Clara.
                    "I'm staying in. I've got something to
                        do."
                    "Well—I may be home early—unless I go to the
                        ball."
                    Susan was refused admittance at the hospital. Spenser,  they said, had received a caller, had taxed his strength
                        enough for the day. Nor would it be worth while to return in the morning.
                        The same caller was coming again. Spenser had said she was to come in the
                        afternoon. She received this cheerfully, yet not without a certain sense of
                        hurt—which, however, did not last long.
                    When she was admitted to Spenser the following afternoon, she faced him
                        guiltily—for the thoughts Brent had set to bubbling and boiling in
                        her. And her guilt showed in the tone of her greeting, in the reluctance and
                        forced intensity of her greeting, in the reluctance and forced intensity of
                        her kiss and embrace. She had compressed into the five most receptive years
                        of a human being's life an experience that was, for one of her
                        intelligence and education, equal to many times five years of ordinary life.
                        And this experience had developed her instinct for concealing her deep
                        feelings into a fixed habit. But it had not made her a liar—had not
                        robbed her of her fundamental courage and self-respect which made her shrink
                        in disdain from deceiving anyone who seemed to her to have the right to
                        frankness. Spenser, she felt as always, had that right—this, though
                        he had not been frank with her; still, that was a matter for his own
                        conscience and did not affect her conscience as to what was courageous and
                        honorable toward him. So, had he been observing, he must have seen that
                        something was wrong. But he was far too excited about his own affairs to
                        note her.
                    "My luck's turned!" cried he, after kissing her
                        with enthusiasm. "Fitzalan has sent Jack Sperry to me, and
                        we're to collaborate on a play. I told you Fitz was the real
                        thing."
                    Susan turned hastily away to hide her telltale face.
                    
                    "Who's Sperry?" asked she, to gain time for
                        self-control.
                    "Oh, he's a play-smith—and a bear at it. He has
                        knocked together half a dozen successes. He'll supply the trade
                        experience that I lack, and Fitzalan will be sure to put on our
                        piece."
                    "You're a lot better—aren't
                        you?"
                    "Better? I'm almost well."
                    He certainly had made a sudden stride toward health. By way of doing
                        something progressive he had had a shave, and that had restored the look of
                        youth to his face—or, rather, had uncovered it. A strong, handsome
                        face it was—much handsomer than Brent's—and with
                        the subtle, moral weakness of optimistic vanity well concealed. Yes, much
                        handsomer than Brent's, which wasn't really handsome at
                        all—yet was superbly handsomer, also—the handsomeness that
                        comes from being through and through a somebody. She saw again why she had
                        cared for Rod so deeply; but she also saw why she could not care again, at
                        least not in that same absorbed, self-effacing way. Physical
                        attraction—yes. And a certain remnant of the feeling of
                        comradeship, too. But never again utter belief, worshipful
                        admiration—or any other degree of belief or admiration beyond the
                        mild and critical. She herself had grown. Also, Brent's penetrating
                        and just analysis of Spenser had put clearly before her precisely what he
                        was—precisely what she herself had been vaguely thinking of
                        him.
                    As he talked on and on of Sperry's visit and the new projects, she
                        listened, looking at his character in the light Brent had turned upon
                        it—Brent who had in a few brief moments turned such floods of light
                        upon so many things she had been seeing dimly or  not at all. Moderate prosperity and moderate adversity bring
                        out the best there is in a man; the extreme of either brings out his worst.
                        The actual man is the best there is in him, and not the worst, but it is one
                        of the tragedies of life that those who have once seen his worst ever
                        afterward have sense of it chiefly, and cannot return to the feeling they
                        had for him when his worst was undreamed of. "I'm not in
                        love with Brent," thought Susan. "But having known him, I
                        can't ever any more care for Rod. He seems small beside
                        Brent—and he is small."
                    Spenser in his optimistic dreaming aloud had reached a point where it was
                        necessary to assign Susan a rôle in his dazzling career.
                        "You'll not have to go on the stage," said he.
                        "I'll look out for you. By next week Sperry and I will
                        have got together a scenario for the play and when Sperry reads it to
                        Fitzalan we'll get an advance of at least five hundred. So you and
                        I will take a nice room and bath uptown—as a starter—and
                        we'll be happy again—happier than before."
                    "No, I'm going to support myself," said Susan
                        promptly.
                    "Trash!" cried Spenser, smiling tenderly at her.
                        "Do you suppose I'd allow you to mix up in stage life?
                        You've forgotten how jealous I am of you. You don't know
                        what I've suffered since I've been here sick, brooding
                        over what you're doing, to—"
                    She laid her fingers on his lips. "What's the use of
                        fretting about anything that has to be?" said she, smilingly.
                        "I'm going to support myself. You may as well make up your
                        mind to it."
                    "Plenty of time to argue that out," said he, and his tone
                        forecast his verdict on the arguing. And he changed the subject by saying,
                        "I see you still  cling to your fad
                        of looking fascinating about the feet. That was one of the reasons I never
                        could trust you. A girl with as charming feet and ankles as you have, and so
                        much pride in getting them up well, simply cannot be trustworthy."
                        He laughed. "No, you were made to be taken care of, my
                        dear."
                    She did not press the matter. She had taken her stand; that was enough for
                        the present. After an hour with him, she went home to get herself something
                        to eat on her gas stove. Spenser's confidence in the future did not
                        move her even to the extent of laying out half a dollar on a restaurant
                        dinner. Women have the habit of believing in the optimistic outpourings of
                        egotistical men, and often hasten men along the road to ruin by proclaiming
                        this belief and acting upon it. But not intelligent women of experience;
                        that sort of woman, by checking optimistic husbands, fathers, sons, lovers,
                        has even put off ruin—sometimes until death has had the chance to
                        save the optimist from the inevitable consequence of his folly. When she
                        finished her chop and vegetable, instead of lighting a cigarette and
                        lingering over a cup of black coffee she quickly straightened up and began
                        upon the play Brent had given her. She had read it several times the night
                        before, and again and again during the day. But not until now did she feel
                        sufficiently calmed down from her agitations of thought and emotion to
                        attack the play understandingly.
                    Thanks to defective education the most enlightened of us go through life much
                        like a dim-sighted man who has no spectacles. Almost the whole of the
                        wonderful panorama of the universe is unseen by us, or, if seen, is but
                        partially understood or absurdly misunderstood. When it comes to the subtler
                        things, the things of  science and art, rarely
                        indeed is there anyone who has the necessary training to get more than the
                        crudest, most imperfect pleasure from them. What little training we have is
                        so limping that it spoils the charm of mystery with which savage ignorance
                        invests the universe from blade of grass to star, and does not put in place
                        of that broken charm the profounder and loftier joy of understanding. To
                        take for illustration the most widely diffused of all the higher arts and
                        sciences, reading: How many so-called "educated" people
                        can read understandingly even a novel, the form of literature designed to
                        make the least demand upon the mind? People say they have read, but, when
                        questioned, they show that they have got merely a glimmering of the real
                        action, the faintest hint of style and characterization, have perhaps noted
                        some stray epigram which they quote with evidently faulty grasp of its
                        meaning.
                    When the thing read is a play, almost no one can get from it a coherent
                        notion of what it is about. Most of us have nothing that can justly be
                        called imagination; our early training at home and at school killed in the
                        shoot that finest plant of the mind's garden. So there is no
                        ability to fill in the picture which the dramatic author draws in outline.
                        Susan had not seen "Cavalleria Rusticana" either as play
                        or as opera. But when she and Spenser were together in Forty—fourth
                        Street, she had read plays and had dreamed over them; the talk had been
                        almost altogether of plays—of writing plays, of constructing
                        scenes, of productions, of acting, of all the many aspects of the theater.
                        Spenser read scenes to her, got her to help him with criticism, and she was
                        present when he went over his work with Drumley, Riggs, Townsend and the
                        others.  Thus, reading a play was no untried
                        art to her.
                    She read "Cavalleria" through slowly, taking about an hour
                        to it. She saw now why Brent had given it to her as the primer
                        lesson—the simple, elemental story of a peasant girl's
                        ruin under promise of marriage; of her lover's wearying of one who
                        had only crude physical charm; of his being attracted by a young married
                        woman, gay as well as pretty, offering the security in intrigue that an
                        unmarried woman could not offer. Such a play is at once the easiest and the
                        hardest to act—the easiest because every audience understands it
                        perfectly and supplies unconsciously almost any defect in the acting; the
                        hardest because any actor with the education necessary to acting well finds
                        it next to impossible to divest himself or herself of the sophistications of
                        education and get back to the elemental animal.
                    
                        Santuzza or Lola? Susan debated. Santuzza was the big and easy part; Lola, the smaller part, was of the kind that is usually neglected.
                        But Susan saw possibilities in the character of the woman who won Turiddu away—the triumphant woman. The two women
                        represented the two kinds of love—the love that is serious, the
                        love that is light. And experience had taught her why it is that human
                        nature soon tires of intensity, turns to frivolity. She felt that, if she
                        could act, she would try to show that not Turiddu's fickleness nor his contempt of the woman who
                        had yielded, but Santuzza's sad intensity and Lola's butterfly gayety had cost Santuzza her lover and her lover his life. So, it was not Santuzza's but Lola's
                        first entrance that she studied.
                    In the next morning's mail, under cover addressed "Miss
                        Susan Lenox, care of Miss Lorna Sackville," as  she had written it for Brent, came the promised check for
                        forty dollars. It was signed John P. Garvey, Secretary, and was inclosed
                        with a note bearing the same signature: 
                            
                                
                                    DEAR MADAM:
                                    
                                    Herewith I send you a check for forty dollars for the first
                                        week's salary under your arrangement with Mr.
                                        Brent. No receipt is necessary. Until further notice a check
                                        for the same amount will be mailed you each Thursday. Unless
                                        you receive notice to the contrary, please call as before,
                                        at three o'clock next Wednesday.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    It made her nervous to think of those five days before she should see Brent.
                        He had assured her he would expect nothing from her; but she felt she must
                        be able to show him that she had not been wasting her time—his
                        time, the time for which he was paying nearly six dollars a day. She must
                        work every waking hour, except the two hours each day at the hospital. She
                        recalled what Brent had said about the advantage of being contented
                        alone—and how everything worth doing must be done in solitude. She
                        had never thought about her own feelings as to company and solitude, as it
                        was not her habit to think about herself. But now she realized how solitary
                        she had been, and how it had bred in her habits of thinking and
                        reading—and how valuable these habits would be to her in her work.
                        There was Rod, for example. He hated being alone, must have someone around
                        even when he was writing; and he had no taste for order or system. She
                        understood why it was so hard for him to stick at anything, to put anything
                        through to the finish. With her fondness for being alone, with her passion
                        for reading and thinking about what she read, surely she ought  soon to begin to accomplish
                        something—if there was any ability in her.
                    She found Rod in higher spirits. Several ideas for his play had come to him;
                        he already saw it acted, successful, drawing crowded houses, bringing him in
                        anywhere from five hundred to a thousand a week. She was not troubled
                        hunting for things to talk about with him—she, who could think of
                        but one thing and that a secret from him. He talked his play, a steady
                        stream with not a seeing glance at her or a question about her. She watched
                        the little clock at the side of the bed. At the end of an hour to the
                        minute, she interrupted him in the middle of a sentence. "I must go
                        now," said she, rising.
                    "Sit down," he cried. "You can stay all day. The
                        doctor says it will do me good to have you to talk with. And Sperry
                        isn't coming until tomorrow."
                    "I can't do it," said she. "I must
                        go."
                    He misunderstood her avoiding glance. "Now, Susie—sit down
                        there," commanded he. "We've got plenty of money.
                        You—you needn't bother about it any more."
                    "We're not settled yet," said she. "Until
                        we are, I'd not dare take the risk." She was subtly adroit
                        by chance, not by design.
                    "Risk!" exclaimed he angrily. "There's no
                        risk. I've as good as got the advance money. Sit
                        down."
                    She hesitated. "Don't be angry," pleaded she in a
                        voice that faltered. "But I must go."
                    Into his eyes came the gleam of distrust and jealousy. "Look at
                        me," he ordered.
                    With some difficulty she forced her eyes to meet his.
                    "Have you got a lover?"
                    
                    "No."
                    "Then where do you get the money we're living
                        on?"
                    He counted on her being too humiliated to answer in words. Instead of the
                        hanging head and burning cheeks he saw clear, steady eyes, heard a calm,
                        gentle and dignified voice say:
                    "In the streets."
                    His eyes dropped and a look of abject shame made his face pitiable.
                        "Good Heavens," he muttered.
                    "How low we are!"
                    "We've been doing the best we could," said she
                        simply.
                    "Isn't there any decency anywhere in you?" he
                        flashed out, eagerly seizing the chance to forget his own shame in
                        contemplating her greater degradation.
                    She looked out of the window. There was something terrible in the calmness of
                        her profile. She finally said in an even, pensive voice:
                    "You have been intimate with a great many women, Rod. But you have
                        never got acquainted with a single one."
                    He laughed good-humoredly. "Oh, yes, I have. I've learned
                        that 'every woman is at heart a rake,' as Mr. Jingle Pope
                        says."
                    She looked at him again, her face now curiously lighted by her slow faint
                        smile. "Perhaps they showed you only what they thought
                        you'd be able to appreciate," she suggested.
                    He took this as evidence of her being jealous of him. "Tell me,
                        Susan, did you leave me—in Forty-fourth Street—because you
                        thought or heard I wasn't true to you?"
                    "What did Drumley tell you?"
                    
                    "I asked him, as you said in your note. He told me he knew no
                        reason."
                    So Drumley had decided it was best Rod should not know why she left. Well,
                        perhaps—probably—Drumley was right. But there was no
                        reason why he shouldn't know the truth now. "I
                        left," said she, "because I saw we were bad for each
                        other."
                    This amused him. She saw that he did not believe. It wounded her, but she
                        smiled carelessly. Her smile encouraged him to say: "I
                        couldn't quite make up my mind whether the reason was jealousy or
                        because you had the soul of a shameless woman. You see, I know human nature,
                        and I know that a woman who once crosses the line never crosses back.
                        I'll always have to watch you, my dear. But somehow I like it. I
                        guess you have—you and I have—a rotten streak in us. We
                        were brought up too strictly. That always makes one either too firm or too
                        loose. I used to think I liked good women. But I don't. They bore
                        me. That shows I'm rotten."
                    "Or that your idea of what's good is—is
                        mistaken."
                    "You don't pretend that you
                        haven't done wrong?" cried Rod.
                    "I might have done worse," replied she. "I might
                        have wronged others. No, Rod, I can't honestly say I've
                        ever felt wicked."
                    "Why, what brought you here?"
                    She reflected a moment, then smiled. "Two things brought me
                        down," said she. "In the first place, I wasn't
                        raised right. I was raised as a lady instead of as a human being. So I
                        didn't know how to meet the conditions of life. In the second
                        place—" her smile returned, broadened—"I
                        was too—too what's called
                        'good.'"
                    
                    "Pity about you!" mocked he.
                    "Being what's called good is all very well if
                        you're independent or if you've got a husband or a father
                        to do life's dirty work for you—or, perhaps, if you happen
                        to be in some profession like preaching or teaching—though I
                        don't believe the so-called 'goodness' would let
                        you get very far even as a preacher. In most lines, to practice what
                        we're taught as children would be to go to the bottom like a stone.
                        You know this is a hard world, Rod. It's full of men and women
                        fighting desperately for food and clothes and a roof to cover
                        them—fighting each other. And to get on you've got to have
                        the courage and the indifference to your fellow beings that'll
                        enable you to do it."
                    "There's a lot of truth in that," admitted
                        Spenser. "If I'd not been such a 'good
                        fellow,' as they call it—a fellow everybody
                        liked—if I'd been like Brent, for instance—Brent,
                        who never would have any friends, who never would do anything for anybody
                        but himself, who hadn't a thought except for his
                        career—why, I'd be where he is."
                    It was at the tip of Susan's tongue to say,
                        "Yes—strong—able to help others—able to
                        do things worth while." But she did not speak.
                    Rod went on: "I'm not going to be a fool any longer.
                        I'm going to be too busy to have friends or to help people or to do
                        anything but push my own interests."
                    Susan, indifferent to being thus wholly misunderstood, was again moving
                        toward the door. "I'll be back this evening, as
                        usual," said she.
                    Spenser's face became hard and lowering: "You're
                        going to stay here now, or you're not coming back," said
                        he. "You can take your choice. Do you want  me to know you've got the soul of a
                        streetwalker?"
                    She stood at the foot of the bed, gazing at the wall above his head.
                        "I must earn our expenses until we're safe," said
                        she, once more telling a literal truth that was yet a complete
                        deception.
                    "Why do you fret me?" exclaimed he. "Do you want
                        me to be sick again?"
                    "Suppose you didn't get the advance right away,"
                        urged she.
                    "I tell you I shall get it! And I won't have
                        you—do as you are doing. If you go, you go for keeps."
                    She seated herself. "Do you want me to read or take
                        dictation?"
                    His face expressed the satisfaction small people find in small successes at
                        asserting authority. "Don't be angry," said he.
                        "I'm acting for your good. I'm saving you from
                        yourself."
                    "I'm not angry," replied she, her strange eyes
                        resting upon him.
                    He shifted uncomfortably. "Now what does that look mean?"
                        he demanded with an uneasy laugh.
                    She smiled, shrugged her shoulders.
                    Sperry—small and thin, a weather-beaten, wooden face suggesting Mr.
                        Punch, sly keen eyes, theater in every tone and gesture—Sperry
                        pushed the scenario hastily to completion and was so successful with
                        Fitzalan that on Sunday afternoon he brought two hundred and fifty dollars,
                        Spenser's half of the advance money.
                    "Didn't I tell you!" said Spenser to Susan, in
                        triumph. "We'll move at once. Go pack your traps and put
                        them in a carriage, and by the time you're back here Sperry and the
                        nurses will have me ready."
                    
                    It was about three when Susan got to her room. Clara heard her come in and
                        soon appeared, bare feet in mules, hair hanging every which way. Despite the
                        softening effect of the white nightdress and of the framing of abundant
                        hair, her face was hard and coarse. She had been drunk on liquor and on
                        opium the night before, and the effects were wearing off. As she was only
                        twenty years old, the hard coarse look would withdraw before youth in a few
                        hours; it was there only temporarily as a foreshadowing of what Clara would
                        look like in five years or so.
                    "Hello, Lorna," said she. "Gee, what a bun my
                        fellow and I had on last night! Did you hear us scrapping when we came in
                        about five o'clock?"
                    "No," replied Susan. "I was up late and had a lot
                        to do, and was kept at the hospital all day. I guess I must have fallen
                        asleep."
                    "He gave me an awful beating," pursued Clara. "But
                        I got one good crack at him with a bottle." She laughed.
                        "I don't think he'll be doing much flirting till
                        his cheek heals up. He looks a sight!" She opened her nightdress
                        and showed Susan a deep blue-black mark on her left breast. "I
                        wonder if I'll get cancer from that?" said she.
                        "It'd be just my rotten luck. I've heard of
                        several cases of it lately, and my father kicked my mother there, and she
                        got cancer. Lord, how she did suffer!"
                    Susan shivered, turned her eyes away. Her blood surged with joy that she had
                        once more climbed up out of this deep, dark wallow where the masses of her
                        fellow beings weltered in darkness and drunkenness and disease—was
                        up among the favored ones who, while they could not entirely escape the
                        great ills of life, at least had the intelligence and the means to mitigate
                             them. How fortunate that few of these
                        unhappy ones had the imagination to realize their own wretchedness!
                        "I don't care what becomes of me," Clara was
                        saying. "What is there in it for me? I can have a good time only as
                        long as my looks last—and that's true of every woman,
                        ain't it? What's a woman but a body? Ain't I
                        right?"
                    "That's why I'm going to stop being a woman as
                        soon as ever I can," said Susan.
                    "Why, you're packing up!" cried Clara.
                    "Yes. My friend's well enough to be moved. We're
                        going to live uptown."
                    "Right away?"
                    "This afternoon."
                    Clara dropped into a chair and began to weep. "I'll miss
                        you something fierce!" sobbed she. "You're the
                        only friend in the world I give a damn for, or that gives a damn for me. I
                        wish to God I was like you. You don't need anybody."
                    "Oh, yes, I do, dear," cried Susan.
                    "But, I mean, you don't lean on anybody. I don't
                        mean you're hard-hearted—for you ain't.
                        You've pulled me and a dozen other girls out of the hole lots of
                        times. But you're independent. Can't you take me along? I
                        can drop that bum across the hall. I don't give a hoot for him. But
                        a girl's got to make believe she cares for somebody or
                        she'd blow her brains out."
                    "I can't take you along, but I'm going to come for
                        you as soon as I'm on my feet," said Susan.
                        "I've got to get up myself first. I've learned at
                        least that much."
                    "Oh, you'll forget all about me."
                    
                    "No," said Susan.
                    
                    And Clara knew that she would not. Moaned Clara, "I'm not
                        fit to go. I'm only a common streetwalker. You belong up there.
                        You're going back to your own. But I belong here. I wish to God I
                        was like most of the people down here, and didn't have any sense.
                        No wonder you used to drink so! I'm getting that way, too. The only
                        people that don't hit the booze hard down here are the muttonheads
                        who don't know nothing and can't learn nothing. . . . I
                        used to be contented. But somehow, being with you so much has made me
                        dissatisfied."
                    "That means you're on your way up," said Susan,
                        busy with her packing.
                    "It would, if I had sense enough. Oh, it's torment to have
                        sense enough to see, and not sense enough to do!"
                    "I'll come for you soon," said Susan.
                        "You're going up with me."
                    Clara watched her for some time in silence. "You're sure
                        you're going to win?" said she, at last.
                    "Sure," replied Susan.
                    "Oh, you can't be as sure as that."
                    "Yes, but I can," laughed she. "I'm done
                        with foolishness. I've made up my mind to get up in the
                            world—with my self-respect if possible; if
                        not, then without it. I'm going to have everything—money,
                        comfort, luxury, pleasure. Everything!" And she dropped a folded
                        skirt emphatically upon the pile she had been making, and gave a short,
                        sharp nod. "I was taught a lot of things when I was
                        little—things about being sweet and unselfish and all that.
                        They'd be fine, if the world was Heaven. But it
                        isn't."
                    "Not exactly," said Clara.
                    "Maybe they're fine, if you want to get to
                        Heaven,"  continued Susan.
                        "But I'm not trying to get to Heaven. I'm trying
                        to live on earth. I don't like the game, and I don't like
                        its rules. But—it's the only game, and I can't
                        change the rules. So I'm going to follow them—at least,
                        until I get what I want."
                    "Do you mean to say you've got any respect for
                        yourself?" said Clara. "I
                        haven't. And I don't see how any girl in our line can
                        have."
                    "I thought I hadn't," was Susan's reply,
                        "until I talked with—with someone I met the other day. If
                        you slipped and fell in the mud—or were thrown into it—you
                        wouldn't say, 'I'm dirty through and through. I
                        can never get clean again'—would you?"
                    "But that's different," objected Clara.
                    "Not a bit," declared Susan. "If you look around
                        this world, you'll see that everybody who ever moved about at all
                        has slipped and fallen in the mud—or has been pushed
                        in."
                    "Mostly pushed in."
                    "Mostly pushed in," assented Susan. "And those
                        that have good sense get up as soon as they can, and wash as much of the mud
                        off as'll come off—maybe all—and go on. The
                        fools—they worry about the mud. But not I—not any more! .
                        . . And not you, my dear—when I get you uptown."
                    Clara was now looking on Susan's departure as a dawn of good luck
                        for herself. She took a headache powder, telephoned for a carriage, and
                        helped carry down the two big packages that contained all Susan's
                        possessions worth moving. And they kissed each other good-by with smiling
                        faces. Susan did not give Clara, the loose-tongued, her new address; nor did
                        Clara, conscious of her own weakness, ask for it.
                    "Don't put yourself out about me," cried Clara  in farewell. "Get a good tight grip
                        yourself, first."
                    "That's advice I need," answered Susan.
                        "Good—by. Soon—soon!"
                    
                    The carriage had to move slowly through those narrow tenement streets, so
                        thronged were they with the people swarmed from hot little rooms into the
                        open to try to get a little air that did not threaten to burn and choke as
                        it entered the lungs. Susan's nostrils were filled with the
                        stenches of animal and vegetable decay—stenches descending in heavy
                        clouds from the open windows of the flats and from the fire escapes crowded
                        with all manner of rubbish; stenches from the rotting, brimful garbage cans;
                        stenches from the groceries and butcher shops and bakeries where the poorest
                        qualities of food were exposed to the contamination of swarms of disgusting
                        fat flies, of mangy, vermin-harassed children and cats and dogs; stenches
                        from the never washed human bodies, clad in filthy garments and drawn out of
                        shape by disease and toil. Sore eyes, scrofula, withered arm or leg, sagged
                        shoulder, hip out of joint—There, crawling along the sidewalk, was
                        the boy whose legs had been cut off by the street car; and the stumps were
                        horribly ulcered. And there at the basement window drooled and cackled the
                        fat idiot girl whose mother sacrificed everything always to dress her
                        freshly in pink. What a world!—where a few people—such a
                        very few!—lived in health and comfort and cleanliness—and
                        the millions lived in disease and squalor, ignorant, untouched of
                        civilization save to wear its cast-off clothes and to eat its castaway food
                        and to live in its dark noisome cellars!—And to toil unceasingly to
                        make for others the good things of which they had none themselves! It made
                        her heartsick—the sadder because nothing could be done about  it. Stay and help? As well stay to put out a
                        conflagration barehanded and alone.
                    As the carriage reached wider Second Avenue, the horses broke into a trot.
                        Susan drew a long breath of the purer air—then shuddered as she saw
                        the corner where the dive into which the cadet had lured her flaunted its
                        telltale awnings. Lower still her spirits sank when she was passing, a few
                        blocks further on, the music hall. There, too, she had had a chance, had let
                        hope blaze high. And she was going forward—into—the region
                        where she had been a slave to Freddie Palmer—no, to the system of
                        which he was a slave no less than she—
                    "I must be strong! I must!" Susan said to herself, and there was desperation
                        in the gleam of her eyes, in the set of her chin. "This time I will
                        fight! And I feel at last that I can."
                    But her spirits soared no more that day.
                
                
                
                    XIV
                    
                        SPERRY had chosen for "Mr. and Mrs.
                        Spenser" the second floor rear of a house on the south side of West
                        Forty-fifth Street a few doors off Sixth Avenue. It was furnished as a
                        sitting-room—elegant in red plush, with oil paintings on the walls,
                        a fringed red silk-plush dado fastened to the mantelpiece with bright
                        brass-headed tacks, elaborate imitation lace throws on the sofa and chairs,
                        and an imposing piece that might have been a cabinet organ or a pianola or a
                        roll-top desk but was in fact a comfortable folding bed. There was a marble
                        stationary washstand behind the hand-embroidered screen in the corner, near
                        one of the two windows. Through a deep clothes closet was a small but
                        satisfactory bathroom.
                    "And it's warm in winter," said Mrs. Norris, the
                        landlady, to Susan. "Don't you hate a cold
                        bathroom?"
                    Susan declared that she did.
                    "There's only one thing I hate worse," said Mrs.
                        Norris, "and that's cold coffee."
                    She had one of those large faces which look bald because the frame of hair
                        does not begin until unusually far back. At fifty, when her hair would be
                        thin, Mrs. Norris would be homely; but at thirty she was handsome in a bold,
                        strong way. Her hair was always carefully done, her good figure beautifully
                        corseted. It was said she was not married to Mr. Norris—because New
                        York likes to believe that people are living 
                        together without being married, because Mr. Norris came and went
                        irregularly, and because Mrs. Norris was so particular about her
                        toilet—and everyone knows that when a woman has the man with whom
                        she's satisfied securely fastened, she shows her content or her
                        virtuous indifference to other men—or her laziness—by
                        neglecting her hair and her hips and dressing in any old thing any which
                        way. Whatever the truth as to Mrs. Norris's domestic life, she
                        carried herself strictly and insisted upon keeping her house as respectable
                        as can reasonably be expected in a large city. That is, everyone in it was
                        quiet, was of steady and sedate habit, was backed by references. Not until
                        Sperry had thoroughly qualified as a responsible person did Mrs. Norris
                        accept his assurances as to the Spensers and consent to receive them.
                        Downtown the apartment houses that admit persons of loose character are
                        usually more expensive because that class of tenants have more and expect
                        more than ordinary working people. Uptown the custom is the reverse; to get
                        into a respectable house you must pay more. The Spensers had to pay fourteen
                        a week for their quarters—and they were getting a real bargain,
                        Mrs. Norris having a weakness for literature and art where they were
                        respectable and paid regularly.
                    "What's left of the two hundred and fifty will not last
                        long," said Spenser to Susan, when they were established and alone.
                        "But we'll have another five hundred as soon as the
                        play's done, and that'll be in less than a month.
                        We're to begin tomorrow. In less than two months the
                        play'll be on and the royalties will be coming in. I wonder how
                        much I owe the doctor and the hospital."
                    "That's settled," said Susan.
                    
                    He glanced at her with a frown. "How much was it? You had no right
                        to pay!"
                    "You couldn't have got either doctor or room without
                        payment in advance." She spoke tranquilly, with a quiet assurance
                        of manner that was new in her, the nervous and sensitive about causing
                        displeasure in others. She added, "Don't be cross, Rod.
                        You know it's only pretense."
                    "Don't you believe anybody has any decency?"
                        demanded he.
                    "It depends on what you mean by decency," replied she.
                        "But why talk of the past? Let's forget it."
                    "I would that I could!" exclaimed he.
                    She laughed at his heroics. "Put that in your play," said
                        she. "But this isn't the melodrama of the stage.
                        It's the farce comedy of life."
                    "How you have changed! Has all the sweetness, all the womanliness,
                        gone out of your character?"
                    She showed how little she was impressed. "I've learned to
                        take terrible things—really terrible things—without making
                        a fuss—or feeling like making a fuss. You can't expect me
                        to get excited over mere—staginess. They're fond of fake
                        emotions up in this part of town. But down where I've been so long
                        the real horrors come too thick and fast for there to be any time to
                        fake."
                    He continued to frown, presently came out of a deep study to say,
                        "Susie, I see I've got to have a serious talk with
                        you."
                    "Wait till you're well, my dear," said she.
                        "I'm afraid I'll not be very sympathetic with
                        your seriousness."
                    "No—today. I'm not an invalid. And our relations
                        worry me, whenever I think of them."
                    
                    He observed her as she sat with hands loosely clasped in her lap; there was
                        an inscrutable look upon her delicate face, upon the clear-cut features so
                        attractively framed by her thick dark hair, brown in some lights, black in
                        others.
                    "Well?" said she.
                    "To begin, I want you to stop rouging your lips. It's the
                        only sign of—of what you were. I'd a little rather you
                        didn't smoke. But as respectable women smoke nowadays, why I
                        don't seriously object. And when you get more clothes, get quieter
                        ones. Not that you dress loudly or in bad taste—"
                    "Thank you," murmured Susan.
                    "What did you say?"
                    "I didn't mean to interrupt. Go on."
                    "I admire the way you dress, but it makes me jealous. I want you to
                        have nice clothes for the house. I like things that show your neck and
                        suggest your form. But I don't want you attracting men's
                        eyes and their loose thoughts, in the street. . . . And I don't
                        want you to look so damnably alluring about the feet. That's your
                        best trick—and your worst. Why are you smiling—in that
                        fashion?"
                    "You talk to me as if I were your wife."
                    He gazed at her with an expression that was as affectionate as it was
                        generous—and it was most generous. "Well, you may be some
                        day—if you keep straight. And I think you will."
                    The artificial red of her lips greatly helped to make her sweetly smiling
                        face the perfection of gentle irony. "And you?" said
                        she.
                    "You know perfectly well it's different about a
                        man."
                    "I know nothing of the sort," replied she. "Among
                             certain kinds of people that is the rule.
                        But I'm not of those kinds. I'm trying to make my way in
                        the world, exactly like a man. So I've got to be free from the
                        rules that may be all very well for ladies. A woman can't fight
                        with her hands tied, any more than a man can—and you know what
                        happens to the men who allow themselves to be tied; they're poor
                        downtrodden creatures working hard at small pay for the men who fight with
                        their hands free."
                    "I've taken you out of the unprotected woman class, my
                        dear," he reminded her. "You're mine, now, and
                        you're going back where you belong."
                    "Back to the cage it's taken me so long to learn to do
                        without?" She shook her head. "No, Rod—I
                        couldn't possibly do it—not if I wanted to. . . .
                        You've got several false ideas about me. You'll have to
                        get rid of them, if we're to get along."
                    "For instance?"
                    "In the first place, don't delude yourself with the notion
                        that I'd marry you. I don't know whether the man I was
                        forced to marry is dead or whether he's got a divorce. I
                        don't care. No matter how free I was I shouldn't marry
                        you."
                    He smiled complacently. She noted it without irritation. Truly, small indeed
                        is the heat of any kind that can be got from the warmed-up ashes of a
                        burnt-out passion. She went easily on:
                    "You have nothing to offer me—neither love nor money. And a
                        woman—unless she's a poor excuse—insists on one
                        or the other. You and I fancied we loved each other for a while. We
                        don't fool ourselves in that way now. At least I don't,
                        though I believe you do imagine I'm in love with you."
                    "You wouldn't be here if you
                        weren't."
                    
                    "Put that out of your head, Rod. It'll only breed trouble.
                        I don't like to say these things to you, but you compel me to. I
                        learned long ago how foolish it is to put off unpleasant things that will
                        have to be faced in the end. The longer they're put off the worse
                        the final reckoning is. Most of my troubles have come through my being too
                        weak or good-natured—or whatever it was—to act as my good
                        sense told me. I'm not going to make that mistake any more. And
                        I'm going to start the new deal with absolute frankness with you. I
                        am not in love with you."
                    "I know you better than you know yourself," said he.
                    "For a little while after I found you again I did have a return of
                        the old feeling—or something like it. But it soon passed. I
                        couldn't love you. I know you too well."
                    He struggled hard with his temper, as his vanity lashed at it. She saw,
                        struggled with her old sensitiveness about inflicting even necessary pain
                        upon others, went on:
                    "I simply like you, Rod—and that's all.
                        We're well acquainted. You're physically attractive to
                        me—not wildly so, but enough—more than any other
                        man—probably more than most husbands are to their wives—or
                        most wives to their husbands. So as long as you treat me well and
                        don't wander off to other women, I'm more than willing to
                        stay on here."
                    "Really!" said he, in an intensely sarcastic tone.
                        "Really!"
                    "Now—keep your temper," she warned.
                        "Didn't I keep mine when you were handing me that
                        impertinent talk about how I should dress and the rest of it?
                        No—let me finish. In the second place and in conclusion,  my dear Rod, I'm not going to live
                        off you. I'll pay my half of the room. I'll pay for my own
                        clothes—and rouge for my lips. I'll buy and cook what we
                        eat in the room; you'll pay when we go to a restaurant. I believe
                        that's all."
                    "Are you quite sure?" inquired he with much satire.
                    "Yes, I think so. Except—if you don't like my
                        terms, I'm ready to leave at once."
                    "And go back to the streets, I suppose?" jeered he.
                    "If it were necessary—yes. So long as I've got my
                        youth and my health, I'll do precisely as I please. I've
                        no craving for respectability—not the slightest.
                        I—I—" She tried to speak of her birth, that
                        secret shame of which she was ashamed. She had been thinking that
                        Brent's big fine way of looking at things had cured her of this
                        bitterness. She found that it had not—as yet. So she went on,
                        "I'd prefer your friend-ship to your ill
                        will—much prefer it, as you're the only person I can look
                        to for what a man can do for a woman, and as I like you. But if I have to
                        take tyranny along with the friendship—" she looked at him
                        quietly and her tones were almost tender, almost
                        appealing—"then, it's good-by, Rod."
                    She had silenced him, for he saw in her eyes, much more gray than violet
                        though the suggestion of violet was there, that she meant precisely what she
                        said. He was astonished, almost dazed by the change in her. This woman grown
                        was not the Susie who had left him. No—and yet—
                    She had left him, hadn't she? That showed a character completely
                        hidden from him, perhaps the character he was now seeing. He
                        asked—and there was no sarcasm and a great deal of uneasiness in
                        his tone:
                    "How do you expect to make a living?"
                    
                    "I've got a place at forty dollars a week."
                    "Forty dollars a week! You!" He scowled savagely at her.
                        "There's only one thing anyone would pay you forty a week
                        for."
                    "That's what I'd have said," rejoined
                        she. "But it seems not to be true. My luck may not last, but while
                        it lasts, I'll have forty a week."
                    "I don't believe you," said he, with the angry
                        bluntness of jealousy.
                    "Then you want me to go?" inquired she, with a certain
                        melancholy but without any weakness.
                    He ignored her question. He demanded:
                    "Who's giving it to you?"
                    "Brent."
                    Spenser leaned from the bed toward her in his excitement. "Robert Brent?" he cried.
                    "Yes. I'm to have a part in one of his plays."
                    Spenser laughed harshly. "What rot! You're his
                        mistress."
                    "It wouldn't be strange for you to think I'd
                        accept that position for so little, but you must know a man of his sort
                        wouldn't have so cheap a mistress."
                    "It's simply absurd."
                    "He is to train me himself."
                    "You never told me you knew him."
                    "I don't."
                    "Who got you the job?"
                    "He saw me in Fitzalan's office the day you sent me there.
                        He asked me to call, and when I went he made me the offer."
                    "Absolute rot. What reason did he give?"
                    "He said I looked as if I had the temperament he was in search
                        of."
                    "You must take me for a fool."
                    
                    "Why should I lie to you?"
                    "God knows. Why do women lie to men all the time? For the pleasure
                        of fooling them."
                    "Oh, no. To get money, Rod—the best reason in the world, it
                        being rather hard for a woman to make money by working for it."
                    "The man's in love with you!"
                    "I wish he were," said Susan, laughing.
                        "I'd not be here, my dear—you may be sure of
                        that. And I'd not content myself with forty a week. Oh, you
                        don't know what tastes I've got! Wait till I turn myself
                        loose."
                    "Well—you can—in a few months," said
                        Spenser. Even as he had been protesting his disbelief in her story, his
                        manner toward her had been growing more respectful—a change that at
                        once hurt and amused her with its cynical suggestions, and also pleased her,
                        giving her a confidence-breeding sense of a new value in herself. Rod went
                        on, with a kind of shamefaced mingling of jest and earnest:
                    "You stick by me, Susie, old girl, and the time'll come
                        when I'll be able to give you more than Brent."
                    "I hope so," said Susan.
                    He eyed her sharply. "I feel like a fool believing such a fairy
                        story as you've been telling me. Yet I do."
                    "That's good," laughed she. "Now I can
                        stay. If you hadn't believed me, I'd have had to go. And I
                        don't want to do that—not yet."
                    His eyes flinched. "Not yet? What does that mean?"
                    "It means I'm content to stay, at present. Who can answer
                        for tomorrow?" Her eyes lit up mockingly. "For
                        instance—you. Today you think you're  going to be true to me—don't you? Yet
                        tomorrow—or as soon as you get strength and street clothes, I may
                        catch you in some restaurant telling some girl she's the one
                        you've been getting ready for."
                    He laughed, but not heartily. Sperry came, and Susan went to buy at a
                        department store a complete outfit for Rod, who still had only nightshirts.
                        As she had often bought for him in the old days, she felt she would have no
                        difficulty in fitting him nearly enough, with her accurate eye supplementing
                        the measurements she had taken. When she got back home two hours and a half
                        later, bringing her purchases in a cab, Sperry had gone and Rod was asleep.
                        She sat in the bathroom, with the gas lighted, and worked at
                        "Cavalleria" until she heard him calling. He had awakened
                        in high good-humor.
                    "That was an awful raking you gave me before Sperry came,"
                        began he. "But it did me good. A man gets so in the habit of
                        ordering women about that it becomes second nature to him. You've
                        made it clear to me that I've even less control over you than you
                        have over me. So, dear, I'm going to be humble and try to give
                        satisfaction, as servants say."
                    "You'd better," laughed Susan. "At least,
                        until you get on your feet again."
                    "You say we don't love each other," Rod went on, a
                        becoming brightness in his strong face. "Well—maybe so.
                        But—we suit each other—don't we?"
                    "That's why I want to stay," said Susan, sitting
                        on the bed and laying her hand caressingly upon his. "I could stand
                        it to go, for I've been trained to stand
                        anything—everything. But I'd hate it."
                    He put his arm round her, drew her against his breast.
                        "Aren't you happy here?" he murmured.
                    
                    "Happier than any place else in the world," replied she
                        softly.
                    After a while she got a small dinner for their two selves on the gas stove
                        she had brought with her and had set up in the bathroom. As they ate, she
                        cross-legged on the bed opposite him, they beamed contentedly at each other.
                        "Do you remember the dinner we had at the St. Nicholas in
                        Cincinnati?" asked she.
                    "It wasn't as good as this," declared he.
                        "Not nearly so well cooked. You could make a fortune as a cook. But
                        then you do everything well."
                    "Even to rouging my lips?"
                    "Oh, forget it!" laughed he. "I'm an ass.
                        There's a wonderful fascination in the contrast between the dash of
                        scarlet and the pallor of that clear, lovely skin of yours."
                    Her eyes danced. "You are getting well!" she exclaimed.
                        "I'm sorry I bought you clothes. I'll be uneasy
                        every time you're out."
                    "You can trust me. I see I've got to hustle to keep my job
                        with you. Well, thank God, your friend Brent's old enough to be
                        your father."
                    "Is he?" cried Susan. "Do you know, I never
                        thought of his age."
                    "Yes, he's forty at least—more. Are you sure he
                        isn't after you, Susie?"
                    "He warned me that if I annoyed him in that way he'd
                        discharge me."
                    "Do you like him?"
                    "I—don't—know," was
                        Susan's slow, reflective answer.
                        "I'm—afraid of him—a
                        little."
                    Both became silent. Finally Rod said, with an impatient shake of the head,
                        "Let's not think of him."
                    
                    "Let's try on your new clothes," cried Susan.
                    And when the dishes were cleared away they had a grand time trying on the
                        things she had bought. It was amazing how near she had come to fitting him.
                        "You ought to feel flattered," said she. "Only a
                        labor of love could have turned out so well."
                    He turned abruptly from admiring his new suit in the glass and caught her in
                        his arms. "You do love me—you do!" he cried.
                        "No woman would have done all you've done for me, if she
                        didn't."
                    For answer, Susan kissed him passionately; and as her body trembled with the
                        sudden upheaval of emotions long dormant or indulged only in debased,
                        hateful ways, she burst into tears. She knew, even in that moment of
                        passion, that she did not love him; but not love itself can move the heart
                        more deeply than gratitude—and her bruised heart was so grateful
                        for his words and tones and gestures of affection!
                    Wednesday afternoon, on the way to Brent's house, she glanced up at
                        the clock in the corner tower of the Grand Central Station. It lacked five
                        minutes of three. She walked slowly, timed herself so accurately that, as
                        the butler opened the door, a cathedral chime hidden somewhere in the upper
                        interior boomed the hour musically. The man took her direct to the elevator,
                        and when it stopped at the top floor, Brent himself opened the door, as
                        before. He was dismissing a short fat man whom Susan placed as a manager,
                        and a tall, slim, and most fashionably dressed woman with a beautiful
                        insincere face—anyone would have at once declared her an actress,
                        probably a star. The woman gave Susan a searching, feminine look which
                        changed swiftly to superciliousness. Both the man and the woman were loath
                        to go, evidently had not finished  what they
                        had come to say. But Brent, in his abrupt but courteous way, said:
                    "Tomorrow at four, then. As you see, my next appointment has
                        begun." And he had them in the elevator with the door closed. He
                        turned upon Susan the gaze that seemed to take in everything. "You
                        are in better spirits, I see," said he.
                    "I'm sorry to have interrupted," said she.
                        "I could have waited."
                    "But I couldn't," replied he.
                        "Some day you'll discover that your time is valuable, and
                        that to waste it is far sillier than if you were to walk along throwing your
                        money into the gutter. Time ought to be used like money—spent
                        generously but intelligently." He talked rapidly on, with his
                        manner as full of unexpressed and inexpressible intensity as the voice of
                        the violin, with his frank egotism that had no suggestion of vanity or
                        conceit. "Because I systematize my time, I'm never in a
                        hurry, never at a loss for time to give to whatever I wish. I
                        didn't refuse to keep you waiting for your sake but for my own. Now
                        the next hour belongs to you and me—and we'll forget about
                        time—as, if we were dining in a restaurant, we'd not think
                        of the bill till it was presented. What did you do with the
                        play?"
                    Susan could only look at him helplessly.
                    He laughed, handed her a cigarette, rose to light a match for her.
                        "Settle yourself comfortably," said he, "and say
                        what's in your head."
                    With hands deep in the trousers of his house suit, he paced up and down the
                        long room, the cigarette loose between his lips. Whenever she saw his front
                        face she was reassured; but whenever she saw his profile, her nerves
                        trembled—for in the profile there was an  expression of almost ferocious resolution, of tragic sadness,
                        of the sternness that spares not. The full face was kind, if keen; was
                        sympathetic—was the man as nature had made him. The profile was the
                        great man—the man his career had made. And Susan knew that the
                        profile was master.
                    "Which part did you like—Santuzza or Lola?"
                    
                    
                        "Lola," replied she.
                    He paused, looked at her quickly. Why?"
                    "Oh, I don't sympathize with the woman—or the
                        man—who's deserted. I pity, but I can't help
                        seeing it's her or his own fault. Lola explains
                        why. Wouldn't you rather laugh than cry? Santuzza
                        may have been attractive in the moments of passion, but how she must have
                        bored Turiddu the rest of the time! She was so intense, so
                        serious—so vain and selfish."
                    "Vain and selfish? That's interesting." He walked
                        up and down several times, then turned on her abruptly.
                        "Well—go on," he said. "I'm
                        waiting to hear why she was vain and selfish."
                    "Isn't it vain for a woman to think a man ought to be crazy
                        about her all the time because he once has been? Isn't it selfish
                        for her to want him to be true to her because it gives her
                        pleasure, even though she knows it doesn't give him pleasure?"
                    "Men and women are all vain and selfish in love," said
                        he.
                    "But the women are meaner than the men," replied she,
                        "because they're more ignorant and
                        narrow-minded."
                    He was regarding her with an expression that made her uneasy. "But
                        that isn't in the play—none of it," said he.
                    "Well, it ought to be," replied she. "Santuzza is the  old-fashioned
                        conventional heroine. I used to like them—until I had lived a
                        little, myself. She isn't true to life. But in Lola—"
                    "Yes—what about Lola?" he
                        demanded.
                    "Oh, she wasn't a heroine, either. She was just
                        human—taking happiness when it offered. And her gayety—and
                        her capriciousness. A man will always break away from a solemn, intense
                        woman to get that sort of sunshine."
                    "Yes—yes—go on," said Brent.
                    "And her sour, serious, solemn husband explains why wives are untrue
                        to their husbands. At least, it seems so to me."
                    He was walking up and down again. Every trace of indolence, of relaxation,
                        was gone from his gait and from his features. His mind was evidently working
                        like an engine at full speed. Suddenly he halted. "You've
                        given me a big idea," said he. "I'll throw away
                        the play I was working on. I'll do your play."
                    Susan laughed—pleased, yet a little afraid he was kinder than she
                        deserved. "What I said was only common sense—what my
                        experience has taught me."
                    "That's all that genius is, my dear," replied he.
                        "As soon as we're born, our eyes are operated on so that
                        we shall never see anything as it is. The geniuses are those who either
                        escape the operation or are reëndowed with true sight by
                        experience." He nodded approvingly at her.
                        "You're going to be a person—or, rather,
                        you're going to show you're a person. But that comes
                        later. You thought of Lola as your part?"
                    "I tried to. But I don't know anything about
                        acting—except what I've seen and the talk I've
                        heard."
                    "As I said the other day, that means you've little to
                        learn. Now—as to Lola's
                        entrance."
                    
                    "Oh, I thought of a lot of things to do—to show that she,
                        too, loved Turiddu and that she had as much right to
                        love—and to be loved—as Santuzza had.
                            Santuzza had had her chance, and had
                        failed."
                    Brent was highly amused. "You seem to forget that Lola was a married woman—and that if Santuzza didn't get a husband she'd be the
                        mother of a fatherless child."
                    Never had he seen in her face such a charm of sweet melancholy as at that
                        moment. "I suppose the way I was born and the life I've
                        led make me think less of those things than most people do,"
                        replied she. "I was talking about natural hearts—what
                        people think inside—the way they act when they have
                        courage."
                    "When they have courage," Brent repeated reflectively.
                        "But who has courage?"
                    "A great many people are compelled to have it," said
                        she.
                    "I never had it until I got enough money to be
                        independent."
                    "I never had it," said Susan, "until I had no
                        money."
                    He leaned against the big table, folded his arms on his chest, looked at her
                        with eyes that made her feel absolutely at ease with him. Said he:
                    "You have known what it was to have no
                        money—none?"
                    Susan nodded. "And no friends—no place to
                        sleep—worse off than Robinson Crusoe when the
                        waves threw him on the island. I had to—to suck my own blood to
                        keep alive."
                    "You smile as you say that," said he.
                    "If I hadn't learned to smile over such things,"
                        she answered, "I'd have been dead long ago."
                    He seated himself opposite her. He asked:
                    
                    "Why didn't you kill yourself?"
                    "I was afraid."
                    "Of the hereafter?"
                    "Oh no. Of missing the coming true of my dreams about
                        life."
                    "Love?"
                    "That—and more. Just love wouldn't satisfy me. I
                        want to see the world—to know the world—and to be
                        somebody. I want to try everything."
                    She laughed gayly—a sudden fascinating vanishing of the melancholy
                        of eyes and mouth, a sudden flashing out of young beauty.
                        "I've been down about as deep as one can go. I want to
                        explore in the other direction."
                    "Yes—yes," said Brent, absently. "You
                        must see it all."
                    He remained for some time in a profound reverie, she as unconscious of the
                        passing of time as he—for if he had his thoughts, she had his face
                        to study. Try as she would, she could not associate the idea of age with
                        him—any age. He seemed simply a grown man. And the more closely she
                        studied him the greater her awe became. He knew so much; he understood so
                        well. She could not imagine him swept away by any of the petty
                        emotions—the vanities, the jealousies, the small rages, the small
                        passions and loves that made up the petty days of the small creatures who
                        inhabit the world and call it theirs. Could he fall in love? Had he been in
                        love? Yes—he must have been in love—many
                        times—for many women must have taken trouble to please a man so
                        well worth while, and he must have passed from one woman to another as his
                        whims or his tastes changed. Could he ever care about her—as a
                        woman? Did he think her worn out as a physical woman? Or  would he realize that body is nothing by
                        itself; that unless the soul enters it, it is cold and meaningless and
                        worthless—like the electric bulb when the filament is dark and the
                        beautiful, hot, brilliant and intensely living current is not in it? Could
                        she love him? Could she ever feel equal and at ease, through and through,
                        with a man so superior?
                    "You'd better study the part of Lola—learn the lines," said he, when he had finished
                        his reflecting. "Then—this day week at the same
                        hour—we will begin. We will work all afternoon—we will
                        dine together—go to some theater where I can illustrate what I
                        mean. Beginning with next Wednesday that will be the program every day until
                        further notice."
                    "Until you see whether you can do anything with me or
                        not?"
                    "Just so. You are living with Spenser?"
                    "Yes." Susan could have wished his tone less
                        matter-of-fact.
                    "How is he getting on?"
                    "He and Sperry are doing a play for Fitzalan."
                    "Really? That's good. He has talent. If he'll
                        learn of Sperry and talk less and work more, and steadily, he'll
                        make a lot of money. You are not tied to him in any way?"
                    "No—not now that he's prospering. Except, of
                        course, that I'm fond of him."
                    He shrugged his shoulders. "Oh, everybody must have somebody.
                        You've not seen this house. I'll show it to you, as
                        we've still fifteen minutes."
                    A luxurious house it was—filled with things curious and, some of
                        them, beautiful—things gathered in excursions through Europe, Susan
                        assumed. The only absolutely simple room was his bedroom, big and bare  and so arranged that he could sleep
                        practically out of doors. She saw servants—two men besides the
                        butler, several women. But the house was a bachelor's house, with
                        not a trace of feminine influence. And evidently he cared nothing about it
                        but lived entirely in that wonderful world which so awed Susan—the
                        world he had created within himself, the world of which she had alluring
                        glimpses through his eyes, through his tones and gestures even. Small people
                        strive to make, and do make, impression of themselves by laboring to show
                        what they know and think. But the person of the larger kind makes no such
                        effort. In everything Brent said and did and wore, in all his movements,
                        gestures, expressions, there was the unmistakable hallmark of the man worth
                        while. The social life has banished simplicity from even the most savage
                        tribe. Indeed, savages, filled with superstitions, their every movement the
                        result of some notion of proper ceremonial, are the most complex of all the
                        human kind. The effort toward simplicity is not a movement back to nature,
                        for there savage and lower animal are completely enslaved by custom and
                        instinct; it is a movement upward toward the freedom of thought and action
                        of which our best intelligence has given us a conception and for which it
                        has given us a longing. Never had Susan met so simple a man; and never had
                        she seen one so far from all the silly ostentations of rudeness, of
                        unattractive dress, of eccentric or coarse speech wherewith the cheap sort
                        of man strives to proclaim himself individual and free.
                    With her instinct for recognizing the best at first sight, Susan at once
                        understood. And she was like one who has been stumbling about searching for
                        the right road, and has it suddenly shown to him. She fairly  darted along this right road. She was
                        immediately busy, noting the mistakes in her own ideas of manners and dress,
                        of good and bad taste. She realized how much she had to learn. But this did
                        not discourage her. For she realized at the same time that she could
                        learn—and his obvious belief in her as a possibility was most
                        encouraging.
                    When he bade her good-by at the front door and it closed behind her, she was
                        all at once so tired that it seemed to her she would then and there sink
                        down through sheer fatigue and fall asleep. For no physical exercise so
                        quickly and utterly exhausts as real brain exercise—thinking,
                        studying, learning with all the concentrated intensity of a thoroughbred in
                        the last quarter of the mile race.
                
                
                
                    XV
                    
                        SPENSER had time and thought for his play only. He no
                        longer tormented himself with jealousy of the abilities and income and fame
                        of Brent and the other successful writers for the stage; was not he about to
                        equal them, probably to surpass them? As a rule, none of the mean emotions
                        is able to thrive—unless it has the noxious vapors from
                        disappointment and failure to feed upon. Spenser, in spirits and in hope
                        again, was content with himself. Jealousy of Brent about Susan had been born
                        of dissatisfaction with himself as a failure and envy of Brent as a success;
                        it died with that dissatisfaction and that envy. His vanity assured him that
                        while there might be—possibly—ways in which he was not
                        without rivals, certainly where women were concerned he simply could not be
                        equaled; the woman he wanted he could have—and he could hold her as
                        long as he wished. The idea that Susan would give a sentimental thought to a
                        man "old enough to be her father"—Brent was
                        forty-one—was too preposterous to present itself to his mind. She
                        loved the handsome, fascinating, youthful Roderick Spenser; she would soon
                        be crazy about him.
                    Rarely does it occur to a man to wonder what a woman is thinking. During
                        courtship very young men attribute intellect and qualities of mystery and
                        awe to the woman they love. But after men get an insight into the mind of
                        woman and discover how trivial are the matters that of necessity usually
                        engage it, they become skeptical about feminine mentality; they would  as soon think of speculating on what
                        profundities fill the brain of the kitten playing with a ball as of seeking
                        a solution of the mystery behind a woman's fits of abstraction.
                        However, there was in Susan's face, especially in her eyes, an
                        expression so unusual, so arresting that Spenser, self-centered and
                        convinced of woman's intellectual deficiency though he was, did
                        sometimes inquire what she was thinking about. He asked this question at
                        breakfast the morning after that second visit to Brent.
                    "Was I thinking?" she countered.
                    "You certainly were not listening. You haven't a notion
                        what I was talking about."
                    "About your play."
                    "Of course. You know I talk nothing else," laughed he.
                        "I must bore you horribly."
                    "No, indeed," protested she.
                    "No, I suppose not. You're not bored because you
                        don't listen."
                    He was cheerful about it. He talked merely to arrange his thoughts, not
                        because he expected Susan to understand matters far above one whom nature
                        had fashioned and experience had trained to minister satisfyingly to the
                        physical and sentimental needs of man. He assumed that she was as worshipful
                        before his intellect as in the old days. He would have been even more amazed
                        than enraged had he known that she regarded his play as mediocre claptrap,
                        false to life, fit only for the unthinking, sloppily sentimental crowd that
                        could not see the truth about even their own lives, their own thoughts and
                        actions.
                    "There you go again!" cried he, a few minutes later.
                        "What are you thinking about? I forgot to ask how
                        you got on with Brent. Poor chap—he's had several  failures in the past year. He must be
                        horribly cut up. They say he's written out. What does he think
                        he's trying to get at with you?"
                    "Acting, as I told you," replied Susan. She felt ashamed
                        for him, making this pitiable exhibition of patronizing a great man.
                    "Sperry tells me he has had that twist in his brain for a long
                        time—that he has tried out a dozen girls or more—drops
                        them after a few weeks or months. He has a regular system about
                        it—runs away abroad, stops the pay after a month or
                        so."
                    "Well, the forty a week's clear gain while it
                        lasts," said Susan. She tried to speak lightly. But she felt hurt
                        and uncomfortable. There had crept into her mind one of those disagreeable
                        ideas that skurry into some dusky corner to hide, and reappear from time to
                        time making every fit of the blues so much the sadder and aggravating
                        despondency toward despair.
                    "Oh, I didn't mean to suggest that you
                        wouldn't succeed," Spenser hastened to apologize with more
                        or less real kindliness. "Sperry says Brent has some good ideas
                        about acting. So, you'll learn something—maybe enough to
                        enable me to put you in a good position—if Brent gets tired and if
                        you still want to be independent, as you call it."
                    "I hope so," said Susan absently.
                    Spenser was no more absorbed in his career than she in hers; only, she
                        realized how useless it would be to try to talk it to him—that he
                        would not give her so much as ears in an attitude of polite attention. If he
                        could have looked into her head that morning and seen what thoughts were
                        distracting her from hearing about the great play, he would have been more
                        amused and disgusted than ever with feminine frivolity of mind and  incapacity in serious matters. For, it so
                        happened that at the moment Susan was concentrating on a new dress. He would
                        have laughed in the face of anyone saying to him that this new dress was for
                        Susan in the pursuit of her scheme of life quite as weighty a matter, quite
                        as worthy of the most careful attention, as was his play for him. Yet that
                        would have been the literal truth. Primarily man's appeal is to the
                        ear, woman's to the eye—the reason, by the way, why the
                        theater—preëminently the place to see—tends to be dominated by woman.
                    Susan had made up her mind not only that she would rapidly improve herself in
                        every way, but also how she would go about the improving. She saw that, for
                        a woman at least, dress is as much the prime essential as an arresting show
                        window for a dealer in articles that display well. She knew she was far from
                        the goal of which she dreamed-the position where she would no longer be a
                        woman primarily but a personage. Dress would not merely increase her
                        physical attractiveness; it would achieve the far more important end of
                        gaining her a large measure of consideration. She felt that Brent, even
                        Brent, dealer in actualities and not to be fooled by pretenses, would in
                        spite of himself change his opinion of her if she went to him dressed less
                        like a middle class working girl, more like the woman of the upper classes.
                        At best, using all the advantages she had, she felt there was small enough
                        chance of her holding his interest; for she could not make herself believe
                        that he was not deceiving himself about her. However, to strengthen herself
                        in every way with him was obviously the wisest effort she could make. So,
                        she must have a new dress for the next meeting, one which would make him
                        better pleased to take her out  to dinner.
                        True, if she came in rags, he would not be disturbed—for he had
                        nothing of the snob in him. But at the same time, if she came dressed like a
                        woman of his own class, he would be impressed. "He's a
                        man, if he is a genius," reasoned she.
                    Vital though the matter was, she calculated that she did not dare spend more
                        than twenty-five dollars on this toilet. She must put by some of her forty a
                        week; Brent might give her up at any time, and she must not be in the
                        position of having to choose immediately between submitting to the slavery
                        of the kept woman as Spenser's dependent and submitting to the
                        costly and dangerous and repulsive freedom of the woman of the streets.
                        Thus, to lay out twenty-five dollars on a single costume was a wild
                        extravagance. She thought it over from every point of view; she decided that
                        she must take the risk.
                    Late in the afternoon she walked for an hour in Fifth Avenue. After some
                        hesitation she ventured into the waiting- and dressing-rooms of several
                        fashionable hotels. She was in search of ideas for the dress, which must be
                        in the prevailing fashion. She had far too good sense and good taste to
                        attempt to be wholly original in dress; she knew that the woman who
                        understands her business does not try to create a fashion but uses the
                        changing and capricious fashion as the means to express a constant and
                        consistent style of her own. She appreciated her limitations in such
                        matters—how far she as yet was from the knowledge necessary to
                        forming a permanent and self-expressive style. She was prepared to be most
                        cautious in giving play to an individual taste so imperfectly educated as
                        hers had necessarily been.
                    She felt that she had the natural instinct for the  best and could recognize it on sight—an instinct
                        without which no one can go a step forward in any of the arts. She had long
                        since learned to discriminate among the vast masses of offering, most of
                        them tasteless or commonplace, to select the rare and few things that have
                        merit. Thus, she had always stood out in the tawdrily or drearily or fussily
                        dressed throngs, had been a pleasure to the eyes even of those who did not
                        know why they were pleased. On that momentous day, she finally saw a woman
                        dressed in admirable taste who was wearing a costume simple enough for her
                        to venture to think of copying the main points. She walked several blocks a
                        few yards behind this woman, then hurried ahead of her, turned and walked
                        toward her to inspect the front of the dress. She repeated this several
                        times between the St. Regis and Sherry's. The woman soon realized,
                        as women always do, what the girl in the shirtwaist and short skirt was
                        about. But she happened to be a good-natured person, and smiled pleasantly
                        at Susan, and got in return a smile she probably did not soon forget.
                    The next morning Susan went shopping. She had it in mind to get the materials
                        for a costume of a certain delicate shade of violet. A dress of that shade,
                        and a big hat trimmed in tulle to match or to harmonize, with a bunch of
                        silk violets fastened in the tulle in a certain way.
                    Susan knew she had good looks, knew what was becoming to her darkly and
                        softly fringed violet eyes, pallid skin, to her rather tall figure, slender,
                        not voluptuous yet suggesting voluptuousness. She could see herself in that
                        violet costume. But when she began to look at materials she hesitated. The
                        violet would be beautiful; but it was not a wise investment for a girl  with few clothes, with but one best dress.
                        She did not give it up definitely, however, until she came upon a
                        sixteen-yard remnant of soft gray China crêpe. Gray was a really serviceable
                        color for the best dress of a girl of small means. And this remnant,
                        certainly enough for a dress, could be had for ten dollars, where violet
                        China crêpe of the shade she wanted would cost her a dollar a yard. She took
                        the remnant.
                    She went to the millinery department and bought a large hat frame. It was of
                        a good shape and she saw how it could be bent to suit her face. She paid
                        fifty cents for this, and two dollars and seventy cents for four yards of
                        gray tulle. She found that silk flowers were beyond her means; so she took a
                        bunch of present-able looking violets of the cheaper kind at two dollars and
                        a half. She happened to pass a counter whereon were displayed bargains in
                        big buckles and similar odds and ends of steel and enamel. She fairly
                        pounced upon a handsome gray buckle with violet enamel, which cost but
                        eighty-nine cents. For a pair of gray suède ties she paid two dollars; for a
                        pair of gray silk stockings, ninety cents. These matters, with some gray
                        silk net for the collar, gray silk for a belt, linings and the like, made
                        her total bill twenty-three dollars and sixty-seven cents. She returned home
                        content and studied "Cavalleria" until her purchases
                        arrived.
                    Spenser was out now, was working all day and in the evenings at
                        Sperry's office high up in the Times Building. So, Susan had
                        freedom for her dressmaking operations. To get them off her mind that she
                        might work uninterruptedly at learning Lola's
                        part in "Cavalleria," she toiled all Saturday, far into
                        Sunday morning, was astir before Spenser waked, finished the dress soon
                        after breakfast and the hat by the middle of the  afternoon. When Spenser returned from Sperry's office
                        to take her to dinner, she was arrayed. For the first time he saw her in
                        fashionable attire and it was really fashionable, for despite all her
                        disadvantages she, who had real and rare capacity for learning, had educated
                        herself well in the chief business of woman the man-catcher in her years in
                        New York.
                    He stood rooted to the threshold. It would have justified a vanity less
                        vigorous than Susan or any other normal human being possessed, to excite
                        such a look as was in his eyes. He drew a long breath by way of breaking the
                        spell over speech.
                    "You are beautiful!" he exclaimed.
                    And his eyes traveled from the bewitching hat, set upon her head coquettishly
                        yet without audacity, to the soft crêpe dress, its round collar showing her
                        perfect throat, its graceful lines subtly revealing her alluring figure, to
                        the feet that men always admired, whatever else of beauty or charm they
                        might fail to realize.
                    "How you have grown!" he ejaculated. Then, "How
                        did you do it?"
                    "By all but breaking myself."
                    "It's worth whatever it cost. If I had a dress suit,
                        we'd go to Sherry's or the Waldorf. I'm willing
                        to go, without the dress suit."
                    "No. I've got everything ready for dinner at
                        home."
                    "Then, why on earth did you dress? To give me a treat?"
                    "Oh, I hate to go out in a dress I've never worn. And a
                        woman has to wear a hat a good many times before she knows
                        how."
                    "What a lot of fuss you women do make about clothes."
                    "You seem to like it, all the same."
                    
                    "Of course. But it's a trifle."
                    "It has got many women a good provider for life. And not paying
                        attention to dress or not knowing how has made most of the old maids. Are
                        those things trifles?"
                    Spenser laughed and shifted his ground without any sense of having been
                        pressed to do so. "Men are fools where women are
                        concerned."
                    "Or women are wise where men are concerned."
                    "I guess they do know their business—some of
                        them," he confessed. "Still, it's a silly
                        business, you must admit."
                    "Nothing is silly that's successful," said
                        Susan.
                    "Depends on what you mean by success," argued he.
                    "Success is getting what you want."
                    "Provided one wants what's worth while," said
                        he.
                    "And what's worth while?" rejoined she.
                        "Why, whatever one happens to want."
                    To avoid any possible mischance to the grande toilette he
                        served the dinner and did the dangerous part of the clearing up. They went
                        to the theater, Rod enjoying even more than she the very considerable
                        admiration she got. When she was putting the dress away carefully that
                        night, Rod inquired when he was to be treated again.
                    "Oh—I don't know," replied she.
                        "Not soon."
                    She was too wise to tell him that the dress would not be worn again until
                        Brent was to see it. The hat she took out of the closet from time to time
                        and experimented with it, reshaping the brim, studying the different effects
                        of different angles. It delighted Spenser to catch her at this
                        "foolishness"; he felt so superior, and with his incurable
                        delusion of the shallow that dress is an end, not merely a means, he felt
                        more confident  than ever of being able to
                        hold her when he should have the money to buy her what her frivolous and
                        feminine nature evidently craved beyond all else in the world.
                        But—
                    When he bought a ready-to-wear evening suit, he made more stir about it than
                        had Susan about her costume—this, when dress to him was altogether
                        an end in itself and not a shrewd and useful means. He spent more time in
                        admiring himself in it before the mirror, and looked at it, and at himself
                        in it, with far more admiration and no criticism at all. Susan noted
                        this—and after the manner of women who are wise or
                        in-different—or both—she made no comment.
                    At the studio floor of Brent's house the door of the elevator was
                        opened for Susan by a small young man with a notably large head, bald and
                        bulging. His big smooth face had the expression of extreme amiability that
                        usually goes with weakness and timidity. "I am Mr. Brent's
                        secretary, Mr. Garvey," he explained. And Susan—made as
                        accurate as quick in her judgments of character by the opportunities and the
                        necessities of her experience—saw that she had before her one of
                        those nice feeble folk who either get the shelter of some strong personality
                        as a bird hides from the storm in the thick branches of a great tree or are
                        tossed and torn and ruined by life and exist miserably until rescued by
                        death. She knew the type well; it had been the dominant type in her
                        surroundings ever since she left Sutherland. Indeed, is it not the dominant
                        type in the whole ill-equipped, sore-tried human race? And does it not
                        usually fail of recognition because so many of us who are in fact weak,
                        look—and feel—strong because we are sheltered by inherited
                        money or by powerful  friends or relatives or
                        by chance lodgment in a nook unvisited of the high winds of life in the
                        open? Susan liked Garvey at once; they exchanged smiles and were
                        friends.
                    She glanced round the room. At the huge open window Brent, his back to her,
                        was talking earnestly to a big hatchet-faced man with a black beard. Even as
                        Susan glanced Brent closed the interview; with an emphatic gesture of fist
                        into palm he exclaimed, "And that's final.
                        Good-by." The two men came toward her, both bowed, the
                        hatchet-faced man entered the elevator and was gone. Brent extended his hand
                        with a smile.
                    "You evidently didn't come to work today," said he
                        with a careless, fleeting glance at the grande toilette.
                        "But we are prepared against such tricks. Garvey, take her down to
                        the rear dressing-room and have the maid lay her out a simple
                        costume." To Susan, "Be as quick as you can." And
                        he seated himself at his desk and was reading and signing letters.
                    Susan, crestfallen, followed Garvey down the stairway. She had confidently
                        expected that he would show some appreciation of her toilette. She knew she
                        had never in her life looked so well. In the long glass in the
                        dressing-room, while Garvey was gone to send the maid, she inspected herself
                        again. Yes—never anything like so well. And Brent had noted her
                        appearance only to condemn it. She was always telling herself that she
                        wished him to regard her as a working woman, a pupil in stagecraft. But now
                        that she had proof that he did so regard her, she was depressed, resentful.
                        However, this did not last long. While she was changing to linen skirt and
                        shirtwaist, she began to laugh at herself. How absurd she had been, thinking
                        to impress  this man who had known so many
                        beautiful women, who must have been satiated long ago with
                        beauty—she thinking to create a sensation in such a man, with a
                        simple little costume of her own crude devising. She reappeared in the
                        studio, laughter in her eyes and upon her lips. Brent apparently did not
                        glance at her; yet he said, "What's amusing
                        you?"
                    She confessed all, on one of her frequent impulses natures unable to exercise
                        self-restraint and of strong natures, indifferent to petty criticism and
                        misunderstanding, and absent from vain mediocrity, which always has
                        itself—that is, appearances—on its mind. She described in
                        amusing detail how she had planned and got together the costume—how
                        foolish his reception of it had made her feel. "I've no
                        doubt you guessed what was in my head," concluded she.
                        "You see everything."
                    "I did notice that you were looking unusually well, and that you
                        felt considerably set up over it," said he. "But why not?
                        Vanity's an excellent thing. Like everything else it's got
                        to be used, not misused. It can help us to learn instead of
                        preventing."
                    "I had an excuse for dressing up," she reminded him.
                        "You said we were to dine together. I thought you wouldn't
                        want there to be too much contrast between us. Next time I'll be
                        more sensible."
                    "Dress as you like—for the present," said he.
                        "You can always change here. Later on dress will be one of the main
                        things, of course. But not now. Have you learned the part?"
                    And they began. She saw at the far end of the room a platform about the
                        height of a stage. He explained that Garvey, with the book of the play,
                        would  take the other parts in Lola's scenes, and sent them both to the stage.
                        "Don't be nervous," Garvey said to her in an
                        undertone. "He doesn't expect anything of you. This is
                        simply to get started." But she could not suppress the trembling in
                        her legs and arms, the hysterical contractions of her throat. However, she
                        did contrive to go through the part—Garvey prompting. She knew she
                        was ridiculous; she could not carry out a single one of the ideas of
                        "business" which had come to her as she studied; she was
                        awkward, inarticulate, panic-stricken.
                    "Rotten!" exclaimed Brent, when she had finished.
                        "Couldn't be worse—therefore, couldn't
                        be better."
                    She dropped to a chair and sobbed hysterically.
                    "That's right—cry it out," said Brent.
                        "Leave us alone, Garvey."
                    Brent walked up and down smoking until she lifted her head and glanced at him
                        with a pathetic smile. "Take a cigarette," he suggested.
                        "We'll talk it over. Now, we've got something to
                        talk about."
                    She found relief from her embarrassment in the cigarette. "You can
                        laugh at me now," she said. "I shan't mind. In
                        fact, I didn't mind, though I thought I did. If I had, I'd
                        not have let you see me cry."
                    "Don't think I'm discouraged," said
                        Brent. "The reverse. You showed that you have nerve—a very
                        different matter from impudence. Impudence fails when it's most
                        needed. Nerve makes one hang on, regardless. In such a panic as yours was,
                        the average girl would have funked absolutely. You stuck it out. Now, you
                        and I will try Lola's first entrance. No,
                        don't throw away your cigarette. Lola might well
                        come in smoking a cigarette."
                    She did better. What Burlingham had once thoroughly  drilled into her now stood her in good stead, and
                        Brent's sympathy and enthusiasm gave her the stimulating sense that
                        he and she were working together. They spent the afternoon on the one
                            thing—Lola coming on, singing her gay song,
                        her halt at sight of Santuzza and Turiddu, her look at Santuzza, at Turiddu, her greeting for each. They tried it twenty different
                        ways. They discussed what would have been in the minds of all three. They
                        built up "business" for Lola, and for
                        the two others to increase the significance of Lola's actions.
                    "As I've already told you," said he,
                        "anyone with a voice and a movable body can learn to act.
                        There's no question about your becoming a good actress. But
                        it'll be some time before I can tell whether you can be what I
                        hope-an actress who shows no sign that she's acting."
                    Susan showed the alarm she felt. "I'm afraid
                        you'll find at the end that you've been wasting your
                        time," said she.
                    "Put it straight out of your head," replied he. "I
                        never waste time. To live is to learn. Already you've given me a
                        new play—don't forget that. In a month I'll have
                        it ready for us to use. Besides, in teaching you I teach myself.
                        Hungry?"
                    "No—that is, yes. I hadn't thought of it, but
                        I'm starved."
                    "This sort of thing gives one an appetite like a field
                        hand." He accompanied her to the door of the rear dressing-room on
                        the floor below. "Go down to the reception room when
                        you're ready," said he, as he left her to go on to his own
                        suite to change his clothes. "I'll be there."
                    The maid came immediately, drew a bath for her,  afterward helped her to dress. It was Susan's first experience
                        with a maid, her first realization how much time and trouble one saves
                        oneself if free from the routine, menial things. And then and there a maid
                        was set down upon her secret list of the luxurious comforts to which she
                        would treat herself—when? The craving for luxury
                        is always a part, usually a powerful part, of an ambitious temperament.
                        Ambition is simply a variously manifested and variously directed impulse
                        toward improvement—a discomfort so keen that it compels effort to
                        change to a position less uncomfortable. There had never been a time when
                        luxury had not attracted her. At the slightest opportunity she had always
                        pushed out for luxuries—for better food, better clothing, more
                        agreeable surroundings. Even in her worst hours of discouragement she had
                        not really relaxed in the struggle against rags and dirt. And when moral
                        horror had been blunted by custom and drink, physical horror had remained
                        acute. For, human nature being a development upward through the physical to
                        the spiritual, when a process of degeneration sets in, the topmost layers,
                        the spiritual, wear away first—then those in which the spiritual is
                        a larger ingredient than the material—then those in which the
                        material is the larger—and last of all those that are purely
                        material. As life educated her, as her intelligence and her knowledge grew,
                        her appreciation of luxury had grown apace—and her desire for it.
                        With most human beings, the imagination is a heavy bird of feeble wing; it
                        flies low, seeing only the things of the earth. When they describe heaven,
                        it has houses of marble and streets of gold. Their pretense to sight of
                        higher things is either sheer pretense or sight at second hand. Susan was of
                        the few whose fancy can  soar. She saw the
                        earthy things; she saw the things of the upper regions also. And she saw the
                        lower region from the altitudes of the higher—and in their
                        perspective.
                    As she and Brent stood together on the sidewalk before his house, about to
                        enter his big limousine, his smile told her that he had read her
                        thought—her desire for such an automobile as her very own.
                        "I can't help it," said she.
                        "It's my nature to want these things."
                    "And to want them intelligently," said he.
                        "Everybody wants, but only the few want intelligently—and
                        they get. The three worst things in the world are sickness, poverty and
                        obscurity. Your splendid health safeguards you against sickness. Your looks
                        and your brains can carry you far away from the other two. Your one danger
                        is of yielding to the temptation to become the wife or the mistress of some
                        rich man. The prospect of several years of heart-breaking hard work
                        isn't wildly attractive at twenty-two."
                    "You don't know me," said Susan—but the
                        boast was uttered under her breath.
                    The auto rushed up to Delmonico's entrance, came to a halt abruptly
                        yet gently. The attentiveness of the personnel, the staring and whispering
                        of the people in the palm room showed how well known Brent was. There were
                        several women—handsome women of what is called the New York type,
                        though it certainly does not represent the average New York woman, who is
                        poorly dressed in flimsy ready-made clothes and has the mottled skin that
                        indicates bad food and too little sleep. These handsome women were dressed
                        beautifully as well as expensively, in models got in—not
                        from—Paris. One of them smiled sweetly at Brent, who responded, so
                        Susan thought, rather formally. She felt 
                        dowdy in her home-made dress. All her pride in it vanished; she saw only its
                        defects. And the gracefully careless manner of these women—the
                        manners of those who feel sure of themselves—made her feel
                        "green" and out of place. She was disgusted with the folly
                        that had caused her to thrill with pleasure when his order to his chauffeur
                        at his door told her she was actually to be taken to one of the restaurants
                        in which she had wished to exhibit herself with him. She heartily wished she
                        had insisted on going where she would have been as well dressed and as much
                        at home as anyone there.
                    She lifted her eyes, to distract her mind from these depressing sensations.
                        Brent was looking at her with that amused, mocking yet sympathetic
                        expression which was most characteristic of him. She blushed furiously.
                    He laughed. "No, I'm not ashamed of your home-made
                        dress," said he. "I don't care what is thought of
                        me by people who don't give me any money. And, anyhow, you are
                        easily the most unusual looking and the most tastefully dressed woman here.
                        The rest of these women are doomed for life to commonplace obscurity.
                        You—
                    "We'll see your name in letters of fire on the Broadway
                        temples of fame."
                    "I know you're half laughing at me," said Susan.
                        "But I feel a little better."
                    "Then I'm accomplishing my object. Let's not think
                        about ourselves. That makes life narrow. Let's keep the thoughts on
                        our work—on the big splendid dreams that come to us and invite us
                        to labor and to dare."
                    And as they lingered over the satisfactory dinner he had ordered, they talked
                        of acting—of the different rôles of "Cavalleria"
                        as types of fundamental instincts  and
                        actions—of how best to express those meanings—how to fill
                        out the skeletons of the dramatist into personalities actual and vivid.
                        Susan forgot where she was, forgot to be reserved with him. In her and
                        Rod's happiest days she had never been free from the constraint of
                        his and her own sense of his great superiority. With Brent, such trifles of
                        the petty personal disappeared. And she talked more naturally than she had
                        since a girl at her uncle's at Sutherland. She was amazed by the
                        fountain that had suddenly gushed forth in her mind at the conjuring of
                        Brent's sympathy. She did not recognize herself in this person so
                        open to ideas, so eager to learn, so clear in the expression of her
                        thoughts. Not since the Burlingham days had she spent so long a time with a
                        man in absolute unconsciousness of sex.
                    They were interrupted by the intrusion of a fashionable young man with the
                        expression of assurance which comes from the possession of wealth and the
                        knowledge that money will buy practically everything and everybody. Brent
                        received him so coldly that, after a smooth sentence or two, he took himself
                        off stammering and in confusion. "I suppose," said Brent
                        when he was gone, "that young ass hoped I would introduce him to
                        you and invite him to sit. But you'll be tempted often enough in
                        the next few years by rich men without my helping to put temptation in your
                        way."
                    "I've never been troubled thus far," laughed
                        Susan.
                    "But you will, now. You have developed to the point where everyone
                        will soon be seeing what it took expert eyes to see
                        heretofore."
                    "If I am tempted," said Susan, "do you think
                        I'll be able to resist?"
                    
                    "I don't know," confessed Brent. "You
                        have a strong sense of honesty, and that'll keep you at work with
                        me for a while. Then—
                    "If you have it in you to be great, you'll go on. If
                        you're merely the ordinary woman, a little more intelligent,
                        you'll probably—sell out. All the advice I have to offer
                        is, don't sell cheap. As you're not hampered by
                        respectability or by inexperience, you needn't." He
                        reflected a moment, then added, "And if you ever do decide that you
                        don't care to go on with a career, tell me frankly. I may be able
                        to help you in the other direction."
                    "Thank you," said Susan, her strange eyes fixed upon
                        him.
                    "Why do you put so much gratitude in your tone and in your
                        eyes?" asked he.
                    "I didn't put it there," she answered.
                        "It—just came. And I was grateful because—well,
                        I'm human, you know, and it was good to
                        feel—that—that—"
                    "Go on," said he, as she hesitated.
                    "I'm afraid you'll misunderstand."
                    "What does it matter, if I do?"
                    "Well—you've acted toward me as if I were a mere
                        machine that you were experimenting with."
                    "And so you are."
                    "I understand that. But when you offered to help me, if I happened
                        to want to do something different from what you want me to do, it made me
                        feel that you thought of me as a human being, too."
                    The expression of his unseeing eyes puzzled her. She became much embarrassed
                        when he said, "Are you dissatisfied with Spenser? Do you want to
                        change lovers? Are you revolving me as a possibility?"
                    "I haven't forgotten what you said," she
                        protested.
                    
                    "But a few words from me wouldn't change you from a woman
                        into a sexless ambition."
                    An expression of wistful sadness crept into the violet-gray eyes, in contrast
                        to the bravely smiling lips. She was thinking of her birth that had
                        condemned her to that farmer Ferguson, full as much as of the life of the
                        streets, when she said:
                    "I know that a man like you wouldn't care for a woman of my
                        sort."
                    "If I were you," said he gently, "I'd not
                        say those things about myself. Saying them encourages you to think them. And
                        thinking them gives you a false point of view. You must learn to appreciate
                        that you're not a sheltered woman, with reputation for virtue as
                        your one asset, the thing that'll enable you to get some man to
                        undertake your support. You are dealing with the world as a man deals with
                        it. You must demand and insist that the world deal with you on that
                        basis."
                    There came a wonderful look of courage and hope into the eyes of
                        Lorella's daughter.
                    "And the world will," he went on. "At least, the
                        only part of it that's important to you—or really
                        important in any way. The matter of your virtue or lack of it is of no more
                        importance than is my virtue or lack of it."
                    "Do you really believe that way?" asked
                        Susan, earnestly.
                    "It doesn't in the least matter whether I do or
                        not," laughed he. "Don't bother about what I
                        think—what anyone thinks—of you. The point here, as
                        always, is that you believe it, yourself. There's no reason why a
                        woman who is making a career should not be virtuous. She will probably not
                        get far if she isn't more or less so. Dissipation doesn't
                        help man or woman, especially  the ruinous
                        dissipation of license in passion. On the other hand, no woman can ever hope
                        to make a career who persists in narrowing and cheapening herself with the
                        notion that her virtue is her all. She'll not amount to much as a
                        worker in the fields of action."
                    Susan reflected, sighed. "It's very, very hard to get rid
                        of one's sex."
                    "It's impossible," declared he.
                        "Don't try. But don't let it worry you,
                        either."
                    "Everyone can't be as strong as you are—so
                        absorbed in a career that they care for nothing else."
                    This amused him. With forearms on the edge of the table he turned his
                        cigarette slowly round between his fingers, watching the smoke curl up from
                        it. She observed that there was more than a light sprinkle of gray in his
                        thick, carefully brushed hair. She was filled with curiosity as to the
                        thoughts just then in that marvelous brain of his; nor did it lessen her
                        curiosity to know that never would those thoughts be revealed to her. What
                        women had he loved? What women had loved him? What follies had he committed?
                        From how many sources he must have gathered his knowledge of human
                        nature—of woman nature! And no doubt he was still gathering. What
                        woman was it now?
                    When he lifted his glance from the cigarette, it was to call the waiter and
                        get the bill. "I've a supper engagement," he
                        said, "and it's nearly eleven
                        o'clock."
                    "Eleven o'clock!" she exclaimed.
                    "Times does fly—doesn't it?—when a man
                        and a woman, each an unexplored mystery to the other, are dining alone and
                        talking about themselves."
                    "It was my fault," said Susan.
                    His quizzical eyes looked into hers—uncomfortably far.
                    
                    She flushed. "You make me feel guiltier than I am," she
                        protested, under cover of laughing glance and tone of raillery.
                    "Guilty? Of what?"
                    "You think I've been trying to—to
                        'encourage' you," replied she frankly.
                    "And why shouldn't you, if you feel so inclined?"
                        laughed he. "That doesn't compel me to
                        be—encouraged."
                    "Honestly I haven't," said she, the contents of
                        seriousness still in the gay wrapper of raillery. "At least not any
                        more than—"
                    "You know, a woman feels bound to 'encourage' a
                        man who piques her by seeming—difficult."
                    "Naturally, you'd not have objected to baptizing the new
                        hat and dress with my heart's blood." She could not have
                        helped laughing with him. "Unfortunately for you—or rather
                        for the new toilette—my poor heart was bled dry long, long ago.
                        I'm a busy man, too—busy and a little tired."
                    "I deserve it all," said she. "I've
                        brought it on myself. And I'm not a bit sorry I started the
                        subject. I've found out you're quite human—and
                        that'll help me to work better."
                    They separated with the smiling faces of those who have added an evening
                        altogether pleasant to memory's store of the past's happy
                        hours—that roomy store-house which is all too empty even where the
                        life has been what is counted happy. He insisted on sending her home in his
                        auto, himself taking a taxi to the Players' where the supper was
                        given. The moment she was alone for the short ride home, her gayety
                        evaporated like a delicious but unstable perfume.
                    Why? Perhaps it was the sight of the girls on the  stroll. Had she really been one of them?—and only a
                        few days ago? Impossible! Not she—not the real self . . . and
                        perhaps she would be back there with them before long. No—never,
                        never, in any circum-stances! . . . She had said, "Never!"
                        the first time she escaped from the tenements, yet she had gone back . . .
                        were any of those girls strolling along—were, again, any of them
                        Freddie Palmer's? At the thought she shivered and quailed. She had
                        not thought of him, except casually, in many months. What if he should see
                        her, should still feel vengeful—he who never forgot or
                        forgave—who would dare anything! And she would be defenseless
                        against him. . . . She remembered what she had last read about him in the
                        newspaper. He had risen in the world, was no longer in the criminal class
                        apparently, had moved to the class of semi-criminal wholly respectable
                        contractor-politician. No, he had long since forgotten her, vindictive
                        Italian though he was.
                    The auto set her down at home. Her tremors about Freddie departed; but the
                        depression remained. She felt physically as if she had been sitting all
                        evening in a stuffy room with a dull company after a heavy, badly selected
                        dinner. She fell easy prey to one of those fits of the blues to which all
                        imaginative young people are at least occasional victims, and by which those
                        cursed and hampered with the optimistic temperament are haunted and harassed
                        and all but or quite undone. She had a sense of failure, of having made a
                        bad impression. She feared he, recalling and reinspecting what she had said,
                        would get the idea that she was not in earnest, was merely looking for a
                        lover—for a chance to lead a life of luxurious irresponsibility.
                        Would it not be natural for him, who knew women well,  to assume from her mistakenly candid remarks, that she was
                        like the rest of the women, both the respectable and the free? Why should he
                        believe in her, when she did not altogether believe in herself but suspected
                        herself of a secret hankering after something more immediate, more easy and
                        more secure than the stage career? The longer she thought of it the clearer
                        it seemed to her to be that she had once more fallen victim to too much
                        hope, too much optimism, too much and too ready belief in her
                        fellow-beings—she who had suffered so much from these follies, and
                        had tried so hard to school herself against them.
                    She fought this mood of depression—fought alone, for Spenser did not
                        notice and she would not annoy him. She slept little that night; she felt
                        that she could not hope for peace until she had seen Brent again.
                
                
                
                    XVI
                    
                        TOWARD half-past ten the next day, a few minutes after Rod
                        left for the theater, she was in the bathroom cleaning the coffee machine.
                        There came a knock at the door of the sitting-room bedroom. Into such
                        disorder had her mood of depression worried her nerves that she dropped the
                        coffee machine into the washbowl and jumped as if she were seeing a ghost.
                        Several dire calamities took vague shape in her mind, then the image of
                        Freddie Palmer, smiling sweetly, cruelly. She wavered only a moment, went to
                        the door, and after a brief hesitation that still further depressed her
                        about herself she opened it. The maid—a good-natured sloven who had
                        become devoted to Susan because she gave her liberal fees and made her no
                        extra work—was standing there, in an attitude of suppressed
                        excitement. Susan laughed, for this maid was a born agitator, a person who
                        is always trying to find a thrill or to put a thrill into the most trivial
                        event.
                    "What is it now, Annie?" Susan asked.
                    "Mr. Spenser—he's gone, hasn't
                        he?"
                    "Yes—a quarter of an hour ago."
                    Annie drew a breath of deep relief. "I was sure he had
                        went," said she, producing from under her apron a note. "I
                        saw it was in a gentleman's writing, so I didn't come up
                        with it till he was out of the way, though the boy brought it a little after
                        nine."
                    "Oh, bother!" exclaimed Susan, taking the note.
                    "Well, Mrs. Spenser, I've had my lesson," replied
                             Annie, apologetic but firm.
                        "When I first came to New York, green as the grass that grows along
                        the edge of the spring, what does I do but go to work and take up a note to
                        a lady when her husband was there! Next thing I knew he went to work and
                        hauled her round the floor by the hair and skinned out—yes, beat it
                        for good. And my madam says to me, 'Annie, you're fired.
                        Never give a note to a lady when her gent is by or to a gent when his
                        lady's by. That's the first rule of life in gay New
                        York.' And you can bet I never have since—nor never
                        will."
                    Susan had glanced at the address on the note, had recognized the handwriting
                        of Brent's secretary. Her heart had straightway sunk as if the
                        foreboding of calamity had been realized. As she stood there uncertainly,
                        Annie seized the opportunity to run on and on. Susan now said absently,
                        "Thank you. Very well," and closed the door. It was a
                        minute or so before she tore open the envelope with an impatient gesture and
                        read: 
                            
                                
                                    DEAR MRS. SPENSER:
                                    Mr. Brent requests me to ask you not to come until further
                                        notice. It may be sometime before he will be free to
                                        resume.
                                     Yours truly, JOHN C. GARVEY.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    It was a fair specimen of Garvey's official style, with which she
                        had become acquainted—the style of the secretary who has learned by
                        experience not to use frills or flourishes but to convey his message in the
                        fewest and clearest words. Had it been a skillfully worded insult Susan, in
                        this mood of depression and distorted mental vision, could not have received
                        it differently.  She dropped to a chair at the
                        table and stared at the five lines of neat handwriting until her eyes became
                        circled and her face almost haggard. Precisely as Rod had described! After a
                        long, long time she crumpled the paper and let it fall into the
                        waste-basket. Then she walked up and down the room—presently
                        drifted into the bathroom and resumed cleaning the coffee machine. Every few
                        moments she would pause in the task—and in her dressing
                        afterwards—would be seized by the fear, the horror of again being
                        thrust into that hideous underworld. What was between her and it, to save
                        her from being flung back into its degradation? Two men on neither of whom
                        she could rely. Brent might drop her at any time—perhaps had
                        already dropped her. As for Rod—vain, capricious, faithless,
                        certain to become an unendurable tyrant if he got her in his
                        power—Rod was even less of a necessity than Brent. What a dangerous
                        situation was hers! How slender her chances of escape from another
                        catastrophe. She leaned against wall or table and was shaken by violent fits
                        of shuddering. She felt herself slipping—slipping. It was all she
                        could do to refrain from crying out. In those moments, no trace of the
                        self-possessed Susan the world always saw. Her fancy went mad and ran wild.
                        She quivered under the actuality of coarse contacts—Mrs. Tucker in
                        bed with her—the men who had bought her body for an
                        hour—the vermin of the tenements—the brutal hands of
                        policemen.
                    Then with an exclamation of impatience or of anger she would shake herself
                        together and go resolutely on—only again to relapse.
                        "Because I so suddenly cut off the liquor and the opium,"
                        she said. It was the obvious and the complete explanation. But her heart was
                        like lead, and her sky like ink. This note, the  day after having tried her out as a possibility for the stage and as a
                        woman. She stared down at the crumpled note in the waste-basket. That
                        note—it was herself. He had crumpled her up and thrown her into the
                        waste-basket, where she no doubt belonged.
                    It was nearly noon before she, dressed with unconscious care, stood in the
                        street doorway looking about uncertainly as if she did not know which way to
                        turn. She finally moved in the direction of the theater where Rod's
                        play was rehearsing. She had gone to none of the rehearsals because Rod had
                        requested it. "I want you to see it as a total surprise the first
                        night," explained he. "That'll give you more
                        pleasure, and also it will make your criticism more valuable to
                        us." And she had acquiesced, not displeased to have all her time
                        for her own affairs. But now she, dazed, stunned almost, convinced that it
                        was all over for her with Brent, instinctively turned to Rod to get human
                        help—not to ask for it, but in the hope that somehow he would
                        divine and would say or do something that would make the way ahead a little
                        less forbidding—something that would hearten her for the few first
                        steps, anyhow. She turned back several times—now, because she
                        feared Rod wouldn't like her coming; again because her
                        experience—enlightened good sense—told her that Rod
                        would—could—not help her, that her sole reliance was
                        herself. But in the end, driven by one of those spasms of terror lest the
                        underworld should be about to engulf her again, she stood at the stage
                        door.
                    As she was about to negotiate the surly looking man on guard within, Sperry
                        came rushing down the long dark passageway. He was brushing past her when he
                        saw who it was. "Too late!" he cried.
                        "Rehearsal's over."
                    
                    "I didn't come to the rehearsal," explained Susan.
                        "I thought perhaps Rod would be going to lunch."
                    "So he is. Go straight back. You'll find him on the stage.
                        I'll join you if you'll wait a minute or so." And
                        Sperry hurried on into the street.
                    Susan advanced along the passageway cautiously as it was but one remove from
                        pitch dark. Perhaps fifty feet, and she came to a cross passage. As she
                        hesitated, a door at the far end of it opened and she caught a glimpse of a
                        dressing-room and, in the space made by the partly opened door, a woman
                        half-dressed—an attractive glimpse. The woman—who seemed
                        young—was not looking down the passage, but into the room. She was
                        laughing in the way a woman laughs only when it is for a man, for the man—and was saying, "Now, Rod, you
                        must go, and give me a chance to finish dressing." A man's
                        arm—Rod's arm—reached across the opening in the
                        doorway. A hand—Susan recognized Rod's well-shaped
                        hand—was laid strongly yet tenderly upon the pretty bare arm of the
                        struggling, laughing young woman—and the door closed—and
                        the passage was soot-dark again. All this a matter of less than five
                        seconds. Susan, ashamed at having caught him, frightened lest she should be
                        found where she had no business to be, fled back along the main passage and
                        jerked open the street door. She ran squarely into Sperry.
                    "I—I beg your pardon," stammered he. "I
                        was in such a rush—I ought to have been thinking where I was going.
                        Did I hurt you?" This last most anxiously. "I'm
                        so sorry—"
                    "It's nothing—nothing," laughed Susan.
                        "You are the one that's hurt."
                    And in fact she had knocked Sperry breathless. 
                        "You don't look anything like so strong," gasped
                        he.
                    "Oh, my appearance is deceptive—in a lot of
                        ways."
                    For instance, he could have got from her face just then no hint of the agony
                        of fear torturing her—fear of the drop into the underworld.
                    "Find Rod?" asked he.
                    "He wasn't on the stage. So—I came out
                        again."
                    "Wait here," said Sperry. "I'll hunt him
                        up."
                    "Oh, no—please don't. I stopped on impulse.
                        I'll not bother him." She smiled mischievously.
                        "I might be interrupting."
                    Sperry promptly reddened. She had no difficulty in reading what was in his
                        mind—that her remark had reminded him of Rod's
                        "affair," and he was cursing himself for having been so
                        stupid as to forget it for the moment and put his partner in danger of
                        detection.
                    "I—I guess he's gone," stammered Sperry.
                        "Lord, but that was a knock you gave me! Better come to lunch with
                        me."
                    Susan hesitated, a wistful, forlorn look in her eyes. "Do you really
                        want me?" asked she.
                    "Come right along," said Sperry in a tone that left no
                        doubt of his sincerity. "We'll go to the Knickerbocker and
                        have something good to eat."
                    "Oh, no—a quieter place," urged Susan.
                    Sperry laughed. "You mean less expensive. There's one of
                        the great big differences between you and the make-believe ladies one bumps
                        into in this part of town. You don't like to be
                        troublesome or expensive. But we'll go to the Knickerbocker. I feel
                        'way down today, and I intended to treat myself. You don't
                        look any too gay-hearted yourself."
                    "I'll admit I don't like the way the cards are
                        running,"  said Susan.
                        "But—they'll run better—sooner or
                        later."
                    "Sure!" cried Sperry. "You needn't worry
                        about the play. That's all right. How I envy women!"
                    "Why?"
                    "Oh—you have Rod between you and the fight. While
                        I—I've got to look out for myself."
                    "So have I," said Susan. "So has everyone, for
                        that matter."
                    "Believe me, Mrs. Spenser," cried Sperry, earnestly,
                        "you can count on Rod. No matter what—"
                    "Please!" protested Susan. "I count on nobody. I
                        learned long ago not to lean."
                    "Well, leaning isn't exactly a safe position,"
                        Sperry admitted. "There never was a perfectly reliable crutch. Tell
                        me your troubles."
                    Susan smilingly shook her head. "That'd be leaning. . . .
                        No, thank you. I've got to think it out for myself. I believed I
                        had arranged for a career for myself. It seems to have gone to pieces
                        That's all. Something else will turn up—after
                        lunch."
                    "Not a doubt in the world," replied he confidently.
                        "Meanwhile—there's Rod."
                    Susan's laugh of raillery made him blush guiltily.
                        "Yes," said she, "there's Rod."
                        She laughed again, merrily. "There's Rod—but
                        where is there?"
                    "You're the only woman in the world he has any real liking
                        for," said Sperry, earnest and sincere. "Don't
                        you ever doubt that, Mrs. Spenser."
                    When they were seated in the café and he had ordered, he excused himself and
                        Susan saw him make his way to a table where sat Fitzalan and another man who
                        looked as if he too had to do with the stage. It was apparent that Fitzalan
                        was excited about something;  his lips, his
                        arms, his head were in incessant motion. Susan noted that he had picked up
                        many of Brent's mannerisms; she had got the habit of noting this
                        imitativeness in men—and in women, too—from having seen in
                        the old days how Rod took on the tricks of speech, manner, expression,
                        thought even, of whatever man he happened at the time to be admiring. May it
                        not have been this trait of Rod's that gave her the clue to his
                        character, when she was thinking him over, after the separation?
                    Sperry was gone nearly ten minutes. He came, full of apologies.
                        "Fitz held on to me while he roasted Brent. You've heard
                        of Brent, of course?"
                    "Yes," said Susan.
                    "Fitz has been seeing him off. And he says
                        it's—"
                    Susan glanced quickly at him. "Off?" she said.
                    "To Europe."
                    Susan had paused in removing her left glove. Rod's description of
                        Brent's way of sidestepping—Rod's description to
                        the last detail. Her hands fluttered uncertainly—fluttering fingers
                        like a flock of birds flushed and confused by the bang of the gun.
                    "And Fitz says—"
                    "For Europe," said Susan. She was drawing her fingers
                        slowly one by one from the fingers of her glove.
                    "Yes. He sailed, it seems, on impulse—barely time to climb
                        aboard. Fitz always lays everything to a woman. He says Brent has been mixed
                        up for a year or so with— Oh, it doesn't matter. I
                        oughtn't to repeat those things. I don't believe
                        'em—on principle. Every man—or woman—who
                        amounts to anything has scandal talked about him or her all the time. Good
                        Lord! If Robert Brent bothered with half the affairs  that are credited to him, he'd have no time or
                        strength—not to speak of brains—to do plays."
                    "I guess even the busiest man manages to fit a woman in
                        somehow," observed Susan. "A woman or so."
                    Sperry laughed. "I guess yes," said he. "But as to
                        Brent, most of the scandal about him is due to a fad of his—hunting
                        for an undeveloped female genius who—"
                    "I've heard of that," interrupted Susan.
                        "The service is dreadfully slow here. How long is it since you
                        ordered?"
                    "Twenty minutes—and here comes our waiter." And
                        then, being one of those who must finish whatever they have begun, he went
                        on. "Well, it's true Brent does pick up and drop a good
                        many ladies of one kind and another. And naturally, every one of them is
                        good-looking and clever or he'd not start in. But—you may
                        laugh at me if you like—I think he's strictly business
                        with all of them. He'd have got into trouble if he hadn't
                        been. And Fitz admits this one woman—she's a society
                        woman—is the only one there's any real basis for talk
                        about in connection with Brent."
                    Susan had several times lifted a spoonful of soup to her lips and had every
                        time lowered it untasted.
                    "And Brent's mighty decent to those he tries and has to
                        give up. I know of one woman he carried on his pay roll for nearly two
                        years—"
                    "Let's drop Mr. Brent," cried Susan.
                        "Tell me about—about the play."
                    "Rod must be giving you an overdose of that."
                    "I've not seen much of him lately. How was the
                        rehearsal?"
                    "Fair—fair." And Sperry forgot Brent and talked on
                        and on about the play, not checking himself until  the coffee was served. He had not observed that Susan was
                        eating nothing. Neither had he observed that she was not listening; but
                        there was excuse for this oversight, as she had set her expression at
                        absorbed attention before withdrawing within herself to think—and
                        to suffer. She came to the surface again when Sperry, complaining of the way
                        the leading lady was doing her part, said: "No wonder Brent drops
                        one after another. Women aren't worth much as workers. Their real
                        mind's always occupied with the search for a man to support
                        'em."
                    "Not always," cried Susan, quivering with sudden pain.
                        "Oh, no, Mr. Sperry—not always."
                    "Yes—there are exceptions," said Sperry, not
                        noting how he had wounded her. "But—well, I never happened
                        to run across one."
                    "Can you blame them?" mocked Susan. She was ashamed that
                        she had been stung into crying out.
                    "To be honest—no," said Sperry. "I
                        suspect I'd throw up the sponge and sell out if I had anything a
                        lady with cash wanted to buy. I only suspect myself. But I
                            know most men would. No, I don't blame the
                        ladies. Why not have a nice easy time? Only one short life—and
                        then—the worms."
                    She was struggling with the re-aroused insane terror of a fall back to the
                        depths whence she had once more just come—and she felt that, if she
                        fell again, it would mean the very end of hope. It must have been instinct
                        or accident, for it certainly was not any prompting from her calm
                        expression, that moved him to say:
                    "Now, tell me your troubles. I've told
                        you mine. . . . You surely must have some?"
                    Susan forced a successful smile of raillery. "None to speak
                        of," evaded she.
                    
                    When she reached home there was a telegram—from Brent: 
                            
                                
                                    Compelled to sail suddenly. Shall be back in a few weeks.
                                        Don't mind this annoying interruption.
                                    
                                        R. B.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    A very few minutes after she read these words, she was at work on the play.
                        But—a very few minutes thereafter she was sitting with the play in
                        her lap, eyes gazing into the black and menacing future. The misgivings of
                        the night before had been fed and fattened into despairing certainties by
                        the events of the day. The sun was shining, never more brightly; but it was
                        not the light of her City of the Sun. She stayed in all afternoon and all
                        evening. During those hours before she put out the light and shut herself
                        away in the dark a score of Susans, every one different from every other,
                        had been seen upon the little theater of that lodging house parlor-bedroom.
                        There had been a hopeful Susan, a sad but resolved Susan, a strong Susan, a
                        weak Susan; there had been Susans who could not have shed a tear; there had
                        been Susans who shed many tears—some of them Susans all bitterness,
                        others Susans all humility and self-reproach. Any spectator would have been
                        puzzled by this shifting of personality. Susan herself was completely
                        confused. She sought for her real self among this multitude so
                        contradictory. Each successive one seemed the reality; yet none persisted.
                        When we look in at our own souls, it is like looking into a many-sided room
                        lined with mirrors. We see
                        reflections—re-reflections—views at all
                        angles—but we cannot distinguish the soul itself among all these
                        counterfeits, all real yet all false because partial.
                    
                    "What shall I do? What can I do? What will I
                        do?"—that was her last cry as the day ended. And it was
                        her first cry as her weary brain awakened for the new day.
                    At the end of the week came the regular check with a note from
                        Garvey—less machine-like, more human. He apologized for not having
                        called, said one thing and another had prevented, and now illness of a near
                        relative compelled him to leave town for a few days, but as soon as he came
                        back he would immediately call. It seemed to Susan that there could be but
                        one reason why he should call—the reason that would make a timid,
                        soft-hearted man such as he put off a personal interview as long as he could
                        find excuses. She flushed hot with rage and shame as she reflected on her
                        position. Garvey pitying her! She straightway sat down and wrote: 
                            
                                
                                    DEAR MR. GARVEY:
                                    Do not send me any more checks until Mr. Brent comes back and
                                        I have seen him. I am in doubt whether I shall be able to go
                                        on with the work he and I had arranged.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    She signed this "Susan Lenox" and dispatched it. At once
                        she felt better in spite of the fact that she had, with characteristic and
                        fatal folly, her good sense warned her, cut herself off from all the income
                        in sight or in prospect. She had debated sending back the check, but had
                        decided that if she did she might give the impression of pique or anger. No,
                        she would give him every chance to withdraw from a bargain with which he was
                        not content; and he would get the idea that it was she who was ending the
                        arrangement, would therefore feel no sense of responsibility for her. She
                             would save her pride; she would spare his
                        feelings. She was taking counsel of Burlingham these days—was
                        recalling the lesson he had taught her, was getting his aid in deciding her
                        course. Burlingham protested vehemently against this sending back of the
                        check; but she let her pride, her aversion to being an object of pity,
                        overrule him.
                    A few days more, and she was so desperate, so harassed that she altogether
                        lost confidence in her own judgment. While outwardly she seemed to be the
                        same as always with Rod, she had a feeling of utter alienation. Still, there
                        was no one else to whom she could turn. Should she put the facts before him
                        and ask his opinion? Her intelligence said no; her heart said perhaps. While
                        she was hesitating, he decided for her. One morning at breakfast he stopped
                        talking about himself long enough to ask carelessly:
                    "About you and Brent—he's gone away. What are you
                        doing?"
                    "Nothing," said she.
                    "Going to take that business up again, when he comes
                        back?"
                    "I don't know."
                    "I wouldn't count on it, if I were you. . . .
                        You're so sensitive that I've hesitated to say anything.
                        But I think that chap was looking for trouble, and when he found you were
                        already engaged, why, he made up his mind to drop it."
                    "Do you think so?" said Susan indifferently. "More
                        coffee?"
                    "Yes—a little. If my play's as good as your
                        coffee— That's enough, thanks. . . . Do you still draw
                        your—your—"
                    His tone as he cast about for a fit word made her  flush scarlet. "No—I stopped it until we
                        begin work again."
                    He did not conceal his thorough satisfaction. "That's
                        right!" he cried. "The only cloud on our happiness is
                        gone. You know, a man doesn't like that sort of
                        thing."
                    "I know," said Susan drily.
                    And she understood why that very night he for the first time asked her to
                        supper after the rehearsal with Sperry and Constance Francklyn, the leading
                        lady, with whom he was having one of those affairs which as he declared to
                        Sperry were "absolutely necessary to a man of genius to keep him
                        freshened up—to keep the fire burning brightly." He had
                        carefully coached Miss Francklyn to play the part of unsuspected
                        "understudy"—Susan saw that before they had been
                        seated in Jack's ten minutes. And she also saw that he was himself
                        resolved to conduct himself "like a gentleman." But after
                        he had taken two or three highballs, Susan was forced to engage deeply in
                        conversation with the exasperated and alarmed Sperry to avoid seeing how
                        madly Rod and Constance were flirting. She, however, did contrive to see
                        nothing—at least, the other three were convinced that she had not
                        seen. When they were back in their rooms, Rod—whether through
                        pretense or through sidetracked amorousness or from simple
                        intoxication—became more demonstrative than he had been for a long
                        time.
                    "No, there's nobody like you," he declared.
                        "Even if I wandered I'd always come back to
                        you."
                    "Really?" said Susan with careless irony.
                        "That's good. No, I can unhook my blouse."
                    "I do believe you're growing cold."
                    "I don't feel like being messed with tonight."
                    
                    "Oh, very well," said he sulkily. Then, forgetting his ill
                        humor after a few minutes of watching her graceful movements and gestures as
                        she took off her dress and made her beautiful hair ready for the night, he
                        burst out in a very different tone: "You don't know how
                        glad I am that you're dependent on me again. You'll not be
                        difficult any more."
                    A moment's silence, then Susan, with a queer little laugh,
                        "Men don't in the least mind—do
                        they?"
                    "Mind what?"
                    "Being loved for money." There was a world of sarcasm in
                        her accent on that word loved.
                    "Oh, nonsense. You don't understand yourself,"
                        declared he with large confidence. "Women never grow up.
                        They're like babies—and babies, you know, love the person
                        that feeds them."
                    "And dogs—and cats—and birds—and all the
                        lower orders." She took a book and sat in a wrapper under the
                        light.
                    "Come to bed—please, dear," pleaded he.
                    "No, I'll read a while."
                    And she held the book before her until he was asleep. Then she sat a long
                        time, her elbows on her knees, her chin supported by her hands, her gaze
                        fixed upon his face—the face of the man who was her master now. She
                        must please him, must accept what treatment he saw fit to give, must rein in
                        her ambitions to suit the uncertain gait and staying power of his ability to
                        achieve. She could not leave him; he could leave her when he might feel so
                        inclined. Her master—capricious, tyrannical, a drunkard. Her sole
                        reliance—and the first condition of his protection was that she
                        should not try to do for herself. A dependent, condemned to become even more
                        dependent.
                
                
                
                    XVII
                    
                        SHE now spent a large part of every day in wandering, like
                        a derelict, drifting aimlessly this way or that, up into the Park or along
                        Fifth Avenue. She gazed intently into shop windows, apparently inspecting
                        carefully all the articles on display; but she passed on, unconscious of
                        having seen anything. If she sat at home with a book she rarely turned a
                        page, though her gaze was fastened upon the print as if she were absorbingly
                        interested.
                    What was she feeling? The coarse contacts of street life and tenement
                        life—the choice between monstrous defilements from human beings and
                        monstrous defilements from filth and vermin. What was she seeing? The old
                        women of the slums—the forlorn, aloof figures of shattered health
                        and looks—creeping along the gutters, dancing in the barrel houses,
                        sleeping on the floor in some vile hole in the wall—sleeping the
                        sleep from which one awakes bitten by mice and bugs, and swarming with
                        lice.
                    She had entire confidence in Brent's judgment. Brent must have
                        discovered that she was without talent for the stage—for if he had
                        thought she had the least talent, would he not in his kindness have arranged
                        or offered some sort of place in some theater or other? Since she had no
                        stage talent—then—what should she do? What could she do? And so her mind wandered as aimlessly as her
                        wandering steps. And never before had the sweet melancholy of her eyes been
                        so moving.
                    But, though she did not realize it, there was a  highly significant difference between this mood of profound
                        discouragement and all the other similar moods that had accompanied and
                        accelerated her downward plunges. Every time theretofore, she had been cowed
                        by the crushing mandate of destiny—had made no struggle against it
                        beyond the futile threshings about of aimless youth. This time she lost
                        neither strength nor courage. She was no longer a child; she was no longer
                        mere human flotsam and jetsam. She did not know which way to turn; but she
                        did know, with all the certainty of a dauntless will, that she would turn
                        some way—and that it would not be a way leading back to the marshes
                        and caves of the underworld. She wandered—she wandered aimlessly;
                        but not for an instant did she cease to keep watch for the right
                        direction—the direction that would be the best available in the
                        circumstances. She did not know or greatly care which way it led, so long as
                        it did not lead back whence she had come.
                    In all her excursions she had—not consciously but by
                        instinct—kept away from her old beat. Indeed, except in the company
                        of Spenser or Sperry she had never ventured into the neighborhood of Long
                        Acre. But one day she was deflected by chance at the Forty-second Street
                        corner of Fifth Avenue and drifted westward, pausing at each book stall to
                        stare at the titles of the bargain offerings in literature. As she stood at
                        one of these stalls near Sixth Avenue, she became conscious that two men
                        were pressing against her, one on either side. She moved back and started on
                        her way. One of the men was standing before her. She lifted her eyes, was
                        looking into the cruel smiling eyes of a man with a big black mustache and
                        the jaws of a prize-fighter. His smile broadened.
                    
                    "I thought it was you, Queenie," said he.
                        "Delighted to see you."
                    She recognized him as a fly cop who had been one of Freddie Palmer's
                        handy men. She fell back a step and the other man—she knew him
                        instantly as also a policeman—lined up beside him of the black
                        mustache. Both men were laughing.
                    "We've been on the lookout for you a long time,
                        Queenie," said the other. "There's a friend of
                        yours that wants to see you mighty bad."
                    Susan glanced from one to the other, her face pale but calm, in contrast to
                        her heart where was all the fear and horror of the police which long and
                        savage experience had bred. She turned away without speaking and started
                        toward Sixth Avenue.
                    "Now, what d'ye think of that?" said Black
                        Mustache to his "side kick." "I thought she was
                        too much of a lady to cut an old friend. Guess we'd better run her
                        in, Pete."
                    "That's right," assented Pete. "Then we
                        can keep her safe till F. P. can get the hooks on her."
                    Black Mustache laughed, laid his hand on her arm. "You'll
                        come along quietly," said he. "You don't want to
                        make a scene. You always was a perfect lady."
                    She drew her arm away. "I am a married woman—living with my
                        husband."
                    Black Mustache laughed. "Think of that, Pete! And she soliciting us.
                        That'll be good news for your loving husband. Come along, Queenie.
                        Your record's against you. Everybody'll know
                        you've dropped back to your old ways."
                    "I am going to my husband," said she quietly. "You
                        had better not annoy me."
                    Pete looked uneasy, but Black Mustache's sinister  face became more resolute. "If you
                        wanted to live respectable, why did you solicit us two? Come
                        along—or do you want me and Pete to take you by the
                        arms?"
                    "Very well," said she. "I'll
                        go." She knew the police, knew that Palmer's lieutenant
                        would act as he said—and she also knew what her
                        "record" would do toward carrying through the plot.
                    She walked in the direction of the station house, the two plain clothes men
                        dropping a few feet behind and rejoining her only when they reached the
                        steps between the two green lamps. In this way they avoided collecting a
                        crowd at their heels. As she advanced to the desk, the sergeant yawning over
                        the blotter glanced up.
                    "Bless my soul!" cried he, all interest at once.
                        "If it ain't F. P.'s Queenie!"
                    "And up to her old tricks, sergeant," said Black Mustache.
                        "She solicited me and Pete."
                    Susan was looking the sergeant straight in the eyes. "I am a married
                        woman," said she. "I live with my husband. I was looking
                        at some books in Forty-second Street when these two came up and arrested
                        me."
                    The sergeant quailed, glanced at Pete who was guiltily hanging his
                        head—glanced at Black Mustache. There he got the support he was
                        seeking. "What's your husband's name?"
                        demanded Black Mustache roughly. "What's your
                        address?"
                    And Rod's play coming on the next night but one! She shrank,
                        collected herself. "I am not going to drag him into this, if I can
                        help it," said she. "I give you a chance to keep
                        yourselves out of trouble." She was gazing calmly at the sergeant
                        again. "You know these men are not telling the truth. You know
                        they've brought me here because of Freddie Palmer. My husband  knows all about my past. He will stand by me.
                        But I wish to spare him."
                    The sergeant's uncertain manner alarmed Black Mustache.
                        "She's putting up a good bluff," scoffed he.
                        "The truth is she ain't got no husband. She'd not
                        have solicited us if she was living decent."
                    "You hear what the officer says," said the sergeant, taking
                        the tone of great kindness. "You'll have to give your name
                        and address—and I'll leave it to the judge to decide
                        between you and the officers." He took up his pen.
                        "What's your name?"
                    Susan, weak and trembling, was clutching the iron rail before the
                        desk—the rail worn smooth by the nervous hands of ten thousand of
                        the social system's sick or crippled victims.
                    "Come—what's your name?" jeered Black
                        Mustache.
                    Susan did not answer.
                    "Put her down Queenie Brown," cried he, triumphantly.
                    The sergeant wrote. Then he said: "Age?"
                    No answer from Susan. Black Mustache answered for her: "About
                        twenty-two now."
                    "She don't look it," said the sergeant, almost at
                        ease once more. "But brunettes stands the racket better'n
                        blondes. Native parents?"
                    No answer.
                    "Native. You don't look Irish or Dutch or
                        Dago—though you might have a dash of the Spinnitch or the
                        Frog-eaters. Ever arrested before?"
                    No answer from the girl, standing rigid at the bar. Black Mustache said:
                    "At least oncet, to my knowledge. I run her in myself."
                    
                    Oh, she's got a record?" exclaimed the sergeant, now wholly
                        at ease. "Why the hell didn't you say so?"
                    "I thought you remembered. You took her pedigree."
                    "I do recollect now," said the sergeant. "Take my
                        advice, Queenie, and drop that bluff about the officers lying. Swallow your
                        medicine—plead guilty—and you'll get off with a
                        fine. If you lie about the police, the judge'll soak it to you. It
                        happens to be a good judge—a friend of
                        Freddie's." Then to the policemen: "Take her
                        along to court, boys, and get back here as soon as you can."
                    "I want her locked up," objected Black Mustache.
                        "I want F. P. to see her. I've got to hunt for
                        him."
                    "Can't do it," said the sergeant. "If she
                        makes a yell about police oppression, our holding on to her would look bad.
                        No, put her through."
                    Susan now straightened herself and spoke. "I shan't make
                        any complaint," said she. "Anything rather than court. I
                        can't stand that. Keep me here."
                    "Not on your life!" cried the sergeant.
                        "That's a trick. She'd have a good case against
                        us."
                    "F. P.'ll raise the devil if—" began
                        Black Mustache.
                    "Then hunt him up right away. To court she's got to go. I
                        don't want to get broke."
                    The two men fell afoul each other with curse and abuse. They were in no way
                        embarrassed by the presence of Susan. Her "record" made
                        her of no account either as a woman or as a witness. Soon each was so well
                        pleased with the verbal wounds he had dealt the other that their anger
                        evaporated. The upshot of the hideous controversy was that Black Mustache
                        said:
                    
                    "You take her to court, Pete. I'll hunt up F. P. Keep her
                        till the last."
                    In after days she could recall starting for the street car with the officer,
                        Pete; then memory was a blank until she was sitting in a stuffy room with a
                        prison odor—the anteroom to the court. She and Pete were alone. He
                        was walking nervously up and down pulling his little fair mustache. It must
                        have been that she had retained throughout the impassive features which,
                        however stormy it was within, gave her an air of strength and calm.
                        Otherwise Pete would not presently have halted before her to say in a low,
                        agitated voice:
                    "If you can make trouble for us, don't do it. I've
                        got a wife, and three babies—one come only last week—and
                        my old mother paralyzed. You know how it is with us fellows—that
                        we've got to do what them higher up says or be broke."
                    Susan made no reply.
                    "And F. P.—he's right up next the big fellows
                        nowadays. What he says goes. You can see for yourself how much chance
                        against him there'd be for a common low-down cop."
                    She was still silent, not through anger as he imagined but because she had no
                        sense of the reality of what was happening. The officer, who had lost his
                        nerve, looked at her a moment, in his animal eyes a humble pleading look;
                        then he gave a groan and turned away. "Oh, hell!" he
                        muttered.
                    Again her memory ceased to record until—the door swung open; she
                        shivered, thinking it was the summons to court. Instead, there stood Freddie
                        Palmer. The instant she looked into his face she became as calm and strong
                        as her impassive expression had been falsely making her seem. Behind him was
                        Black Mustache,  his face ghastly, sullen,
                        cowed. Palmer made a jerky motion of head and arm. Pete went; and the door
                        closed and she was alone with him.
                    "I've seen the Judge and you're free,"
                        said Freddie.
                    She stood and began to adjust her hat and veil.
                    "I'll have those filthy curs kicked off the
                        force."
                    She was looking tranquilly at him.
                    "You don't believe me? You think I ordered it
                        done?"
                    She shrugged her shoulders. "No matter," she said.
                        "It's undone now. I'm much obliged. It's
                        more than I expected."
                    "You don't believe me—and I don't blame
                        you. You think I'm making some sort of grandstand
                        play."
                    "You haven't changed—at least not
                        much."
                    "I'll admit, when you left I was wild and did tell
                        'em to take you in as soon as they found you. But that was a long
                        time ago. And I never meant them to disturb a woman who was living
                        respectably with her husband. There may have been—yes, there was a
                        time when I'd have done that—and worse. But not any more.
                        You say I haven't changed. Well, you're wrong. In some
                        ways I have. I'm climbing up, as I always told you I
                        would—and as a man gets up he sees things differently. At least, he
                        acts differently. I don't do that kind of dirty
                        work, any more."
                    "I'm glad to hear it," murmured Susan for lack of
                        anything else to say.
                    He was as handsome as ever, she saw—had the same charm of
                        manner—a charm owing not a little of its potency to the impression
                        he made of the man who would dare as far as any man, and then go on to dare
                        a step farther—the step from which all but the rare,  utterly unafraid man shrinks. His look at her
                        could not but appeal to her vanity as woman, and to her woman's
                        craving for being loved; at the same time it agitated her with specters of
                        the days of her slavery to him. He said:
                    "You've changed—a lot. And all
                        to the good. The only sign is rouge on your lips and that isn't
                        really a sign nowadays. But then you never did look the
                        professional—and you weren't."
                    His eyes were appealingly tender as he gazed at her sweet, pensive face, with
                        its violet-gray eyes full of mystery and sorrow and longing. And the clear
                        pallor of her skin, and the slender yet voluptuous lines of her form
                        suggested a pale, beautiful rose, most delicate of flowers yet about the
                        hardiest.
                    "So—you've married and settled down?"
                    "No," replied Susan. "Neither the one nor the
                        other."
                    "Why, you told—"
                    "I'm supposed to be a married woman."
                    "Why didn't you give your name and address at the police
                        station?" said he. "They'd have let you go at
                        once."
                    "Yes, I know," replied she. "But the newspapers
                        would probably have published it. So—I couldn't. As it is
                        I've been worrying for fear I'd be recognized, and the man
                        would get a write-up."
                    "That was square," said he. "Yes, it'd
                        have been a dirty trick to drag him in."
                    It was the matter-of-course to both of them that she should have protected
                        her "friend." She had simply obeyed about the most
                        stringent and least often violated article in the moral code of the world of
                        outcasts. If Freddie's worst enemy in that world had murdered  him, Freddie would have used his last breath
                        in shielding him from the common foe, the law.
                    "If you're not married to him, you're
                        free," said Freddie with a sudden new kind of interest in her.
                    "I told you I should always be free."
                    They remained facing each other a moment. When she moved to go, he said:
                    "I see you've still got your taste in dress—only
                        more so."
                    She smiled faintly, glanced at his clothing. He was dressed with real
                        fashion. He looked Fifth Avenue at its best, and his expression bore out the
                        appearance of the well-bred man of fortune. "I can return the
                        compliment," said she. "And you too have
                        improved."
                    At a glance all the old fear of him had gone beyond the possibility of
                        return. For she instantly realized that, like all those who give up war upon
                        society and come in and surrender, he was enormously agitated about his new
                        status, was impressed by the conventionalities to a degree that made him
                        almost weak and mildly absurd. He was saying:
                    "I don't think of anything else but improving—in
                        every way. And the higher I get the higher I want to go. . . . That was a
                        dreadful thing I did to you. I wasn't to blame. It was part of the
                        system. A man's got to do at every stage whatever's
                        necessary. But I don't expect you to appreciate that. I know
                        you'll never forgive me."
                    "I'm used to men doing dreadful things."
                    
                        "You don't do them."
                    "Oh, I was brought up badly-badly for the game, I mean. But
                        I'm doing better, and I shall do still better. I can't
                        abolish the system. I can't stand out against it —and  live. So, I'm yielding—in
                        my own foolish fashion."
                    "You don't lay up against me the—the—you
                        know what I mean?"
                    The question surprised her, so far as it aroused any emotion. She answered
                        indifferently:
                    "I don't lay anything up against anybody. What's
                        the use? I guess we all do the best we can—the best the
                        system'll let us."
                    And she was speaking the exact truth. She did not reason out the causes of a
                        state of mind so alien to the experiences of the comfortable classes that
                        they could not understand it, would therefore see in it hardness of heart.
                        In fact, the heart has nothing to do with this attitude in those who are
                        exposed to the full force of the cruel buffetings of the storms that
                        incessantly sweep the wild and wintry sea of active life. They lose the
                        sense of the personal. Where they yield to anger and revenge upon the
                        instrument the blow fate has used it to inflict, the resentment is
                        momentary. The mood of personal vengeance is characteristic of stupid people
                        leading uneventful lives—of comfortable classes, of remote rural
                        districts. She again moved to go, this time putting out her hand with a
                        smile. He said, with an awkwardness most significant in one so supple of
                        mind and manner:
                    "I want to talk to you. I've got something to
                        propose—something that'll interest you. Will you give
                        me—say, about an hour?"
                    She debated, then smiled. "You will have me arrested if I
                        refuse?"
                    He flushed scarlet. "You're giving me what's
                        coming to me," said he. "The reason—one
                        reason—I've got on so well is that I've never
                        been a liar."
                    
                    "No—you never were that."
                    "You, too. It's always a sign of bravery, and
                        bravery's the one thing I respect. Yes, what I said I'd do
                        always I did. That's the only way to get on in
                        politics—and the crookeder the politics the more careful a man has
                        to be about acting on the level. I can borrow a hundred thousand dollars
                        without signing a paper—and that's more than the crooks in
                        Wall Street can do—the biggest and best of them. So, when I told
                        you how things were with me about you, I was on the level."
                    "I know it," said Susan. "Where shall we go? I
                        can't ask you to come home with me."
                    "We might go to tea somewhere—"
                    Susan laughed outright. Tea! Freddie Palmer proposing tea! What a changed
                        hooligan—how ridiculously changed! The other Freddie
                        Palmer—the real one—the fascinating repelling mixture of
                        all the barbaric virtues and vices must still be there. But how carefully
                        hidden—and what strong provocation would be needed to bring that
                        savage to the surface again. The Italian in him, that was carrying him so
                        far so cleverly, enabled him instantly to understand her amusement. He
                        echoed her laugh. Said he:
                    "You've no idea the kind of people I'm traveling
                        with—not political swells, but the real thing. What do you say to
                        the Brevoort?"
                    She hesitated.
                    "You needn't be worried about being seen with me, no matter
                        how high you're flying," he hastened to say. "I
                        always did keep myself in good condition for the rise. Nothing's
                        known about me—or ever will be."
                    The girl was smiling at him again. "I wasn't thinking  of those things," said she.
                        "I've never been to the Brevoort."
                    "It's quiet and respectable."
                    Susan's eyes twinkled. "I'm glad it's
                        respectable," said she. "Are you quite sure you can afford to be seen with me? It's
                        true they don't make the fuss about right and wrong side of the
                        line that they did a few years ago. They've gotten a metropolitan
                        morality. Still—I'm not respectable and never shall
                        be."
                    "Don't be too hasty about that," protested he,
                        gravely. "But wait till you hear my proposition."
                    As they walked through West Ninth Street she noted that there was more of a
                        physical change in him than she had seen at first glance. He was less
                        athletic, heavier of form and his face was fuller. "You
                        don't keep in as good training as you used," said she.
                    "It's those infernal automobiles," cried he.
                        "They're death to figure—to health, for that
                        matter. But I've got the habit, and I don't suppose
                        I'll ever break myself of it. I've taken on twenty pounds
                        in the past year, and I've got myself so upset that the doctor has
                        ordered me abroad to take a cure. Then there's champagne. I
                        can't let that alone, either, though I know it's plain
                        poison."
                    And when they were in the restaurant of the Brevoort he insisted on ordering
                        champagne—and left her for a moment to telephone for his
                        automobile. It amused her to see a man so masterful thus pettily enslaved.
                        She laughed at him, and he again denounced himself as a weak fool.
                        "Money and luxury are too much for me. They are for everybody.
                        I'm not as strong willed as I used to be," he said.
                        "And it makes me uneasy. That's another reason for my
                        proposition."
                    
                    "Well—let's hear it," said she.
                        "I happen to be in a position where I'm fond of hearing
                        propositions—even if I have no intention of
                        accepting."
                    She was watching him narrowly. The Freddie Palmer he was showing to her was a
                        surprising but perfectly logical development of a side of his character with
                        which she had been familiar in the old days; she was watching for that other
                        side—the sinister and cruel side. "But first," he
                        went on, "I must tell you a little about myself. I think I told you
                        once about my mother and father?"
                    "I remember," said Susan.
                    "Well, honestly, do you wonder that I was what I used to
                        be?"
                    "No," she answered. "I wonder that you are what
                        you seem to be."
                    "What I come pretty near being," cried he. "The
                        part that's more or less put on today is going to be the real thing
                        tomorrow. That's the way it is with life—you put on a
                        thing, and gradually learn to wear it. And—I want you to help
                        me."
                    There fell silence between them, he gazing at his glass of champagne, turning
                        it round and round between his long white fingers and watching the bubbles
                        throng riotously up from the bottom. "Yes," he said
                        thoughtfully, "I want you to help me. I've been waiting
                        for you. I knew you'd turn up again." He laughed.
                        "I've been true to you in a way—a man's
                        way. I've hunted the town for women who suggested you—a
                        poor sort of makeshift—but—I had to do
                        something."
                    "What were you going to tell me?"
                    Her tone was business-like. He did not resent it, but straightway acquiesced.
                        "I'll plunge right in. 
                        I've been, as you know, a bad one—bad all my life. I was
                        born bad. You know about my mother and father. One of my sisters died in a
                        disreputable resort. The other—well, the last I heard of her, she
                        was doing time in an English pen. I've got a
                        brother—he's a degenerate. Well!—not to linger
                        over rotten smells, I was the only one of the family that had brains. I soon
                        saw that everybody who gets on in the world is bad—which simply
                        means doing disturbing things of one kind and another. And I saw that the
                        ordinary crooks let their badness run their brains, while the get-on kind of
                        people let their brains run their badness. You can be rotten—and
                        sink lower and lower every day. Or you can gratify your natural taste for
                        rottenness and at the same time get up in the world. I made up my mind to do
                        the rotten things that get a man money and power."
                    "Respectability," said Susan.
                    "Respectability—exactly. So I set out to improve my brains.
                        I went to night school and read and studied. And I didn't stay a
                        private in the gang of toughs. I had the brains to be leader, but the
                        leader's got to be a fighter too. I took up boxing and made good in
                        the ring. I got to be leader. Then I pushed my way up where I thought out
                        the dirty work for the others to do, and I stayed under cover and made
                        'em bring the big share of the profits to me. And they did it
                        because I had the brains to think out jobs that paid well and that could be
                        pulled off without getting pinched—at least, not always getting
                        pinched."
                    Palmer sipped his champagne, looked at her to see if she was appreciative.
                        "I thought you'd understand," said he.
                        "I needn't go into details. You remember about the
                        women?"
                    
                    "Yes, I remember," said Susan. "That was one step
                        in the ladder up?"
                    "It got me the money to make my first play for respectability. I
                        couldn't have got it any other way. I had extravagant
                        tastes—and the leader has to be always giving up to help this
                        fellow and that out of the hole. And I never did have luck with the cards
                        and the horses."
                    "Why did you want to be respectable?" she asked.
                    "Because that's the best graft," explained he.
                        "It means the most money, and the most influence. The coyotes that
                        raid the sheep fold don't get the big share—though they
                        may get a good deal. No, it's the shepherds and the owners that
                        pull off the most. I've been leader of coyotes. I'm
                        graduating into shepherd and proprietor."
                    "I see," said Susan. "You make it beautifully
                        clear."
                    He bowed and smiled. "Thank you, kindly. Then, I'll go on.
                        I'm deep in the contracting business now. I've got a pot
                        of money put away. I've cut out the cards—except a little
                        gentlemen's game now and then, to help me on with the right kind of
                        people. Horses, the same way. I've got my political pull
                        copper-riveted. It's as good with the Republicans as with
                        Democrats, and as good with the reform crowd as with either. My next move is
                        to cut loose from the gang. I've put a lot of lieutenants between
                        me and them, instead of dealing with them direct. I'm putting in
                        several more—fellows I'm not ashamed to be seen with in
                        Delmonico's."
                    "What's become of Jim?" asked Susan.
                    "Dead—a kike shot him all to pieces in a joint in Seventh
                        Avenue about a month ago. As I was saying, how do these big
                        multi-millionaires do the trick? They 
                        don't tell somebody to go steal what they happen to want. They tell
                        somebody they want it, and that somebody else tells somebody else to get it,
                        and that somebody else passes the word along until it reaches the poor
                        devils who must steal it or lose their jobs. I studied it all out, and
                        I've framed up my game the same way. Nowadays, every dollar that
                        comes to me has been thoroughly cleaned long before it drops into my pocket.
                        But you're wondering where you come
                        in."
                    "Women are only interested in what's coming to
                        them," said Susan.
                    "Sensible men are the same way. The men who
                        aren't—they work for wages and salaries. If
                        you're going to live off of other people, as women and the rich do,
                        you've got to stand steady, day and night, for Number One. And now,
                        here's where you come in. You've no
                        objection to being respectable?"
                    "I've no objection to not being disreputable."
                    "That's the right way to put it," he promptly
                        agreed. "Respectable, you know, doesn't mean anything but
                        appearances. People who are really respectable, who let it strike in,
                        instead of keeping it on the outside where it belongs—they soon get
                        poor and drop down and out."
                    Palmer's revelation of himself and of a philosophy which life as it
                        had revealed itself to her was incessantly urging her to adopt so grappled
                        her attention that she altogether forgot herself. A man on his way to the
                        scaffold who suddenly sees and feels a cataclysm rocking the world about him
                        forgets his own plight. Unconsciously he was epitomizing, unconsciously she
                        was learning, the whole story of the progress of the race upward from beast
                        toward intellect—the brutal and 
                        bloody building of the highway from the caves of darkness toward the peaks
                        of light. The source from which springs, and ever has sprung, the cruelty of
                        man toward man is the struggle of the ambition of the few who see and insist
                        upon better conditions, with the inertia and incompetence of the many who
                        have little sight and less imagination. Ambition must use the inert
                        mass—must persuade it, if possible, must compel it by trick or
                        force if persuasion fails. But Palmer and Susan Lenox were, naturally, not
                        seeing the thing in the broad but only as it applied to themselves.
                    "I've read a whole lot of history and biography,"
                        Freddie went on, "and I've thought about what I read and
                        about what's going on around me. I tell you the world's
                        full of cant. The people who get there don't act on what is always
                        preached. The preaching isn't all lies—at least, I think
                        not. But it doesn't fit the facts a man or a woman has got to
                        meet."
                    "I realized that long ago," said Susan.
                    "There's a saying that you can't touch pitch
                        without being defiled. Well—you can't build without
                        touching pitch—at least not in a world where money's king
                        and where those with brains have to live off of those without brains by
                        making 'em work and showing 'em what to work at.
                        It's a hell of a world, but I didn't get
                        it up."
                    "And we've got to live in it," said she,
                        "and get out of it the things we want and need."
                    "That's the talk!" cried Palmer. "I see
                        you're 'on.' Now—to make a long story
                        short—you and I can get what we want. We can help each other. You
                        were better born than I am—you've had a better training in
                        manners and dress and all the classy sort of things. I've got the
                        money—and brains enough to learn with—  and I can help you in various ways.
                        So—I propose that we go up together."
                    "We've got—pasts," said Susan.
                    "Who hasn't that amounts to anything? Mighty few. No one
                        that's made his own pile, I'll bet you. I'm in a
                        position to do favors for people—the people we'd need. And
                        I'll get in a position to do more and more. As long as they can
                        make something out of us—or hope to—do you suppose
                        they'll nose into our pasts and root things up that'd
                        injure them as much as us?"
                    "It would be an interesting game, wouldn't it?"
                        said Susan.
                    She was reflectively observing the handsome, earnest face before
                        her—an incarnation of intelligent ambition, a Freddie Palmer who
                        was somehow divesting himself of himself—was growing
                        up—away from the rotten soil that had nourished him—up
                        into the air—was growing strongly—yes, splendidly!
                    "And we've got everything to gain and nothing to
                        lose," pursued he. "We'd not be adventurers, you
                        see. Adventurers are people who haven't any money and are looking
                        round to try to steal it. We'd have money. So, we'd be
                        building solid, right on the rock." The handsome young
                        man—the strongest, the most intelligent, the most purposeful she
                        had ever met, except possibly Brent—looked at her with an admiring
                        tenderness that moved her, the forlorn derelict adrift on the vast, lonely,
                        treacherous sea. "The reason I've waited for you to invite
                        you in on this scheme is that I tried you out and I found that you belong to
                        the mighty few people who do what they say they'll do, good bargain
                        or bad. It'd never occur to you to shuffle out of trying to keep
                        your word."
                    
                    "It hasn't—so far," said Susan.
                    "Well—that's the only sort of thing worth talking
                        about as morality. Believe me, for I've been through the whole game
                        from chimney pots to cellar floor."
                    "There's another thing, too," said the girl.
                    "What's that?"
                    "Not to injure anyone else."
                    Palmer shook his head positively. "It's believing that and
                        acting on it that has kept you down in spite of your brains and
                        looks."
                    "That I shall never do," said the girl. "It may be
                        weakness—I guess it is weakness. But—I draw the line
                        there."
                    "But I'm not proposing that you injure anyone—or
                        proposing to do it myself. As I said, I've got up where I can
                        afford to be good and kind and all that. And I'm willing to jump
                        you up over the stretch of the climb that can't be crossed without
                        being—well, anything but good and kind."
                    She was reflecting.
                    "You'll never get over that stretch by yourself.
                        It'll always turn you back."
                    "Just what do you propose?" she asked.
                    It gave her pleasure to see the keen delight her question, with its
                        implication of hope, aroused in him. Said he:
                    "That we go to Europe together and stay over there several
                        years—as long as you like—as long as it's
                        necessary. Stay till our pasts have disappeared—work ourselves in
                        with the right sort of people. You say you're not
                        married?"
                    "Not to the man I'm with."
                    "To somebody else?"
                    "I don't know. I was."
                    
                    "Well—that'll be looked into and straightened out.
                        And then we'll quietly marry."
                    Susan laughed. "You're too fast," said she.
                        "I'll admit I'm interested. I've been
                        looking for a road—one that doesn't lead toward where
                        we've come from. And this is the first road that has offered. But I
                        haven't agreed to go in with you yet—haven't even
                        begun to think it over. And if I did agree—which I probably
                        won't—why, still I'd not be willing to marry.
                        That's a serious matter. I'd want to be very, very sure I
                        was satisfied."
                    Palmer nodded, with a return of the look of admiration. "I
                        understand. You don't promise until you intend to stick, and once
                        you've promised all hell couldn't change
                        you."
                    "Another thing—very unfortunate, too. It looks to me as if
                        I'd be dependent on you for money."
                    Freddie's eyes wavered. "Oh, we'd never quarrel
                        about that," said he with an attempt at careless confidence.
                    "No," replied she quietly. "For the best of
                        reasons. I'd not consider going into any arrangement where
                        I'd be dependent on a man for money. I've had my
                        experience. I've learned my lesson. If I lived with you several
                        years in the sort of style you've suggested—no, not
                        several years but a few months—you'd have me absolutely at
                        your mercy. You'd thought of that, hadn't
                        you?"
                    His smile was confession.
                    "I'd develop tastes for luxuries and they'd become
                        necessities." Susan shook her head. "No—that
                        would be foolish—very foolish."
                    He was watching her so keenly that his expression was covert suspicion.
                        "What do you suggest?" he asked.
                    
                    "Not what you suspect," replied she, amused,
                        "I'm not making a play for a gift of a fortune. I
                        haven't anything to suggest."
                    There was a long silence, he turning his glass slowly and from time to time
                        taking a little of the champagne thoughtfully. She observed him with a
                        quizzical expression. It was apparent to her that he was debating whether he
                        would be making a fool of himself if he offered her an independence
                        outright. Finally she said:
                    "Don't worry, Freddie. I'd not take it, even if
                        you screwed yourself up to the point of offering it."
                    He glanced up quickly and guiltily. "Why not?" he said.
                        "You'd be practically my wife. I can trust you.
                        You've had experience, so you can't blame me for
                        hesitating. Money puts the devil in anybody who gets it—man or
                        woman. But I'll trust you—" he
                        laughed—"since I've got to."
                    "No. The most I'd take would be a salary. I'd be a
                        sort of companion."
                    "Anything you like," cried he. This last suspicion born of
                        a life of intimate dealings with his fellow-beings took flight.
                        "It'd have to be a big salary because you'd have
                        to dress and act the part. What do you say? Is it a go?"
                    "Oh, I can't decide now."
                    "When?"
                    She reflected. "I can tell you in a week."
                    He hesitated, said, "All right—a week."
                    She rose to go. "I've warned you the chances are against my
                        accepting."
                    "That's because you haven't looked the ground
                        over," replied he, rising. Then, after a nervous moment,
                        "Is the—is the—" He stopped short.
                    
                    "Go on," said she. "We must be frank with each
                        other."
                    "If the idea of living with me is—is
                        disagreeable—" And again he stopped, greatly
                        embarrassed—an amazing indication of the state of mind of such a
                        man as he—of the depth of his infatuation, of his respect, of his
                        new-sprung awe of conventionality.
                    "I hadn't given it a thought," replied she.
                        "Women are not especially sensitive about that sort of
                        thing."
                    "They're supposed to be. And I rather thought you
                        were."
                    She laughed mockingly. "No more than other women," said
                        she. "Look how they marry for a home—or money—or
                        social position—and such men! And look how they live with men year
                        after year, hating them. Men never could do that."
                    "Don't you believe it," replied he. "They
                        can, and they do. The kept man—in and out of marriage—is
                        quite a feature of life in our chaste little village."
                    Susan looked amused. "Well—why not?" said she.
                        "Everybody's simply got to have money
                        nowadays."
                    "And working for it is slow and mighty uncertain."
                    Her face clouded. She was seeing the sad wretched past from filthy tenement
                        to foul workshop. She said:
                    "Where shall I send you word?"
                    "I've an apartment at Sherry's now."
                    "Then—a week from today."
                    She put out her hand. He took it, and she marveled as she felt a tremor in
                        that steady hand of his. But his voice was resolutely careless as he said,
                        "So long. Don't forget how much I want or need you. And if
                        you do forget that, think of the advantages—seeing the world with
                        plenty of money—and all the rest  of
                        it. Where'll you get such another chance? You'll not be
                        fool enough to refuse."
                    She smiled, said as she went, "You may remember I used to be
                        something of a fool."
                    "But that was some time ago. You've learned a lot since
                        then—surely."
                    "We'll see. I've become—I
                        think—a good deal of a—of a New Yorker."
                    "That means frank about doing what the rest of the world does under
                        a stack of lies. It's a lovely world, isn't
                        it?"
                    "If I had made it," laughed Susan, "I'd
                        not own up to the fact."
                    She laughed; but she was seeing the old women of the slums—was
                        seeing them as one sees in the magic mirror the vision of one's
                        future self. And on the way home she said to herself, "It was a
                        good thing that I was arrested today. It reminded me. It warned me. But for
                        it, I might have gone on to make a fool of myself." And she
                        recalled how it had been one of Burlingham's favorite maxims that
                        everything is for the best, for those who know how to use it.
                
                
                
                    XVIII
                    
                        SHE wrote Garvey asking an appointment. The reply should
                        have come the next day or the next day but one at the farthest; for Garvey
                        had been trained by Brent to the supreme courtesy of promptness. It did not
                        come until the fourth day; before she opened it Susan knew about what she
                        would read—the stupidly obvious attempt to put off facing
                        her—the cowardice of a kind-hearted, weak fellow. She really had
                        her answer—was left without a doubt for hope to perch upon. But she
                        wrote again, insisting so sharply that he came the following day. His large,
                        tell-tale face was a restatement of what she had read in his delay and
                        between the lines of his note. He was effusively friendly with a sort of
                        mortuary suggestion, like one bearing condolences, that tickled her sense of
                        humor, far though her heart was from mirth.
                    "Something has happened," began she, "that makes
                        it necessary for me to know when Mr. Brent is coming back."
                    "Really, Mrs. Spenser—"
                    "Miss Lenox," she corrected.
                    "Yes—Miss Lenox, I beg your pardon. But really—in
                        my position—I know nothing of Mr. Brent's
                        plans—and if I did, I'd not be at liberty to speak of
                        them. I have written him what you wrote me about the
                        check—and—and—that is all."
                    "Mr. Garvey, is he ever—has he—" Susan,
                        desperate, burst out with more than she intended to say: "I care
                        nothing about it, one way or the other. If 
                        Mr. Brent is politely hinting that I won't do, I've a
                        right to know it. I have a chance at something else. Can't you tell
                        me?"
                    "I don't know anything about it—honestly I
                        don't, Miss Lenox," cried he, sweating profusely.
                    "You put an accent on the 'know,'" said
                        Susan. "You suspect that I'm right, don't
                        you?"
                    "I've no ground for suspecting—that
                        is—no, I haven't. He said nothing to me—nothing.
                        But he never does. He's very peculiar and uncertain . . . and I
                        don't understand him at all."
                    "Isn't this his usual way with the failures—his
                        way of letting them down easily?"
                    Susan's manner was certainly light and cheerful, an assurance that
                        he need have no fear of hysterics or despair or any sort of scene trying to
                        a soft heart. But Garvey could take but the one view of the favor or
                        disfavor of the god of his universe. He looked at her like a dog that is
                        getting a whipping from a friend. "Now, Miss Lenox, you've
                        no right to put me in this painful—"
                    "That's true," said Susan, done since she had got
                        what she sought. "I shan't say another word. When Mr.
                        Brent comes back, will you tell him I sent for you to ask you to thank him
                        for me—and say to him that I found something else for which I hope
                        I'm better suited?"
                    "I'm so glad," said Garvey, hysterically.
                        "I'm delighted. And I'm sure he will be, too. For
                        I'm sure he liked you, personally—and I must say I was
                        surprised when he went. But I must not say that sort of thing. Indeed, I
                        know nothing, Miss Lenox—I assure you—"
                    "And please tell him," interrupted Susan, "that
                        I'd  have written him myself, only I
                        don't want to bother him."
                    "Oh, no—no, indeed. Not that, Miss Lenox. I'm so
                        sorry. But I'm only the secretary. I can't say
                        anything."
                    It was some time before Susan could get rid of him, though he was eager to be
                        gone. He hung in the doorway, ejaculating disconnectedly, dropping and
                        picking up his hat, perspiring profusely, shaking hands again and again, and
                        so exciting her pity for his misery of the good-hearted weak that she was
                        for the moment forgetful of her own plight. Long before he went, he had
                        greatly increased her already strong belief in Brent's generosity
                        of character—for, thought she, he'd have got another
                        secretary if he hadn't been too kind to turn adrift so helpless and
                        foolish a creature. Well—he should have no trouble in getting rid
                        of her.
                    She was seeing little of Spenser and they were saying almost nothing to each
                        other. When he came at night, always very late, she was in bed and pretended
                        sleep. When he awoke, she got breakfast in silence; they read the newspapers
                        as they ate. And he could not spare the time to come to dinner. As the
                        decisive moment drew near, his fears dried up his confident volubility. He
                        changed his mind and insisted on her coming to the theater for the final
                        rehearsals. But "Shattered Lives" was not the sort of play
                        she cared for, and she was wearied by the profane and tedious wranglings of
                        the stage director and the authors, by the stupidity of the actors who had
                        to be told every little intonation and gesture again and again. The
                        agitation, the labor seemed grotesquely out of proportion to the triviality
                        of the matter at issue. At the first night she sat in a box from which
                        Spenser, in a high fever and twitching  with
                        nervousness, watched the play, gliding out just before the lights were
                        turned up for the intermission. The play went better than she had expected,
                        and the enthusiasm of the audience convinced her that it was a success
                        before the fall of the curtain on the second act. With the applause that
                        greeted the chief climax—the end of the third act—Spenser,
                        Sperry and Fitzalan were convinced. All three responded to curtain calls.
                        Susan had never seen Spenser so handsome, and she admired the calmness and
                        the cleverness of his brief speech of thanks. That line of footlights
                        between them gave her a new point of view on him, made her realize how being
                        so close to his weaknesses had obscured for her his strong
                        qualities—for, unfortunately, while a man's public life is
                        determined wholly by his strong qualities, his intimate life depends wholly
                        on his weaknesses. She was as fond of him as she had ever been; but it was
                        impossible for her to feel any thrill approaching love. Why? She looked at
                        his fine face and manly figure; she recalled how many good qualities he had.
                        Why had she ceased to love him? She thought perhaps some mystery of physical
                        lack of sympathy was in part responsible; then there was the fact that she
                        could not trust him. With many women, trust is not necessary to love; on the
                        contrary, distrust inflames love. It happened not to be so with Susan Lenox.
                        "I do not love him. I can never love him again. And when he uses
                        his power over me, I shall begin to dislike him." The lost
                        illusion! The dead love! If she could call it back to life! But
                        no—there it lay, coffined, the gray of death upon its features. Her
                        heart ached.
                    After the play Fitzalan took the authors and the leading lady, Constance
                        Francklyn, and Miss Lenox to supper in a private room at Rector's.
                        This was Miss  Francklyn's first
                        trial in a leading part. She had small ability as an actress, having never
                        risen beyond the primer stage of mere posing and declamation in which so
                        many players are halted by their vanity—the universal human vanity
                        that is content with small triumphs, or with purely imaginary triumphs. But
                        she had a notable figure of the lank, serpentine kind and a bad, sensual
                        face that harmonized with it. Especially in artificial light she had an
                        uncanny allure of the elemental, the wild animal in the jungle. With every
                        disposition and effort to use her physical charms to further herself she
                        would not have been still struggling at twenty-eight, had she had so much as
                        a thimbleful of intelligence.
                    "Several times," said Sperry to Susan as they crossed Long
                        Acre together on the way to Rector's, "yes, at least half
                        a dozen times to my knowledge, Constance had had success right in her hands.
                        And every time she has gone crazy about some cheap actor or sport and has
                        thrown it away."
                    "But she'll get on now," said Susan.
                    "Perhaps," was Sperry's doubting reply.
                        "Of course, she's got no brains. But it doesn't
                        take brains to act—that is, to act well enough for cheap
                        machine-made plays like this. And nowadays playwrights have learned that
                        it's useless to try to get actors who can act. They try to write
                        parts that are actor-proof."
                    "You don't like your play?" said Susan.
                    "Like it? I love it. Isn't it going to bring me in a pot of
                        money? But as a play"—Sperry laughed. "I know
                        Spenser thinks it's great, but—there's only one
                        of us who can write plays, and that's Brent. It takes a clever man
                        to write a clever play. But it takes a genius to write a clever play
                        that'll draw the damn fools  who buy
                        theater seats. And Robert Brent now and then does the trick. How are you
                        getting on with your ambition for a career?"
                    Susan glanced nervously at him. The question, coming upon the heels of talk
                        about Brent, filled her with alarm lest Rod had broken his promise and had
                        betrayed her confidence. But Sperry's expression showed that she
                        was probably mistaken.
                    "My ambition?" said she.
                        "Oh—I've given it up."
                    "The thought of work was too much for you—eh?"
                    Susan shrugged her shoulders.
                    A sardonic grin flitted over Sperry's Punch-like face. "The
                        more I see of women, the less I think of 'em," said he.
                        "But I suppose the men'd be lazy and worthless too, if
                        nature had given 'em anything that'd sell or rent. . . .
                        Somehow I'm disappointed in you,
                        though."
                    That ended the conversation until they were sitting down at the table. Then
                        Sperry said:
                    "Are you offended by my frankness a while ago?"
                    "No," replied Susan. "The contrary. Some day your
                        saying that may help me."
                    "It's quite true, there's something about
                        you—a look—a manner—it makes one feel you could
                        do things if you tried."
                    "I'm afraid that 'something' is a
                        fraud," said she. No doubt it was that something that had misled
                        Brent—that had always deceived her about herself. No, she must not
                        think herself a self-deceived dreamer. Even if it was so, still she must not
                        think it. She must say to herself over and over again "Brent or no
                        Brent, I shall get on—I shall get on" until she had
                        silenced the last disheartening doubt.
                    
                    Miss Francklyn, with Fitzalan on her left and Spenser on her right, was
                        seated opposite Susan. About the time the third bottle was being emptied the
                        attempts of Spenser and Constance to conceal from her their doings became
                        absurd. Long before the supper was over there had been thrust at her all
                        manner of proofs that Spenser was again untrue, that he was whirling madly
                        in one of those cyclonic infatuations which soon wore him out and left him
                        to return contritely to her. Sperry admired Susan's manners as
                        displayed in her unruffled serenity—an admiration which she did not
                        in the least deserve. She was in fact as deeply interested as she seemed in
                        his discussion of plays and acting, illustrated by Brent's latest
                        production. By the time the party broke up, Susan had in spite of herself
                        collected a formidable array of incriminating evidence, including the
                        stealing of one of Constance's jeweled show garters by Spenser
                        under cover of the tablecloth and a swift kiss in the hall when Constance
                        went out for a moment and Spenser presently suspended his drunken praises of
                        himself as a dramatist, and appointed himself a committee to see what had
                        become of her.
                    At the door of the restaurant, Spenser said:
                    "Susan, you and Miss Francklyn take a taxicab. She'll drop
                        you at our place on her way home. Fitz and Sperry and I want one more
                        drink."
                    "Not for me," said Sperry savagely, with a scowl at
                        Constance. But Fitzalan, whose arm Susan had seen Rod press, remained
                        silent.
                    "Come on, my dear," cried Miss Francklyn, smiling sweet
                        insolent treachery into Susan's face.
                    Susan smiled sweetly back at her. As she was leaving the taxicab in
                        Forty-fifth Street, she said:
                    
                    "Send Rod home by noon, won't you? And don't tell
                        him I know."
                    Miss Francklyn, who had been drinking greedily, began to cry. Susan laughed.
                        "Don't be a silly," she urged. "If
                        I'm not upset, why should you be? And how could I blame you two for
                        getting crazy about each other? I wouldn't spoil it for worlds. I
                        want to help it on."
                    "Don't you love him—really?" cried
                        Constance, face and voice full of the most thrilling theatricalism.
                    "I'm very fond of him," replied Susan.
                        "We're old, old friends. But as to
                        love—I'm where you'll be a few months from
                        now."
                    Miss Francklyn dried her eyes. "Isn't it the
                        devil!" she exclaimed. "Why can't it last?"
                    "Why, indeed," said Susan. "Good
                        night—and don't forget to send him by twelve
                        o'clock." And she hurried up the steps without waiting for
                        a reply.
                    She felt that the time for action had again come—that critical
                        moment which she had so often in the past seen come and had let pass
                        unheeded. He was in love with another woman; he was prosperous, assured of a
                        good income for a long time, though he wrote no more successes. No need to
                        consider him. For herself, then—what? Clearly, there could be no
                        future for her with Rod. Clearly, she must go.
                    Must go—must take the only road that offered. Up before
                        her—as in every mood of deep depression—rose the vision of
                        the old women of the slums—the solitary, bent, broken forms, clad
                        in rags, feet wrapped in rags—shuffling along in the gutters,
                        peering and poking among filth, among garbage, to get together stuff to sell
                        for the price of a drink. The old women of the tenements, the old women of
                        the gutters, the old women  drunk and dancing
                        as the lecherous-eyed hunchback played the piano.
                    She must not this time wait and hesitate and hope; this time she must take
                        the road that offered—and since it must be taken she must advance
                        along it as if of all possible roads it was the only one she would have
                        freely chosen.
                    Yet after she had written and sent off the note to Palmer, a deep sadness
                        enveloped her—a grief, not for Rod, but for the association, the
                        intimacy, their life together, its sorrows and storms perhaps more than the
                        pleasures and the joys. When she left him before, she had gone sustained by
                        the feeling that she was doing it for him, was doing a duty. Now, she was
                        going merely to save herself, to further herself. Life, life in that great
                        and hard school of practical living, New York, had given her the necessary
                        hardiness to go, aided by Rod's unfaithfulness and growing
                        uncongeniality. But not while she lived could she ever learn to be hard. She
                        would do what she must—she was no longer a fool. But she could not
                        help sighing and crying a little as she did it.
                    It was not many minutes after noon when Spenser came. He looked so sheepish
                        and uncomfortable that Susan thought Constance had told him. But his opening
                        sentence of apology was:
                    "I took too many nightcaps and Fitz had to lug me home with
                        him."
                    "Really?" said Susan. "How disappointed Constance
                        must have been!"
                    Spenser was not a good liar. His face twisted and twitched so that Susan
                        laughed outright. "Why, you look like a caught married
                        man," cried she. "You forget we're both
                        free."
                    
                    "Whatever put that crazy notion in your head—about Miss
                        Francklyn?" demanded he.
                    "When you take me or anyone for that big a fool, Rod, you only show
                        how foolish you yourself are," said she with the utmost good humor.
                        "The best way to find out how much sense a person has is to see
                        what kind of lies he thinks'll deceive another
                        person."
                    "Now—don't get jealous, Susie," soothed
                        he. "You know how a man is."
                    The tone was correctly contrite, but Susan felt underneath the confidence
                        that he would be forgiven—the confidence of the egotist giddied by
                        a triumph. Said she:
                    "Don't you think mine's a strange way of acting
                        jealous?"
                    "But you're a strange woman."
                    Susan looked at him thoughtfully. "Yes, I suppose I am,"
                        said she. "And you'll think me stranger when I tell you
                        what I'm going to do."
                    He started up in a panic. And the fear in his eyes pleased her, at the same
                        time that it made her wince.
                    She nodded slowly. "Yes, Rod—I'm
                        leaving."
                    "I'll drop Constance," cried he.
                        "I'll have her put out of the company."
                    "No—go on with her till you've got
                        enough—or she has."
                    "I've got enough, this minute," declared he with
                        convincing energy and passion. "You must know, dearest, that to me
                        Constance—all the women I've ever
                        seen—aren't worth your little finger. You're all
                        that they are, and a whole lot more besides." He seized her in his
                        arms. "You wouldn't leave me—you
                        couldn't! You understand how men are—how they get these
                        fits of craziness about a pair of eyes or a figure or some  trick of voice or manner. But that
                        doesn't affect the man's heart. I love you, Susan. I adore
                        you."
                    She did not let him see how sincerely he had touched her. Her eyes were of
                        their deepest violet, but he had never learned that sign. She smiled
                        mockingly; the fingers that caressed his hair were trembling.
                        "We've tided each other over, Rod. The play's a
                        success. You're all right again—and so am I.
                        Now's the time to part."
                    "Is it Brent, Susie?"
                    "I quit him last week."
                    "There's no one else. You're going because of
                        Constance!"
                    She did not deny. "You're free—and so am
                        I," said she practically. "I'm going.
                        So—let's part sensibly. Don't make a silly
                        scene."
                    She knew how to deal with him—how to control him through his vanity.
                        He drew away from her, chilled and sullen. "If you can live through
                        it, I guess I can," said he. "You're making a
                        damn fool of yourself-leaving a man that's fond of you—and
                        leaving when he's successful."
                    "I always was a fool, you know," said she. She had decided
                        against explaining to him and so opening up endless and vain argument. It
                        was enough that she saw it was impossible to build upon or with him, saw the
                        necessity of trying elsewhere—unless she would risk—no,
                        invite—finding herself after a few months, or years, back among the
                        drift, back in the underworld.
                    He gazed at her as she stood smiling gently at him—smiling to help
                        her hide the ache at her heart, the terror before the vision of the old
                        women of the tenement gutters, earning the wages, not of sin, not of vice,
                        not of stupidity, but of indecision, of overhopefulness—of  weakness. Here was the kind of smile that
                        hurts worse than tears, that takes the place of tears and sobs and moans.
                        But he who had never understood her did not understand her now. Her smile
                        infuriated his vanity. "You can laugh!"
                        he sneered. "Well—go to the filth where you belong! You
                        were born for it." And he flung out of the room, went noisily down
                        the stairs. She heard the front door's distant slam; it seemed to
                        drop her into a chair. She sat there all crouched together until the clock
                        on the mantel struck two. This roused her hastily to gather into her trunk
                        such of her belongings as she had not already packed. She sent for a cab.
                        The man of all work carried down the trunk and put it on the box. Dressed in
                        a simple blue costume as if for traveling, she entered the cab and gave the
                        order to drive to the Grand Central Station.
                    At the corner she changed the order and was presently entering the Beaux Arts
                        restaurant where she had asked Freddie to meet her. He was there, smoking
                        calmly and waiting. At sight of her he rose. "You'll have
                        lunch?" said he.
                    "No, thanks."
                    "A small bottle of champagne?"
                    "Yes—I'm rather tired."
                    He ordered the champagne. "And," said he,
                        "it'll be the real thing—which mighty few New
                        Yorkers get—even at the best places." When it came he sent
                        the waiter away and filled the glasses himself. He touched the brim of his
                        glass to the bottom of hers. "To the new deal," said
                        he.
                    She smiled and nodded, and emptied the glass. Suddenly it came to her why she
                        felt so differently toward him. She saw the subtle, yet radical change that
                        always transforms a man of force of character when his  position in the world notably changes. This man before her, so
                        slightly different in physical characteristics from the man she had fled,
                        was wholly different in expression.
                    "When shall we sail?" asked he.
                        "Tomorrow?"
                    "First—there's the question of money,"
                        said she.
                    He was much amused. "Still worrying about your
                        independence."
                    "No," replied she. "I've been thinking it
                        out, and I don't feel any anxiety about that. I've changed
                        my scheme of life. I'm going to be sensible and practice what life
                        has taught me. It seems there's only one way for a woman to get up.
                        Through some man."
                    Freddie nodded. "By marriage or otherwise, but always through a
                        man."
                    "So I've discovered," continued she. "So,
                        I'm going to play the game. And I think I can win now. With the aid
                        of what I'll learn and with the chances I'll have, I can
                        keep my feeling of independence. You see, if you and I don't get on
                        well together, I'll be able to look out for myself.
                        Something'll turn up."
                    "Or—somebody—eh?"
                    "Or somebody."
                    "That's candid."
                    "Don't you want me to be candid? But even if you
                        don't, I've got to be."
                    "Yes—truth—especially disagreeable
                        truth—is your long suit," said he. "Not that
                        I'm kicking. I'm glad you went straight at the money
                        question. We can settle it and never think of it again. And neither of us
                        will be plotting to take advantage of the other, or fretting for fear the
                        other is plotting. Sometimes I think nearly all the trouble in this world
                        comes through  failure to have a clear
                        understanding about money matters."
                    Susan nodded. Said she thoughtfully, "I guess that's why I
                        came—one of the main reasons. You are wonderfully sensible and
                        decent about money."
                    "And the other chap isn't?"
                    "Oh, yes—and no. He likes to make a woman feel dependent.
                        He thinks—but that doesn't matter. He's all
                        right."
                    "Now—for our understanding with each other," said
                        Palmer. "You can have whatever you want. The other day you said you
                        wanted some sort of a salary. But if you've
                        changed—"
                    "No—that's what I want."
                    "So much a year?"
                    "So much a week," replied she. "I want to feel,
                        and I want you to feel, that we can call it off at any time on seven
                        days' notice."
                    "But that isn't what I want," said he—and
                        she, watching him closely if furtively, saw the strong lines deepen round
                        his mouth.
                    She hesitated. She was seeing the old woman's dance hall, was
                        hearing the piano as the hunchback played and the old horrors reeled about,
                        making their palsy rhythmic. She was seeing this, yet she dared.
                        "Then you don't want me," said she, so quietly
                        that he could not have suspected her agitation. Never had her habit of
                        concealing her emotion been so useful to her.
                    He sat frowning at his glass—debating. Finally he said:
                    "I explained the other day what I was aiming for. Such an
                        arrangement as you suggest wouldn't help. You see
                        that?"
                    "It's all I can do—at present," replied
                        she firmly.  And she was now ready to stand or
                        fall by that decision. She had always accepted the other previous
                        terms—or whatever terms fate offered. Result—each time,
                        disaster. She must make no more fatal blunders. This time, her own terms or
                        not at all.
                    He was silent a long time. She knew she had convinced him that her terms were
                        final. So, his delay could only mean that he was debating whether to accept
                        or to go his way and leave her to go hers. At last he laughed and said:
                    "You've become a true New Yorker. You know how to drive a
                        hard bargain." He looked at her admiringly. "You certainly
                        have got courage. I happen to know a lot about your affairs. I've
                        ways of finding out things. And I know you'd not be here if you
                        hadn't broken with the other fellow first. So, if I turned your
                        proposition down you'd be up against it—wouldn't
                        you?"
                    "Yes," said she. "But—I won't in
                        any circumstances tie myself. I must be free."
                    "You're right," said he. "And
                        I'll risk your sticking. I'm a good gambler."
                    "If I were bound, but didn't want to stay, would I be of
                        much use?"
                    "Of no use. You can quit on seven minutes' notice, instead
                        of seven days."
                    "And you, also," said she.
                    Laughingly they shook hands. She began to like him in a new and more
                        promising way. Here was a man, who at least was cast in a big mold. Nothing
                        small and cheap about him—and Brent had made small cheap men
                        forever intolerable to her. Yes, here was a man of the big sort; and a big
                        man couldn't possibly be a bad man. No matter how many bad things
                        he  might do, he would still be himself, at
                        least, a scorner of the pettiness and sneakiness and cowardice inseparable
                        from villainy.
                    "And now," said he, "let's settle the
                        last detail. How much a week? How would five hundred strike
                        you?"
                    "That's more than twelve times the largest salary I ever
                        got. It's many times as much as I made in
                        the—"
                    "No matter," he hastily interposed. "It's
                        the least you can hold down the job on. You've got to spend
                        money—for clothes and so on."
                    "Two hundred is the most I can take," said she.
                        "It's the outside limit."
                    He insisted, but she remained firm. "I will not accustom myself to
                        much more than I see any prospect of getting elsewhere," explained
                        she. "Perhaps later on I'll ask for an
                        increase—later on, when I see how things are going and what my
                        prospects elsewhere would be. But I must begin modestly."
                    "Well, let it go at two hundred for the present. I'll
                        deposit a year's salary in a bank, and you can draw against it. Is
                        that satisfactory? You don't want me to hand you two hundred
                        dollars every Saturday, do you?"
                    "No. That would get on my nerves," said she.
                    "Now—it's all settled. When shall we
                        sail?"
                    "There's a girl I've got to look up before I
                        go."
                    "Maud? You needn't bother about her. She's married
                        to a piker from up the state—a shoe manufacturer. She's
                        got a baby, and is fat enough to make two or three like what she used to
                        be."
                    "No, not Maud. One you don't know."
                    
                    "I hoped we could sail tomorrow. Why not take a taxi and go after
                        her now?"
                    "It may be a long search."
                    "She's a—?" He did not need to finish his
                        sentence in order to make himself understood.
                    Susan nodded.
                    "Oh, let her—"
                    "I promised," interrupted she.
                    "Then—of course." Freddie drew from his trousers
                        pocket a huge roll of bills. Susan smiled at this proof that he still
                        retained the universal habit of gamblers, politicians and similar loose
                        characters of large income, precariously derived. He counted off three
                        hundreds and four fifties and held them out to her. "Let me in on
                        it," said he.
                    Susan took the money without hesitation. She was used to these careless
                        generosities of the men of that class—generosities passing with
                        them and with the unthinking for evidences of goodness of heart, when in
                        fact no generosity has any significance whatever beyond selfish vanity
                        unless it is a sacrifice of necessities—real necessities.
                    "I don't think I'll need money," said
                        she. "But I may."
                    "You've got a trunk and a bag on the cab outside,"
                        he went on. "I've told them at Sherry's that
                        I'm to be married."
                    Susan flushed. She hastily lowered her eyes. But she need not have feared
                        lest he should suspect the cause of the blush . . . a strange, absurd
                        resentment of the idea that she could be married to Freddie Palmer. Live
                        with him—yes. But marry—now that it was thus squarely
                        presented to her, she found it unthinkable. She did not pause to analyze
                        this feeling,  indeed could not have analyzed
                        it, had she tried. It was, however, a most interesting illustration of how
                        she had been educated at last to look upon questions of sex as a man looks
                        on them. She was like the man who openly takes a mistress whom he in no
                        circumstances would elevate to the position of wife.
                    "So," he proceeded, "you might as well move in at
                        Sherry's."
                    "No," objected she. "Let's not begin the
                        new deal until we sail."
                    The wisdom of this was obvious. "Then we'll take your
                        things over to the Manhattan Hotel," said he. "And
                        we'll start the search from there."
                    But after registering at the Manhattan as Susan Lenox, she started out alone.
                        She would not let him look in upon any part of her life which she could keep
                        veiled.
                
                
                
                    XIX
                    
                        SHE left the taxicab at the corner of Grand Street and the
                        Bowery, and plunged into her former haunts afoot. Once again she had it
                        forced upon her how meaningless in the life history are the words
                        "time" and "space." She was now hardly
                        any distance, as measurements go, from her present world, and she had lived
                        here only a yesterday or so ago. Yet what an infinity yawned between! At the
                        Delancey Street apartment house there was already a new janitress, and the
                        kinds of shops on the ground floor had changed. Only after two hours of
                        going up and down stairs, of knocking at doors, of questioning and
                        cross-questioning, did she discover that Clara had moved to Allen Street, to
                        the tenement in which Susan herself had for a few weeks lived—those
                        vague, besotted weeks of despair.
                    When we go out into the streets with bereavement in mind, we see nothing but
                        people dressed in mourning. And a similar thing occurs, whatever the emotion
                        that oppresses us. It would not have been strange if Susan, on the way to
                        Allen Street afoot, had seen only women of the streets, for they swarm in
                        every great thorough-fare of our industrial cities. They used to come out
                        only at night. But with the passing of the feeling against them that existed
                        when they were a rare, unfamiliar, mysteriously terrible minor feature of
                        life, they issue forth boldly by day, like all the other classes, making a
                        living as best they can. But on that day Susan felt as if she were seeing
                        only the broken down and cast-out creatures of the class—the old
                        women, old  in body rather than in years,
                        picking in the gutters, fumbling in the garbage barrels, poking and peering
                        everywhere for odds and ends that might pile up into the price of a glass of
                        the poison sold in the barrel houses. The old women—the hideous,
                        lonely old women—and the diseased, crippled children, worse off
                        than the cats and the dogs, for cat and dog were not compelled to wear
                        filth-soaked rags. Prosperous, civilized New York!
                    A group of these children were playing some rough game, in imitation of their
                        elders, that was causing several to howl with pain. She heard a woman, being
                        shown about by a settlement worker or some such person, say:
                    "Really, not at all badly dressed—for street games. I must
                        confess I don't see signs of the misery they talk so much
                        about."
                    A wave of fury passed through Susan. She felt like striking the woman full in
                        her vain, supercilious, patronizing face—striking her and saying:
                        "You smug liar! What if you had to wear such clothes on that fat,
                        overfed body of yours! You'd realize then how filthy they
                        are!"
                    She gazed in horror at the Allen Street house. Was it possible that she had lived there? In the filthy door-way sat a child
                        eating a dill pickle—a scrawny, ragged little girl with much of her
                        hair eaten out by the mange. She recalled this little girl as the formerly
                        pretty and lively youngster, the daughter of the janitress. She went past
                        the child without disturbing her, knocked at the janitress' door.
                        It presently opened, disclosing in a small and foul room four prematurely
                        old women, all in the family way, two with babies in arms. One of these was
                        the janitress. Though she was not a Jewess, 
                        she was wearing one of the wigs assumed by orthodox Jewish women when they
                        marry. She stared at Susan with not a sign of recognition.
                    "I am looking for Miss Clara," said Susan.
                    The janitress debated, shifted her baby from one arm to the other, glanced
                        inquiringly at the other women. They shook their heads; she looked at Susan
                        and shook her head. "There ain't a Clara," said
                        she. "Perhaps she's took another name?"
                    "Perhaps," conceded Susan. And she described Clara and the
                        various dresses she had had. At the account of one with flounces on the
                        skirts and lace puffs in the sleeves, the youngest of the women showed a
                        gleam of intelligence. "You mean the girl with the cancer of the
                        breast," said she.
                    "Susan remembered. She could not articulate; she nodded.
                    "Oh, yes," said the janitress. "She had the third
                        floor back, and was always kicking because Mrs. Pfister kept a guinea pig
                        for her rheumatism and the smell came through."
                    "Has she gone?" asked Susan.
                    "Couple of weeks."
                    "Where?"
                    The janitress shrugged her shoulders. The other women shrugged their
                        shoulders. Said the janitress:
                    "Her feller stopped coming. The cancer got awful bad. I've
                        saw a good many—they're quite plentiful down this way. I
                        never see a worse'n hers. She didn't have no money. Up to
                        the hospital they tried a new cure on her that made her gallopin'
                        worse. The day before I was going to have to go to work and put her
                        out—she left."
                    "Can't you give me any idea?" urged Susan.
                    
                    "She didn't take her things," said the janitress
                        meaningly. "Not a stitch."
                    "The—the river?"
                    The janitress shrugged her shoulders. "She always said she would,
                        and I guess—"
                    Again the fat, stooped shoulders lifted and lowered. "She was most
                        crazy with pain."
                    There was a moment's silence, then Susan murmured, "Thank
                        you," and went back to the hall. The house was exhaling a frightful
                        stench—the odor of cheap kerosene, of things that passed there for
                        food, of animals human and lower, of death and decay. On her way out she
                        dropped a dollar into the lap of the little girl with the mange. A parrot
                        was shrieking from an upper window. On the topmost fire escape was a row of
                        geraniums blooming sturdily. Her taxicab had moved up the street, pushed out
                        of place by a hearse—a white hearse, with polished mountings, the
                        horses caparisoned in white netting, and tossing white plumes. A
                        baby's funeral—this mockery of a ride in state after a
                        brief life of squalor. It was summer, and the babies were dying like lambs
                        in the shambles. In winter the grown people were slaughtered; in summer the
                        children. Across the street, a few doors up, the city dead wagon was taking
                        away another body—in a plain pine box—to the
                        Potter's Field where find their way for the final rest one in every
                        ten of the people of the rich and splendid city of New York.
                    Susan hurried into her cab. "Drive fast," she said.
                    When she came back to sense of her surroundings she was flying up wide and
                        airy Fifth Avenue with gorgeous sunshine bathing its palaces, with wealth
                        and fashion and ease all about her. Her dear City of the Sun! But it hurt
                        her now, was hateful to look upon.  She closed
                        her eyes; her life in the slums, her life when she was sharing the lot that
                        is really the lot of the human race as a race, passed before
                        her—its sights and sounds and odors, its hideous heat, its still
                        more hideous cold, its contacts and associations, its dirt and disease and
                        degradation. And through the roar of the city there came to her a sound,
                        faint yet intense—like the still, small voice the prophet
                        heard—but not the voice of God, rather the voice of the multitude
                        of aching hearts, aching in hopeless poverty—hearts of men, of
                        women, of children—
                    The children! The multitudes of children with hearts that no sooner begin to
                        beat than they begin to ache. She opened her eyes to shut out these sights
                        and that sound of heartache.
                    She gazed round, drew a long breath of relief. She had almost been afraid to
                        look round lest she should find that her escape had been only a dream. And
                        now the road she had chosen—or, rather, the only road she could
                        take—the road with Freddie Palmer—seemed attractive, even
                        dazzling. What she could not like, she would ignore—and how easily
                        she, after her experience, could do that! What she could not ignore she
                        would tolerate—would compel herself to like.
                    Poor Clara!—Happy Clara!—better off in the dregs of the
                        river than she had ever been in the dregs of New York. She shuddered. Then,
                        as so often, the sense of the grotesque thrust in, as out of place as jester
                        in cap and bells at a bier—and she smiled sardonically.
                        "Why," thought she, "in being squeamish about
                        Freddie I'm showing that I'm more respectable than the
                        respectable women. There's hardly one of them that doesn't
                        swallow worse doses with less excuse or no excuse at all—and
                        without so much as a wry face."
                
                
                
                    XX
                    
                        IN the ten days on the Atlantic and the Mediterranean Mr.
                        and Mrs. Palmer, as the passenger list declared them, planned the early
                        stages of their campaign. They must keep to themselves, must make no
                        acquaintances, no social entanglements of any kind, until they had effected
                        the exterior transformation which was to be the first stride—and a
                        very long one, they felt—toward the conquest of the world that
                        commands all the other worlds. Several men aboard knew Palmer
                        slightly—knew him vaguely as a big politician and contractor. They
                        had a hazy notion that he was reputed to have been a thug and a grafter. But
                        New Yorkers have few prejudices except against guilelessness and failure.
                        They are well aware that the wisest of the wise Hebrew race was never more
                        sagacious than when he observed that "he who hasteth to be rich
                        shall not be innocent." They are too well used to unsavory pasts to
                        bother much about that kind of odor; and where in the civilized
                        world—or in that which is not civilized—is there an odor
                        from reputation—or character—whose edge is not taken off
                        by the strong, sweet, hypnotic perfume of money? Also, Palmer's
                        appearance gave the lie direct to any scandal about him. It could not
                        be—it simply could not be—that a man of such splendid
                        physical build, a man with a countenance so handsome, had ever been a low,
                        wicked fellow! Does not the devil always at once exhibit his hoofs, horns,
                        tail and malevolent smile, that all men may know who and what he is? A
                        frank, manly  young leader of
                        men—that was the writing on his countenance. And his Italian blood
                        put into his good looks an ancient and aristocratic delicacy that made it
                        incredible that he was of low origin. He spoke good English, he dressed
                        quietly; he did not eat with his knife; he did not retire behind a napkin to
                        pick his teeth, but attended to them openly, if necessity
                        compelled—and splendid teeth they were, set in a wide, clean mouth,
                        notably attractive for a man's. No, Freddie Palmer's past
                        would not give him any trouble whatever; in a few years it would be
                        forgotten, would be romanced about as the heroic struggles of a typical
                        American rising from poverty.
                    "Thank God," said Freddie, "I had sense enough not
                        to get a jail smell on me!"
                    Susan colored painfully—and Palmer, the sensitive, colored also. But
                        he had the tact that does not try to repair a blunder by making a worse one;
                        he pretended not to see Susan's crimson flush.
                    
                        Her past would not be an easy matter—if it should
                        ever rise to face her publicly. Therefore it must not rise till Freddie and
                        she were within the walls of the world they purposed to enter by stealth,
                        and had got themselves well intrenched. Then she would be Susan Lenox of
                        Sutherland, Indiana, who had come to New York to study for the stage and,
                        after many trials from all of which she had emerged with unspotted virtue,
                        whatever vicious calumny might in envy say, had captured the heart and the
                        name of the handsome, rich young contractor. There would be nasty rumors,
                        dreadful stories, perhaps. But in these loose and cynical days, with the
                        women more and more audacious and independent, with the universal craving
                        for luxury beyond the reach of laboriously earned incomes, with marriage  decaying in city life among the better
                        classes—in these easy-going days, who was not suspected, hinted
                        about, attacked? And the very atrociousness of the stories would prevent
                        their being believed. One glance at Susan would be enough to make doubters
                        laugh at their doubts.
                    The familiar types of fast women of all degrees come from the poorest kinds
                        of farms and from the tenements. In America, practically not until the
                        panics and collapses of recent years which have tumbled another and better
                        section of the middle class into the abyss of the underworld—not
                        until then did there appear in the city streets and houses of ill repute any
                        considerable number of girls from good early surroundings. Before that time,
                        the clamor for luxury—the luxury that civilization makes as much a
                        necessity as food—had been satisfied more or less by the incomes of
                        the middle class; and any girl of that class, with physical charm and
                        shrewdness enough to gain a living as outcast woman, was either supported at
                        home or got a husband able to give her at least enough of what her tastes
                        craved to keep her in the ranks of the reputable. Thus Susan's
                        beauty of refinement, her speech and manner of the lady, made absurd any
                        suggestion that she could ever have been a fallen woman. The crimson splash
                        of her rouged lips did not suggest the cocotte, but the
                        lady with a dash of gayety in her temperament. This, because of the sweet,
                        sensitive seriousness of her small, pallid face with its earnest violet-gray
                        eyes and its frame of abundant dark hair, simply and gracefully arranged.
                        She was of the advance guard of a type which the swift downfall of the
                        middle class, the increasing intelligence and restlessness and love of
                        luxury among women, and the decay of formal religion with its  exactions of chastity as woman's one
                        diamond-fine jewel, are now making familiar in every city. The demand for
                        the luxurious comfort which the educated regard as merely decent existence
                        is far outstripping the demand for, and the education of, women in lucrative
                        occupations other than prostitution.
                    Luckily Susan had not been arrested under her own name; there existed no
                        court record which could be brought forward as proof by some nosing
                        newspaper.
                    Susan herself marveled that there was not more trace of her underworld
                        experience in her face and in her mind. She could not account for it. Yet
                        the matter was simple enough to one viewing it from the outside. It is what
                        we think, what we feel about ourselves, that makes up our expression of body
                        and soul. And never in her lowest hour had her soul struck its flag and
                        surrendered to the idea that she was a fallen creature. She had a
                        temperament that estimated her acts not as right and wrong but as necessity.
                        Men, all the rest of the world, might regard her as nothing but sex symbol;
                        she regarded herself as an intelligence. And the filth slipped from her and
                        could not soak in to change the texture of her being. She had no more the
                        feeling or air of the cocotte than has the married woman
                        who lives with her husband for a living. Her expression, her way of looking
                        at her fellow beings and of meeting their looks, was that of the woman of
                        the world who is for whatever reason above that slavery to opinion, that
                        fear of being thought bold or forward which causes women of the usual run to
                        be sensitive about staring or being stared at. Sometimes—in cocottes, in stage women, in fashionable
                        women—this expression is self-conscious, or supercilious. It was
                        not so with Susan, for she had little self-consciousness and no snobbishness
                             at all. It merely gave the charm of
                        worldly experience and expertness to a beauty which, without it, might have
                        been too melancholy.
                    Susan, become by sheer compulsion philosopher about the vagaries of fate, did
                        not fret over possible future dangers. She dismissed them and put all her
                        intelligence and energy to the business in hand—to learning and to
                        helping Palmer learn the ways of that world which includes all worlds.
                    Toward the end of the voyage she said to him:
                    "About my salary—or allowance—or whatever it
                        is— I've been thinking things over. I've made up
                        my mind to save some money. My only chance is that salary. Have you any
                        objection to my saving it—as much of it as I can?"
                    He laughed. "Tuck away anything and everything you can lay your
                        hands on," said he. "I'm not one of those fools
                        who try to hold women by being close and small with them. I'd not
                        want you about if you were of the sort that could be held that
                        way."
                    "No—I'll put by only from my salary,"
                        said she. "I admit I've no right to do that. But
                        I've become sensible enough to realize that I mustn't ever
                        risk being out again with no money. It has got on my mind so that
                        I'd not be able to think of much else for worrying—unless
                        I had at least a little."
                    "Do you want me to make you independent?"
                    "No," replied she. "Whatever you gave me
                        I'd have to give back if we separated."
                    "That isn't the way to get on, my
                        dear," said he.
                    "It's the best I can do—as yet," replied
                        she. "And it's quite an advance on what I was. Yes, I am learning—slowly."
                    "Save all your salary, then," said Freddie. "When
                             you buy anything charge it, and
                        I'll attend to the bill."
                    Her expression told him that he had never made a shrewder move in his life.
                        He knew he had made himself secure against losing her; for he knew what a
                        force gratitude was in her character.
                    Her mind was now free—free for the educational business in hand. She
                        appreciated that he had less to learn than she. Civilization, the science
                        and art of living, of extracting all possible good from the few swift years
                        of life, has been—since the downfall of woman from hardship, ten or
                        fifteen thousand years ago—the creation of the man almost entirely.
                        Until recently among the higher races such small development of the
                        intelligence of woman as her seclusion and servitude permitted was sporadic
                        and exotic. Nothing intelligent was expected of her—and it is only
                        under the compulsion of peremptory demand that any human being ever is
                        roused from the natural sluggishness. But civilization, created by man, was created for woman. Woman has to
                        learn how to be the civilized being which man has ordained that she shall
                        be—how to use for man's comfort and pleasure the
                        ingenuities and the graces he has invented.
                    It is easy for a man to pick up the habits, tastes, manners and dress of male
                        citizens of the world, if he has as keen eyes and as discriminating taste as
                        had Palmer, clever descendant of the supple Italian. But to become a female
                        citizen of the world is not so easy. For Susan to learn to be an example of
                        the highest civilization, from her inmost thoughts to the outer-most
                        penumbra of her surroundings—that would be for her a labor of love,
                        but still a labor. As her vanity was of the kind that centers on the
                        advantages she actually had, instead of being the more familiar kind  that centers upon non-existent charms of mind
                        and person, her task was possible of accomplishment—for those who
                        are sincerely willing to learn, who sincerely know wherein they lack, can
                        learn, can be taught. As she had given these matters of civilization
                        intelligent thought she knew where to begin—at the humble, material
                        foundation, despised and neglected by those who talk most loudly about
                        civilization, art, culture, and so on. They aspire to the clouds and the
                        stars at once—and arrive nowhere except in talk and pretense and
                        flaunting of ill-fitting borrowed plumage. They flap their gaudy artificial
                        wings; there is motion, but no ascent. Susan wished to build—and
                        build solidly. She began with the so-called trifles.
                    When they had been at Naples a week Palmer said:
                    "Don't you think we'd better push on to
                        Paris?"
                    "I can't go before Saturday," replied she.
                        "I've got several fittings yet."
                    "It's pretty dull here for me—with you spending so
                        much time in the shops. I suppose the women's shops are
                        good"—hesitatingly—"but I've
                        heard those in Paris are better."
                    "The shops here are rotten. Italian women have no taste in dress.
                        And the Paris shops are the best in the world."
                    "Then let's clear out," cried he.
                        "I'm bored to death. But I didn't like to say
                        anything, you seemed so busy."
                    "I am busy. And—can you stand it three days
                        more?"
                    "But you'll only have to throw away the stuff you buy here.
                        Why buy so much?"
                    "I'm not buying much. Two ready-to-wear Paris
                        dresses—models they call them—and two hats."
                    
                    Palmer looked alarmed. "Why, at that rate," protested he,
                        "it'll take you all winter to get together your winter
                        clothes, and no time left to wear 'em."
                    "You don't understand," said she. "If you
                        want to be treated right in a shop—be shown the best
                        things—have your orders attended to, you've got to come
                        looking as if you knew what the best is. I'm getting ready to make
                        a good first impression on the dress-makers and milliners in
                        Paris."
                    "Oh, you'll have the money, and that'll make
                        'em step round."
                    "Don't you believe it," replied she. "All
                        the money in the world won't get you fashionable
                        clothes at the most fashionable place. It'll only get you costly clothes."
                    "Maybe that's so for women's things. It
                        isn't for men's."
                    "I'm not sure of that. When we get to Paris, we'll
                        see. But certainly it's true for women. If I went to the places in
                        the rue de la Paix dressed as I am now, it'd take several years to
                        convince them that I knew what I wanted and wouldn't be satisfied
                        with anything but the latest and best. So I'm having these
                        miserable dressmakers fit those dresses on me until they're
                        absolutely perfect. It's wearing me out, but I'll be glad
                        I did it"
                    Palmer had profound respect for her as a woman who knew what she was about.
                        So he settled himself patiently and passed the time investigating the famous
                        Neapolitan political machine with the aid of an interpreter guide whom he
                        hired by the day. He was enthusiastic over the dresses and the hats when
                        Susan at last had them at the hotel and showed herself to him in them. They
                        certainly did work an amazing  change in her.
                        They were the first real Paris models she had ever worn.
                    "Maybe it's because I never thought much about
                        women's clothes before," said Freddie, "but those
                        things seem to be the best ever. How they do show up your complexion and
                        your figure! And I hadn't any idea your hair was as grand as all
                        that. I'm a little afraid of you. We've got to get
                        acquainted all over again. These clothes of mine look pretty poor,
                        don't they? Yet I paid all kinds of money for 'em at the
                        best place in Fifth Avenue."
                    He examined her from all points of view, going round and round her, getting
                        her to walk up and down to give him the full effect of her slender yet
                        voluptuous figure in that beautifully fitted coat and skirt. He felt that
                        his dreams were beginning to come true.
                    "We'll do the trick!" cried he.
                        "Don't you think about money when you're buying
                        clothes. It's a joy to give up for clothes for you. You make
                        'em look like something."
                    "Wait till I've shopped a few weeks in Paris,"
                        said Susan.
                    "Let's start tonight," cried he.
                        "I'll telegraph to the Ritz for rooms."
                    When she began to dress in her old clothes for the journey, he protested.
                        "Throw all these things away," he urged. "Wear
                        one of the new dresses and hats."
                    "But they're not exactly suitable for
                        traveling."
                    "People'll think you lost your baggage. I don't
                        want ever to see you again looking any way except as you ought to
                        look."
                    "No, I must take care of those clothes," said she firmly.
                        "It'll be weeks before I can get anything in Paris, and I
                        must keep up a good front."
                    
                    He continued to argue with her until it occurred to him that as his own
                        clothes were not what they should be, he and she would look much better
                        matched if she dressed as she wished. He had not been so much in jest as he
                        thought when he said to her that they would have to get acquainted all over
                        again. Those new clothes of hers brought out startlingly—so clearly
                        that even his vanity was made uneasy—the subtle yet profound
                        difference of class between them. He had always felt this difference, and in
                        the old days it had given him many a savage impulse to degrade her, to put
                        her beneath him as a punishment for his feeling that she was above him. Now
                        he had his ambition too close at heart to wish to rob her of her chief
                        distinction; he was disturbed about it, though, and looked forward to Paris
                        with uneasiness.
                    "You must help me get my things," said he.
                    "I'd be glad to," said she. "And you must
                        be frank with me, and tell me where I fall short of the best of the women we
                        see."
                    He laughed. The idea that he could help her seemed fantastic. He could not
                        understand it—how this girl who had been brought up in a jay town
                        away out West, who had never had what might be called a real chance to get
                        in the know in New York, could so quickly pass him who had been born and
                        bred in New York, had spent the last ten years in cultivating style and all
                        the other luxurious tastes. He did not like to linger on this puzzle; the
                        more he worked at it, the farther away from him Susan seemed to get. Yet the
                        puzzle would not let him drop it.
                    They came in at the Gare de Lyon in the middle of a beautiful October
                        afternoon. Usually, from late September or earlier until May or later, Paris
                        has  about the vilest climate that curses a
                        civilized city. It is one of the bitterest ironies of fate that a people so
                        passionately fond of the sun, of the outdoors, should be doomed for
                        two-thirds of the year to live under leaden, icily leaking skies with rarely
                        a ray of real sunshine. And nothing so well illustrates the exuberant
                        vitality, the dauntless spirit of the French people, as the way they have
                        built in preparation for the enjoyment of every bit of the light and warmth
                        of any chance ray of sunshine. That year it so fell that the winter rains
                        did not close in until late, and Paris reveled in a long autumn of almost
                        New York perfection. Susan and Palmer drove to the Ritz through Paris, the
                        lovely, the gay.
                    "This is the real thing—isn't it?" said
                        he, thrilled into speech by that spectacle so inspiring to all who have the
                        joy of life in their veins—the Place de l'Opéra late on a
                        bright afternoon.
                    "It's the first thing I've ever seen that was
                        equal to what I had dreamed about it," replied she.
                    They had chosen the Ritz as their campaign head-quarters because they had
                        learned that it was the most fashionable hotel in Paris—which meant
                        in the world. There were hotels more grand, the interpreter-guide at Naples
                        had said; there were hotels more exclusive. There were even hotels more
                        comfortable. "But for fashion," said he, "it is
                        the summit. There you see the most beautiful ladies, most beautifully
                        dressed. There you see the elegant world at tea and at dinner."
                    At first glance they were somewhat disappointed in the quiet, unostentatious
                        general rooms. The suite assigned them—at a hundred and twenty
                        francs a day—was comfortable, was the most comfortable assemblage
                             of rooms either had ever seen. But there
                        was nothing imposing. This impression did not last long, however. They had
                        been misled by their American passion for looks. They soon discovered that
                        the guide at Naples had told the literal truth. They went down for tea in
                        the garden, which was filled as the day was summer warm. Neither spoke as
                        they sat under a striped awning umbrella, she with tea untasted before her,
                        he with a glass of whiskey and soda he did not lift from the little table.
                        Their eyes and their thoughts were too busy for speech; one cannot talk when
                        one is thinking. About them were people of the world of which neither had
                        before had any but a distant glimpse. They heard English, American, French,
                        Italian. They saw men and women with that air which no one can define yet
                        everyone knows on sight—the assurance without impertinence, the
                        politeness without formality, the simplicity that is more complex than the
                        most elaborate ornamentation of dress or speech or manner. Susan and Freddie
                        lingered until the departure of the last couple—a plainly dressed
                        man whose clothes on inspection revealed marvels of fineness and harmonious
                        color; a quietly dressed woman whose costume from tip of plume to tip of
                        suède slipper was a revelation of how fine a fine art the toilet can be
                        made.
                    "Well—we're right in it, for sure," said
                        Freddie, dropping to a sofa in their suite and lighting a cigarette.
                    "Yes," said Susan, with a sigh. "In
                        it—but not of it."
                    "I almost lost my nerve as I sat there. And for the life of me I
                        can't tell why."
                    "Those people know how," replied Susan.
                        "Well—what they've learned we can
                        learn."
                    
                    "Sure," said he energetically. "It's
                        going to take a lot of practice—a lot of time. But I'm
                        game." His expression, its suggestion of helplessness and appeal,
                        was a clear confession of a feeling that she was his superior.
                    "We're both of us ignorant," she hastened to say.
                        "But when we get our bearings—in a day or
                        two—we'll be all right."
                    "Let's have dinner up here in the sitting-room. I
                        haven't got the nerve to face that gang again today."
                    "Nonsense!" laughed she. "We mustn't give
                        way to our feelings—not for a minute. There'll be a lot of
                        people as badly off as we are. I saw some this afternoon—and from
                        the way the waiters treated them, I know they had money or something. Put on
                        your evening suit, and you'll be all right. I'm the one
                        that hasn't anything to wear. But I've got to go and study
                        the styles. I must begin to learn what to wear and now to wear it.
                        We've come to the right place, Freddie. Cheer up!"
                    He felt better when he was in evening clothes which made him handsome indeed,
                        bringing out all his refinement of feature and coloring. He was almost
                        cheerful when Susan came into the sitting-room in the pale gray of her two
                        new toilettes. It might be, as she insisted, that she was not dressed
                        properly for fashionable dining; but there would be no more delicate, no
                        more ladylike loveliness. He quite recovered his nerve when they faced the
                        company that had terrified him in prospect. He saw many commonplace looking
                        people, not a few who were downright dowdy. And presently he had the
                        satisfaction of realizing that not only Susan but he also was getting
                        admiring attention. He no longer  floundered
                        panicstricken; his feet touched bottom and he felt foolish about his
                        sensations of a few minutes before.
                    After all, the world over, dining in a restaurant is nothing but dining in a
                        restaurant. The waiter and the head waiter spoke English, were gracefully,
                        tactfully, polite; and as he ordered he found his self-confidence returning
                        with the surging rush of a turned tide on a low shore. The food was
                        wonderful, and the champagne, "English taste," was the
                        best he had ever drunk. Halfway through dinner both he and Susan were in the
                        happiest frame of mind. The other people were drinking too, were emerging
                        from caste into humanness. Women gazed languorously and longingly at the
                        handsome young American; men sent stealthy or open smiles of adoration at
                        Susan whenever Freddie's eyes were safely averted. But Susan was
                        more careful than a woman of the world to which she aspired would have been;
                        she ignored the glances and without difficulty assumed the air of wife.
                    "I don't believe we'll have any trouble getting
                        acquainted with these people," said Freddie.
                    "We don't want to, yet," replied she.
                    "Oh, I feel we'll soon be ready for them," said
                        he.
                    "Yes—that," said she. "But that amounts
                        to nothing. This isn't to be merely a matter of clothes and
                        acquaintances—at least, not with me."
                    "What then?" inquired he.
                    "Oh—we'll see as we get our bearings."
                        She could not have put into words the plans she was forming—plans
                        for educating and in every way developing him and herself. She was not sure
                        at what she was aiming, but only of the direction. She had no idea how far
                        she could go herself—or how far he would consent  to go. The wise course was just to work along
                        from day to day—keeping the direction.
                    "All right. I'll do as you say. You've got this
                        game sized up better than I."
                    Is there any other people that works as hard as do the Parisians? Other
                        peoples work with their bodies; but the Parisians, all classes and masses
                        too, press both mind and body into service. Other peoples, if they think at
                        all, think how to avoid work; the Parisians think incessantly, always, how
                        to provide themselves with more to do. Other peoples drink to stupefy
                        themselves lest peradventure in a leisure moment they might be seized of a
                        thought; Parisians drink to stimulate themselves, to try to think more
                        rapidly, to attract ideas that might not enter and engage a sober and
                        therefore somewhat sluggish brain. Other peoples meet a new idea as if it
                        were a mortal foe; the Parisians as if it were a longlost friend. Other
                        peoples are agitated chiefly, each man or woman, about themselves; the
                        Parisians are full of their work, their surroundings, bother little about
                        themselves except as means to what they regard as the end and aim of
                        life—to make the world each moment as different as possible from
                        what it was the moment before, to transform the crass and sordid universe of
                        things with the magic of ideas. Being intelligent, they prefer good to evil;
                        but they have God's own horror of that which is neither good nor
                        evil, and spew it out of their mouths.
                    At the moment of the arrival of Susan and Palmer the world that labors at
                        amusing itself was pausing in Paris on its way from the pleasures of sea and
                        mountains to the pleasures of the Riviera and Egypt. And as the weather held
                        fine, day after day the streets, the cafés, the restaurants, offered the
                        young adventurers  an incessant dazzling
                        panorama of all they had come abroad to seek. A week passed before Susan
                        permitted herself to enter any of the shops where she intended to buy
                        dresses, hats and the other and lesser paraphernalia of the woman of
                        fashion.
                    "I mustn't go until I've seen," said she.
                        "I'd yield to the temptation to buy and would regret
                        it."
                    And Freddie, seeing her point, restrained his impatience for making radical
                        changes in himself and in her. The fourth day of their stay at Paris he
                        realized that he would buy, and would wish to buy, none of the things that
                        had tempted him the first and second days. Secure in the obscurity of the
                        crowd of strangers, he was losing his extreme nervousness about himself.
                        That sort of emotion is most characteristic of Americans and gets them the
                        reputation for profound snobbishness. In fact, it is not snobbishness at
                        all. In no country on earth is ignorance in such universal disrepute as in
                        America. The American, eager to learn, eager to be abreast of the foremost,
                        is terrified into embarrassment and awe when he finds himself in
                        surroundings where are things that he feels he ought to know
                        about—while a stupid fellow, in such circumstances, is calmly
                        content with himself, wholly unaware of his own deficiencies.
                    Susan let full two weeks pass before she, with much hesitation, gave her
                        first order toward the outfit on which Palmer insisted upon her spending not
                        less than five thousand dollars. Palmer had been going to the shops with
                        her. She warned him it would make prices higher if she appeared with a
                        prosperous looking man; but he wanted occupation and everything concerning
                        her fascinated him now. His ignorance of the details of feminine dress was
                        giving place rapidly to a knowledge  which he
                        thought profound—and it was profound, for a man. She would not
                        permit him to go with her to order, however, or to fittings. All she would
                        tell him in advance about this first dress was that it was for evening wear
                        and that its color was green.
                    "But not a greeny green," said she.
                    "I understand. A green something like the tint in your skin at the
                        nape of your neck."
                    "Perhaps," admitted she. "Yes."
                    "We'll go to the opera the evening it comes home.
                        I'll have my new evening outfit from Charvet's by that
                        time."
                    It was about ten days after this conversation that she told him she had had a
                        final fitting, had ordered the dress sent home. He was instantly all
                        excitement and rushed away to engage a good box for the opera. With her
                        assistance he had got evening clothes that sent through his whole being a
                        glow of self-confidence—for he knew that in those clothes, he
                        looked what he was striving to be. They were to dine at seven. He dressed
                        early and went into their sitting-room. He was afraid he would spoil his
                        pleasure of complete surprise by catching a glimpse of the grande toilette before it was finished. At a quarter past seven
                        Susan put her head into the sitting-room—only her head. At sight of
                        his anxious face, his tense manner, she burst out laughing. It seemed, and
                        was, grotesque that one so imperturbable of surface should be so upset.
                    "Can you stand the strain another quarter of an hour?" said
                        she.
                    "Don't hurry," he urged. "Take all the
                        time you want. Do the thing up right." He rose and came toward her
                        with one hand behind him. "You said the dress was green,
                        didn't you?"
                    
                    "Yes."
                    "Well—here's something you may be able to fit in
                        somewhere." And he brought the concealed hand into view and held a
                        jewel box toward her.
                    She reached a bare arm through the crack in the door and took it. The box,
                        the arm, the head disappeared. Presently there was a low cry of delight that
                        thrilled him. The face reappeared. "Oh—Freddie!"
                        she exclaimed, radiant. "You must have spent a fortune on
                        them."
                    "No. Twelve thousand—that's all. It was a bargain.
                        Go on dressing. We'll talk about it afterward." And he
                        gently pushed her head back—getting a kiss in the palm of his
                        hand—and drew the door to.
                    Ten minutes later the door opened part way again. "Brace
                        yourself," she called laughingly. "I'm
                        coming."
                    A breathless pause and the door swung wide. He stared with eyes amazed and
                        bewitched. There is no more describing the effects of a harmonious
                        combination of exquisite dress and exquisite woman than there is reproducing
                        in words the magic and the thrill of sunrise or sunset, of
                        moonlight's fanciful amorous play, or of starry sky. As the girl
                        stood there, her eyes starlike with excitement, her lips crimson and
                        sensuous against the clear old-ivory pallor of her small face in its frame
                        of glorious dark hair, it seemed to him that her soul, more beautiful
                        counterpart of herself, had come from its dwelling place within and was
                        hovering about her body like an aureole. Round her lovely throat was the
                        string of emeralds. Her shoulders were bare and also her bosom, over nearly
                        half its soft, girlish swell. And draped in light and clinging grace about
                        her slender, sensuous form was the most wonderful  garment he had ever seen. The great French designers of
                        dresses and hats and materials have a genius for taking an idea—a
                        pure poetical abstraction—and materializing it, making it visible
                        and tangible with-out destroying its spirituality. This dress of
                        Susan's did not suggest matter any more than the bar of music
                        suggests the rosined string that has given birth to it. She was carrying the
                        train and a pair of long gloves in one hand. The skirt, thus drawn back,
                        revealed her slim, narrow foot, a slender slipper of pale green satin, a
                        charming instep with a rosiness shimmering through the gossamer web of pale
                        green silk, the outline of a long, slender leg whose perfection was
                        guaranteed by the beauty of her bare arm.
                    His expression changed slowly from bedazzlement to the nearest approach to
                        the old slumbrous, smiling wickedness she had seen since they started. And
                        her sensitive instinct understood; it was the menace of an insane jealousy,
                        sprung from fear—fear of losing her. The look vanished, and once
                        again he was Freddie Palmer the delighted, the generous and almost
                        romantically considerate, because everything was going as he wished.
                    "No wonder I went crazy about you," he said.
                    "Then you're not disappointed?"
                    He came to her, unclasped the emeralds, stood off and viewed her again.
                        "No—you mustn't wear them," said he.
                    "Oh!" she cried, protesting. "They're the
                        best of all."
                    "Not tonight," said he. "They look cheap. They
                        spoil the effect of your neck and shoulders. Another time, when
                        you're not quite so wonderful, but not tonight."
                    
                    As she could not see herself as he saw her, she pleaded for the jewels. She
                        loved jewels and these were the first she had ever had, except two modest
                        little birthday rings she had left in Sutherland. But he led her to the long
                        mirror and convinced her that he was right. When they descended to the
                        dining-room, they caused a stir. It does not take much to make fashionable
                        people stare; but it does take something to make a whole room full of them
                        quiet so far toward silence that the discreet and refined handling of dishes
                        in a restaurant like the Ritz sounds like a vulgar clatter. Susan and Palmer
                        congratulated themselves that they had been at the hotel long enough to
                        become acclimated and so could act as if they were unconscious of the
                        sensation they were creating. When they finished dinner, they found all the
                        little tables in the long corridor between the restaurant and the entrance
                        taken by people lingering over coffee to get another and closer view. And
                        the men who looked at her sweet dreaming violet-gray eyes said she was
                        innocent; those who looked at her crimson lips said she was gay; those who
                        saw both eyes and lips said she was innocent—as yet. A few very
                        dim-sighted, and very wise, retained their reason sufficiently to say that
                        nothing could be told about a woman from her looks—especially an
                        American woman. She put on the magnificent cloak, white silk, ermine lined,
                        which he had seen at Paquin's and had insisted on buying. And they
                        were off for the opera in the aristocratic looking auto he was taking by the
                        week.
                    She had a second triumph at the opera—was the center that drew all
                        glasses the instant the lights went up for the intermission. There were a
                        few minutes when her head was quite turned, when it seemed to her  that she had arrived very near to the highest
                        goal of human ambition—said goal being the one achieved and so
                        self-complacently occupied by these luxurious, fashionable people who were
                        paying her the tribute of interest and admiration. Were not these people at
                        the top of the heap? Was she not among them, of them, by right of excellence
                        in the things that made them, distinguished them?
                    Ambition, drunk and heavy with luxury, flies sluggishly and low. And her
                        ambition was—for the moment—in danger of that fate.
                    During the last intermission the door of their box opened. At once Palmer
                        sprang up and advanced with beaming face and extended hand to welcome the
                        caller.
                    "Hello, Brent, I am glad to see you! I want to
                        introduce you to Mrs. Palmer"—that name pronounced with
                        the unconscious pride of the possessor of the jewel.
                    Brent bowed. Susan forced a smile.
                    "We," Palmer hastened on, "are on a sort of
                        postponed honeymoon. I didn't announce the
                        marriage—didn't want to have my friends out of pocket for
                        presents. Besides, they'd have sent us stuff fit only to furnish
                        out a saloon or a hotel—and we'd have had to use it or
                        hurt their feelings. My wife's a Western girl—from
                        Indiana. She came on to study for the stage. But"—he
                        laughed delightedly—"I persuaded her to change her
                        mind."
                    "You are from the West?" said Brent in the formal tone one
                        uses in addressing a new acquaintance. "So am I. But
                        that's more years ago than you could count. I live in New
                        York—when I don't live here—or in the
                        Riviera."
                    The moment had passed when Susan could, without  creating an impossible scene, admit and compel Brent to admit that they
                        knew each other. What did it matter? Was it not best to ignore the past?
                        Probably Brent had done this deliberately, assuming that she was beginning a
                        new life with a clean slate.
                    "Been here long?" said Brent to Palmer.
                    As he and Palmer talked, she contrasted the two men. Palmer was much the
                        younger, much the handsomer. Yet in the comparison Brent had the advantage.
                        He looked as if he amounted to a great deal, as if he had lived and had
                        understood life as the other man could not. The physical difference between
                        them was somewhat the difference between look of lion and look of tiger.
                        Brent looked strong; Palmer, dangerous. She could not imagine either man
                        failing of a purpose he had set his heart upon. She could not imagine Brent
                        reaching for it in any but an open, direct, daring way. She knew that the
                        descendant of the supple Italians, the graduate of the street schools of
                        stealth and fraud, would not care to have anything unless he got it by skill
                        at subtlety. She noted their dress. Brent was wearing his clothes in that
                        elegantly careless way which it was one of Freddie's
                        dreams—one of the vain ones—to attain. Brent's
                        voice was much more virile, was almost harsh, and in pronouncing some words
                        made the nerves tingle with a sensation of mingled irritation and pleasure.
                        Freddie's voice was manly enough, but soft and dangerous,
                        suggestive of hidden danger. She compared the two men, as she knew them. She
                        wondered how they would seem to a complete stranger. Palmer, she thought,
                        would be able to attract almost any woman he might want; it seemed to her
                        that a woman Brent wanted would feel rather helpless before the onset he
                        would make.
                    
                    It irritated her, this untimely intrusion of Brent who had the curious
                        quality of making all other men seem less in the comparison. Not that he
                        assumed anything, or forced comparisons; on the contrary no man could have
                        insisted less upon himself. Not that he compelled or caused the transfer of
                        all interest to himself. Simply that, with him there, she felt less hopeful
                        of Palmer, less confident of his ability to become what he
                        seemed—and go beyond it. There are occasional men who have this
                        same quality that Susan was just then feeling in Brent—men whom
                        women never love yet who make it impossible for them to begin to love or to
                        continue to love the other men within their range.
                    She was not glad to see him. She did not conceal it. Yet she knew that he
                        would linger—and that she would not oppose. She would have liked to
                        say to him: "You lost belief in me and dropped me. I have begun to
                        make a life for myself. Let me alone. Do not upset me—do not force
                        me to see what I must not see if I am to be happy. Go away, and give me a
                        chance." But we do not say these frank, childlike things except in
                        moments of closest intimacy—and certainly there was no suggestion
                        of intimacy, no invitation to it, but the reverse, in the man facing her at
                        the front of the box.
                    "Then you are to be in Paris some time?" said Brent,
                        addressing her.
                    "I think so," said Susan.
                    "Sure," cried Palmer. "This is the town the world
                        revolves round. I felt like singing 'Home, Sweet Home' as
                        we drove from the station."
                    "I like it better than any place on earth," said Brent.
                    "Better even than New York. I've never been quite  able to forgive New York for some of the
                        things it made me suffer before it gave me what I wanted."
                    "I, too," said Freddie. "My wife can't
                        understand that. She doesn't know the side of life we know.
                        I'm going to smoke a cigarette. I'll leave you here, old
                        man, to entertain her."
                    When he disappeared, Susan looked out over the house with an expression of
                        apparent abstraction. Brent—she was conscious—studied her
                        with those seeing eyes—hazel eyes with not a bit of the
                        sentimentality and weakness of brown in them. "You and Palmer know
                        no one here?"
                    "Not a soul."
                    "I'll be glad to introduce some of my acquaintances to
                        you—French people of the artistic set. They speak English. And
                        you'll soon be learning French."
                    "I intend to learn as soon as I've finished my fall
                        shopping."
                    "You are not coming back to America?"
                    "Not for a long time."
                    "Then you will find my friends useful."
                    She turned her eyes upon his. "You are very kind," said
                        she. "But I'd rather—we'd
                        rather—not meet any-one—just yet."
                    His eyes met hers calmly. It was impossible to tell whether he understood or
                        not. After a few seconds he glanced out over the house. "That is a
                        beautiful dress," said he. "You have real taste, if
                        you'll permit me to say so. I was one of those who were struck dumb
                        with admiration at the Ritz tonight."
                    "It's the first grand dress I ever possessed,"
                        said she.
                    "You love dresses—and jewels—and
                        luxury?"
                    "As a starving man loves food."
                    "Then you are happy?"
                    
                    "Perfectly so—for the first time in my life."
                    "It is a kind of ecstasy—isn't it? I remember how
                        it was with me. I had always been poor—I worked my way through prep
                        school and college. And I wanted all the luxuries. The
                        more I had to endure—the worse food and clothing and
                        lodgings—the madder I became about them, until I couldn't
                        think of anything but getting the money to buy them. When I got it, I gorged
                        myself. . . . It's a pity the starving man can't keep on
                        loving food—keep on being always starving and always having his
                        hunger satisfied."
                    "Ah, but he can."
                    He smiled mysteriously. "You think so, now. Wait till you are
                        gorged."
                    She laughed. "You don't know! I could never get
                        enough—never!"
                    His smile became even more mysterious. As he looked away, his profile
                        presented itself to her view—an outline of sheer strength, of
                        tragic sadness—the profile of those who have dreamed and dared and
                        suffered. But the smile, saying no to her confident assertion, still
                        lingered.
                    "Never!" she repeated. She must compel that smile to take
                        away its disquieting negation, its relentless prophecy of the end of her
                        happiness. She must convince him that he had come back in vain, that he
                        could not disturb her.
                    "You don't suggest to me the woman who can be content with
                        just people and just things. You will always insist on luxury. But you will
                        demand more." He looked at her again. "And you will get
                        it," he added, in a tone that sent a wave through her nerves.
                    Her glance fell. Palmer came in, bringing an odor of cologne and of fresh
                        cigarette fumes. Brent rose.  Palmer laid a
                        detaining hand on his shoulder. "Do stay on, Brent, and go to
                        supper with us."
                    "I was about to ask you to supper with me. Have you been to the
                        Abbaye?"
                    "No. We haven't got round to that yet. Is it
                        lively?"
                    "And the food's the best in Paris. You'll
                        come?"
                    Brent was looking at Susan. Palmer, not yet educated in the
                        smaller—and important—refinements of politeness, did not
                        wait for her reply or think that she should be consulted.
                        "Certainly," said he. "On condition that you dine
                        with us tomorrow night."
                    "Very well," agreed Brent. And he excused himself to take
                        leave of his friends. "Just tell your chauffeur to go to the
                        Abbaye—he'll know," he said as he bowed over
                        Susan's hand. "I'll be waiting. I wish to be
                        there ahead and make sure of a table."
                    As the door of the box closed upon him Freddie burst out with that enthusiasm
                        we feel for one who is in a position to render us good service and is
                        showing a disposition to do so. "I've known him for
                        years," said he, "and he's the real thing. He
                        used to spend a lot of time in a saloon I used to keep in Allen
                        Street."
                    "Allen Street?" ejaculated Susan, shivering.
                    "I was twenty-two then. He used to want to study types, as he called
                        it. And I gathered in types for him—though really my place was for
                        the swell crooks and their ladies. How long ago that seems—and how
                        far away!"
                    "Another life," said Susan.
                    "That's a fact. This is my second time on earth. Our second time. I tell you it's fighting for a
                        foothold that makes men and women the wretches they are. Nowadays, I
                        couldn't hurt a fly—could you? But then  you never were cruel. That's why you
                        stayed down so long."
                    Susan smiled into the darkness of the auditorium—the curtain was up,
                        and they were talking in undertones. She said, as she smiled:
                    "I'll never go down and stay down for that reason
                        again."
                    Her tone arrested his attention; but he could make nothing of it or of her
                        expression, though her face was clear enough in the reflection from the
                        footlights.
                    "Anyhow, Brent and I are old pals," continued he,
                        "though we haven't seen so much of each other since he
                        made a hit with the plays. He always used to predict I'd get to the
                        top and be respectable. Now that it's come true, he'll
                        help me. He'll introduce us, if we work it right."
                    "But we don't want that yet," protested Susan.
                    "You're ready and so am I," declared Palmer in the
                        tone she knew had the full strength of his will back of it.
                    Faint angry hissing from the stalls silenced them, but as soon as they were
                        in the auto Susan resumed. "I have told Mr. Brent we don't
                        want to meet his friends yet."
                    "Now what the hell did you do that for?" demanded Freddie.
                        It was the first time she had crossed him; it was the first time he had been
                        reminiscent of the Freddie she used to know.
                    "Because," said she evenly, "I will not meet
                        people under false pretenses."
                    "What rot!"
                    "I will not do it," replied she in the same quiet way.
                    He assumed that she meant only one of the false pretenses—the one
                        that seemed the least to her. He said:
                    "Then we'll draw up and sign a marriage contract 
                        
                        
                        
                         and date it a couple of years ago, before the
                        new marriage law was passed to save rich men's drunken sons from
                        common law wives."
                    "I am already married," said Susan. "To a farmer
                        out in Indiana."
                    Freddie laughed. "Well, I'll be damned! You! You!"
                        He looked at her ermine-lined cloak and laughed again. "An Indiana
                        farmer!" Then he suddenly sobered. "Come to think of
                        it," said he, "that's the first thing you ever
                        told me about your past."
                    "Or anybody else," said Susan. Her body was quivering, for
                        we remember the past events with the sensations they made upon us at the
                        time. She could smell that little room in the farmhouse. Allen Street and
                        all the rest of her life in the underworld had for her something of the
                        vagueness of dreams—not only now but also while she was living that
                        life. But not Ferguson, not the night when her innocent soul was ravished as
                        a wolf rips up and munches a bleating lamb. No vagueness of dreams about
                        that, but a reality to make her shudder and reel whenever she thought of
                        it—a reality vivider now that she was a woman grown in experiences
                        and understanding.
                    "He's probably dead—or divorced you long
                        ago."
                    "I do not know."
                    "I can find out—without stirring things up. What was his
                        name?"
                    "Ferguson."
                    "What was his first name?"
                    She tried to recall. "I think—it was Jim. Yes, it was
                        Jim." She fancied she could hear the voice of that ferocious sister
                        snapping out that name in the miserable little coop of a general room in
                        that hot, foul, farm cottage.
                    
                    "Where did he live?"
                    "His farm was at the edge of Zeke Warham's
                        place—not far from Beecamp, in Jefferson County."
                    She lapsed into silence, seemed to be watching the gay night streets of the
                        Montmartre district—the cafés, the music halls, the sidewalk shows,
                        the throngs of people every man and woman of them with his or her own
                        individual variation upon the fascinating, covertly terrible face of the
                        Paris mob. "What are you thinking about?" he asked, when a
                        remark brought no answer.
                    "The past," said she. "And the
                        future."
                    "Well—we'll find out in a few days that your
                        farmer's got no claim on you—and we'll attend to
                        that marriage contract and everything'll be all
                        right."
                    "Do you want to marry me?" she asked, turning on him
                        suddenly.
                    "We're as good as married already," replied he.
                        "Your tone sounds as if you didn't want
                        to marry me." And he laughed at the absurdity of
                        such an idea.
                    "I don't know whether I do or not," said she
                        slowly.
                    He laid a gentle strong hand on her knee. Gentle though it was, she felt its
                        strength through the thickness of her cloak. "When the time
                        comes," said he in the soft voice with the menace hidden in it,
                        "you'll know whether you do or don't.
                        You'll know you do—Queenie."
                    The auto was at the curb before the Abbaye. And on the steps, in furs and a
                        top hat, stood the tall, experienced looking, cynical looking playwright.
                        Susan's eyes met his, he lifted his hat, formal, polite.
                    "I'll bet he's got the best table in the
                        place," said Palmer, before opening the door, "and
                        I'll bet it cost him a bunch."
                
                
                
                    XXI
                    
                        BRENT had an apartment in the rue de Rivoli, near the
                        Hotel Meurice and high enough to command the whole Tuileries garden. From
                        his balcony he could see to the east the ancient courts of the Louvre, to
                        the south the varied, harmonious façades of the Quay d'Orsay with
                        the domes and spires of the Left Bank behind, to the west the Obélisque, the
                        long broad reaches of the Champs Elysées with the Arc de Triomphe at the
                        boundary of the horizon. On that balcony, with the tides of traffic far
                        below, one had a sense of being at the heart of the world, past, present,
                        and to come. Brent liked to feel at home wherever he was; it enabled him to
                        go tranquilly to work within a few minutes after his arrival, no matter how,
                        far he had journeyed or how long he had been away. So he regarded it as an
                        economy, an essential to good work, to keep up the house in New York, a
                        villa in Petite Afrique, with the Mediterranean washing its garden wall,
                        this apartment at Paris; and a telegram a week in advance would reserve him
                        the same quarters in the quietest part of hotels at Luzerne, at St. Moritz
                        and at Biarritz.
                    Susan admired, as he explained his scheme of life to her and Palmer when they
                        visited his apartment. Always profound tranquillity in the midst of intense
                        activity. He could shut his door and be as in a desert; he could open it,
                        and the most interesting of the sensations created by the actions and
                        reactions of the whole human race were straightway beating upon his senses.
                             As she listened, she looked about, her
                        eyes taking in impressions to be studied at leisure. These quarters of his
                        in Paris were fundamentally different from those in New York, were the
                        expression of a different side of his personality. It was plain that he
                        loved them, that they came nearer to expressing his real—that is,
                        his inmost—self.
                    "Though I work harder in Paris than in New York," he
                        explained, "I have more leisure because it is all one kind of
                        work—writing—at which I'm never interrupted. So I
                        have time to make surroundings for myself. No one has time for surroundings
                        in New York."
                    She observed that of the scores of pictures on the walls, tables, shelves of
                        the three rooms they were shown, every one was a face—faces of all
                        nationalities, all ages, all conditions—faces happy and faces
                        tragic, faces homely, faces beautiful, faces irradiating the fascination of
                        those abnormal developments of character, good and bad, which give the
                        composite countenance of the human race its distinction, as the
                        characteristics themselves give it intensities of light and shade. She saw
                        angels, beautiful and ugly, devils beautiful and ugly.
                    When she began to notice this peculiarity of those rooms, she was simply
                        interested. What an amazing collection! How much time and thought it must
                        have taken! How he must have searched—and what an instinct he had
                        for finding the unusual, the significant! As she sat there and then strolled
                        about and then sat again, her interest rose into a feverish excitement. It
                        was as if the ghosts of all these personalities, not one of them
                        commonplace, were moving through the rooms, were pressing upon her. She
                        understood why Brent had them there—that they were as necessary to
                        him  as cadavers and skeletons and
                        physiological charts to an anatomist. But they oppressed, suffocated her;
                        she went out on the balcony and watched the effects of the light from the
                        setting sun upon and around the enormously magnified Arc.
                    "You don't like my rooms," said Brent.
                    "They fascinate me," replied she. "But
                        I'd have to get used to these friends of yours. You made their
                        acquaintance one or a few at a time. It's very upsetting, being
                        introduced to all at once."
                    She felt Brent's gaze upon her—that unfathomable look which
                        made her uneasy, yet was somehow satisfying, too. He said, after a while,
                        "Palmer is to give me his photograph. Will you give me
                        yours?" He was smiling. "Both of you belong in my
                        gallery."
                    "Of course she will," said Palmer, coming out on the
                        balcony and standing beside her. "I want her to have some taken
                        right away—in the evening dress she wore to the Opera last week.
                        And she must have her portrait painted."
                    "When we are settled," said Susan. "I've
                        no time for anything now but shopping."
                    They had come to inspect the apartment above Brent's, and had
                        decided to take it; Susan saw possibilities of making it over into the sort
                        of environment of which she had dreamed. In novels the descriptions of
                        interiors, which weary most readers, interested her more than story or
                        characters. In her days of abject poverty she used these word paintings to
                        construct for herself a room, suites of rooms, a whole house, to replace,
                        when her physical eyes closed and her eyes of fancy opened wide, the squalid
                        and nauseous cell to which poverty condemned her. In the streets she would
                        sometimes pause before a shop window display of interior  furnishings; a beautiful table or chair, a
                        design in wall or floor covering had caught her eyes, had set her to
                        dreaming—dreaming on and on—she in dingy skirt and leaky
                        shoes. Now—the chance to realize her dreams had come. Palmer had
                        got acquainted with some high-class sports, American, French and English, at
                        an American bar in the rue Volney. He was spending his afternoons and some
                        of his evenings with them—in the evenings winning large sums from
                        them at cards at which he was now as lucky as at everything else. Palmer,
                        pleased by Brent's manner toward Susan—formal politeness,
                        indifference to sex—was glad to have him go about with her. Also
                        Palmer was one of those men who not merely imagine they read human nature
                        but actually can read it. He knew he could trust Susan.
                        And it had been his habit—as it is the habit of all successful
                        men—to trust human beings, each one up to his capacity for
                        resisting temptation to treachery.
                    "Brent doesn't care for women—as women,"
                        said he. "He never did. Don't you think he's
                        queer?"
                    "He's different," replied Susan. "He
                        doesn't care much for people—to have them as intimates. I
                        understand why. Love and friendship bore one—or fail
                        one—and are unsatisfactory—and disturbing. But if one
                        centers one's life about things—books, pictures, art, a
                        career—why, one is never bored or betrayed. He has solved the
                        secret of happiness, I think."
                    "Do you think a woman could fall in love with him?" he
                        asked, with an air of the accidental and casual.
                    "If you mean, could I fall in love with him," said she, I
                        should say no. I think it would either amuse or annoy him to find that a
                        woman cared about him."
                    "Amuse him most of all," said Palmer. "He knows
                             the ladies—that they love us men
                        for what we can give them."
                    "Did you ever hear of anyone, man or woman, who cared about a person
                        who couldn't give them anything?"
                    Freddie's laugh was admission that he thought her right.
                        "The way to get on in politics," observed he, "is
                        to show men that it's to their best interest to support you. And
                        that's the way to get on in everything else—including
                        love."
                    Susan knew that this was the truth about life, as it appeared to her also.
                        But she could not divest herself of the human aversion to hearing the cold,
                        practical truth. She wanted sugar coating on the pill, even though she knew
                        the sugar made the medicine much less effective, often neutralized it
                        altogether. Thus Palmer's brutally frank cynicism got upon her
                        nerves, whereas Brent's equally frank cynicism attracted her
                        because it was not brutal. Both men saw that life was a coarse practical
                        joke. Palmer put the stress on the coarseness, Brent upon the humor.
                    Brent recommended and introduced to her a friend of his, a young French Jew
                        named Gourdain, an architect on the way up to celebrity. "You will
                        like his ideas and he will like yours," said Brent.
                    She had acquiesced in his insistent friendship for Palmer and her, but she
                        had not lowered by an inch the barrier of her reserve toward him. His speech
                        and actions at all times, whether Palmer was there or not, suggested that he
                        respected the barrier, regarded it as even higher and thicker than it was.
                        Nevertheless she felt that he really regarded the barrier as non-existent.
                        She said:
                    "But I've never told you my ideas."
                    
                    "I can guess what they are. Your surroundings will simply be an
                        extension of your dress."
                    She would not have let him see—she would not have admitted to
                        herself—how profoundly the subtle compliment pleased her.
                    Because a man's or a woman's intimate personal taste is
                        good it by no means follows that he or she will build or decorate or furnish
                        a house well. In matters of taste, the greater does not necessarily include
                        the less, nor does the less imply the greater. Perhaps Susan would have
                        shown she did not deserve Brent's compliment, would have failed
                        ignominiously in that first essay of hers, had she not found a Gourdain,
                        sympathetic, able to put into the concrete the rather vague ideas she had
                        evolved in her dreaming. An architect is like a milliner or a dressmaker. He
                        supplies the model, product of his own individual taste. The person who
                        employs him must remold that form into an expression of his own
                        personality—for people who deliberately live in surroundings that
                        are not part of themselves are on the same low level with those who utter
                        only borrowed ideas. That is the object and the aim of
                        civilization—to encourage and to compel each individual to be
                        frankly himself—herself. That is the profound meaning of freedom.
                        The world owes more to bad morals and to bad taste that are spontaneous than
                        to all the docile conformity to the standards of morals and of taste,
                        however good. Truth—which simply means an increase of harmony, a
                        decrease of discord, between the internal man and his
                        environment—truth is a product, usually a byproduct, of a ferment
                        of action.
                    Gourdain—chiefly, no doubt, because Susan's beauty of face
                        and figure and dress fascinated him—was more eager to bring out her
                        individuality than to show off  his own
                        talents. He took endless pains with her, taught her the technical knowledge
                        and vocabulary that would enable her to express herself, then carried out
                        her ideas religiously. "You are right, mon
                        ami," said he to Brent. "She is an orchid, and of a
                        rare species. She has a glorious imagination, like a bird of paradise
                        balancing itself into an azure sky, with every plume raining color and
                        brilliancy."
                    "Somewhat exaggerated," was Susan's pleased,
                        laughing comment when Brent told her.
                    "Somewhat," said Brent. "But my friend Gourdain is
                        stark mad about women's dressing well. That lilac dress you had on
                        yesterday did for him. He was your servant; he is your slave."
                    Abruptly—for no apparent cause, as was often the case—Susan
                        had that sickening sense of the unreality of her luxurious present, of being
                        about to awaken in Vine Street with Etta—or in the filthy bed with
                        old Mrs. Tucker. Absently she glanced down at her foot, holding it out as if
                        for inspection. She saw Brent's look of amusement at her seeming
                        vanity.
                    "I was looking to see if my shoes were leaky," she
                        explained.
                    A subtle change came over his face. He understood instantly.
                    "Have you ever been—cold?" she asked, looking at
                        him strangely.
                    "One cold February—cold and damp—I had no
                        underclothes—and no overcoat."
                    "And dirty beds—filthy rooms—filthy
                        people?"
                    "A ten-cent lodging house with a tramp for bed-fellow."
                    They were looking at each other, with the perfect understanding and sympathy
                        that can come only to  two people of the same
                        fiber who have braved the same storms. Each glanced hastily away.
                    Her enthusiasm for doing the apartment was due full as much to the fact that
                        it gave her definitely directed occupation as to its congeniality. That
                        early training of hers from Aunt Fanny Warham had made it forever impossible
                        for her in any circumstances to become the typical luxuriously sheltered
                        woman, whether legally or illegally kept—the lie-abed woman, the
                        woman who dresses only to go out and show off, the woman who wastes her life
                        in petty, piffling trifles—without purpose, without order or
                        system, without morals or personal self-respect. She had never lost the
                        systematic instinct—the instinct to use time instead of wasting
                        it—that Fanny Warham had implanted in her during the years that
                        determine character. Not for a moment, even without distinctly definite aim,
                        was she in danger of the creeping paralysis that is epidemic among the rich,
                        enfeebling and slowing down mental and physical activity. She had a regular
                        life; she read, she walked in the Bois; she made the best of each day. And
                        when this definite thing to accomplish offered, she did not have to learn
                        how to work before she could begin the work itself.
                    All this was nothing new to Gourdain. He was born and bred in a country where
                        intelligent discipline is the rule and the lack of it the rare
                        exception—among all classes—even among the women of the
                        well-to-do classes.
                    The finished apartment was a disappointment to Palmer. Its effects were too
                        quiet, too restrained. Within certain small limits, those of the man of
                        unusual intelligence but no marked originality, he had excellent
                        taste—or, perhaps, excellent ability to recognize  good taste. But in the large he yearned for
                        the grandiose. He loved the gaudy with which the rich surround themselves
                        because good taste forbids them to talk of their wealth and such
                        surroundings do the talking for them and do it more effectively. He would
                        have preferred even a vulgar glitter to the unobtrusiveness of those rooms.
                        But he knew that Susan was right, and he was a very human arrant coward
                        about admitting that he had bad taste.
                    "This is beautiful—exquisite," said he, with
                        feigned enthusiasm. "I'm afraid, though, it'll be
                        above their heads."
                    "What do you mean?" inquired Susan.
                    Palmer felt her restrained irritation, hastened to explain. "I mean
                        the people who'll come here. They won't appreciate it. You
                        have to look twice to appreciate this—and people, the best of
                        'em, look only once and a mighty blind look it is."
                    But Susan was not deceived. "You must tell me what changes you
                        want," said she. Her momentary irritation had vanished. Since
                        Freddie was paying, Freddie must have what suited him.
                    "Oh, I've got nothing to suggest. Now that I've
                        been studying it out, I wouldn't allow you to make any changes. It
                        does grow on one, doesn't it, Brent?"
                    "It will be the talk of Paris," replied Brent.
                    The playwright's tone settled the matter for Palmer. He was content.
                        Said he:
                    "Thank God she hasn't put in any of those dirty old
                        tapestry rags—and the banged up, broken furniture and the patched
                        crockery."
                    At the same time she had produced an effect of long tenancy. There was
                        nothing that glittered, nothing with the offensive sheen of the brand new.
                        There was  in that delicately toned atmosphere
                        one suggestion which gave the same impression as the artifical crimson of
                        her lips in contrast with the pallor of her skin and the sweet thoughtful
                        melancholy of her eyes. This suggestion came from an all-pervading odor of a
                        heavy, languorously sweet, sensuous perfume—the same that Susan
                        herself used. She had it made at a perfumer's in the faubourg St.
                        Honoré by mixing in a certain proportion several of the heaviest and most
                        clinging of the familiar perfumes.
                    "You don't like my perfume?" she said to Brent one
                        day.
                    He was in the library, was inspecting her selections of
                        books. Instead of answering her question, he said:
                    "How did you find out so much about books? How did you find time to
                        read so many?"
                    "One always finds time for what one likes."
                    "Not always," said he. "I had a hard stretch
                        once—just after I struck New York. I was a waiter for two months.
                        Working people don't find time for reading—and such
                        things."
                    "That was one reason why I gave up work," said she.
                    "That—and the dirt—and the poor wages—and
                        the hopelessness—and a few other reasons," said he.
                    "Why don't you like the perfume I use?"
                    "Why do you say that?"
                    "You made a queer face as you came into the
                        drawing-room."
                    "Do you like it?"
                    "What a queer question!" she said. "No other man
                        would have asked it."
                    "The obvious," said he, shrugging his shoulders.
                        "I couldn't help knowing you didn't like
                        it."
                    "Then why should I use it?"
                    
                    His glance drifted slowly away from hers. He lit a cigarette with much
                        attention to detail.
                    "Why should I use perfume I don't like?" persisted
                        she.
                    "What's the use of going into that?" said he.
                    "But I do like it—in a way," she went on after a
                        pause. "It is—it seems to me—the odor of
                        myself."
                    "Yes—it is," he admitted.
                    She laughed. "Yet you made a wry face."
                    "I did."
                    "At the odor?"
                    "At the odor."
                    "Do you think I ought to change to another perfume?"
                    "You know I do not. It's the odor of your soul. It is
                        different at different times—sometimes inspiringly sweet as the
                        incense of heaven, as my metaphoric friend Gourdain would
                        say—sometimes as deadly sweet as the odors of the drugs men take to
                        drag them to hell—sometimes repulsively sweet, making one heart
                        sick for pure, clean smell-less air yet without the courage to seek it. Your
                        perfume is many things, but always—always strong and tenacious and
                        individual."
                    A flush had overspread the pallor of her skin; her long dark lashes hid her
                        eyes.
                    "You have never been in love," he went on.
                    "So you told me once before." It was the first time either
                        had referred to their New York acquaintance.
                    "You did not believe me then. But you do now?"
                    "For me there is no such thing as love," replied she.
                        "I understand affection—I have felt it. I understand
                        passion. It is a strong force in my life—perhaps the
                        strongest."
                    "No," said he, quiet but positive.
                    
                    "Perhaps not," replied she carelessly, and went on, with
                        her more than manlike candor, and in her manner of saying the most startling
                        things in the calmest way:
                    "I understand what is called love—feebleness looking up to
                        strength or strength pitying feebleness. I understand because I've
                        felt both those things. But love—two equal people united perfectly,
                        merged into a third person who is neither yet is both—that I have
                        not felt. I've dreamed it. I've imagined it—in
                        some moments of passion. But"—she laughed and shrugged her
                        shoulders and waved the hand with the cigarette between its
                        fingers—"I have not felt it and I shall not feel it. I
                        remain I." She paused, considered, added, "And I prefer
                        that."
                    "You are strong," said he, absent and reflective.
                        "Yes, you are strong."
                    "I don't know," replied she. "Sometimes I
                        think so. Again—" She shook her head doubtfully.
                    "You would be dead if you were not. As strong in soul as in
                        body."
                    "Probably," admitted she. "Anyhow, I am sure I
                        shall always be—alone. I shall visit—I shall linger on my
                        threshold and talk. Perhaps I shall wander in perfumed gardens and dream of
                        comradeship. But I shall return chez moi."
                    He rose—sighed—laughed—at her and at himself.
                        "Don't delay too long," said he.
                    "Delay?"
                    "Your career."
                    "My career? Why, I am in the full swing of it. I'm at work
                        in the only profession I'm fit for."
                    "Yes—the profession of female."
                    He winced—and at this sign, if she did not ask  herself what pleased her, she did not ask herself why. He said
                        sharply, "I don't like that."
                    "But you have only to hear it.
                        Think of poor me who have to live it."
                    "Have to? No," said he.
                    "Surely you're not suggesting that I drop back into the
                        laboring classes! No, thank you. If you knew, you'd not say
                        anything so stupid."
                    "I do know, and I was not suggesting that. Under this capitalistic
                        system the whole working class is degraded. They call what they do
                        'work,' but that word ought to be reserved for what a man
                        does when he exercises mind and body usefully. What the working class is
                        condemned to by capitalism is not work but toil."
                    "The toil of a slave," said Susan.
                    "It's shallow twaddle or sheer cant to talk about the
                        dignity and beauty of labor under this system," he went on.
                        "It is ugly and degrading. The fools or hypocrites who talk that
                        way ought to be forced to join the gangs of slaves at their tasks in factory
                        and mine and shop, in the fields and the streets. And even the easier and
                        better paid tasks, even what the capitalists themselves do—those
                        things aren't dignified and beautiful. Capitalism divides all
                        men—except those of one class—the class to which I luckily
                        belong—divides all other men into three unlovely
                        classes—slave owners, slave drivers and slaves. But you're
                        not interested in those questions."
                    "In wage slavery? No. I wish to forget about it. Any alternative to
                        being a wage slave—or a slave driver—or a slave owner. Any
                        alternative."
                    "You don't appreciate your own good fortune," said
                        he. "Most human beings—all but a very few—have
                             to be in the slave classes, in one way or
                        another. They have to submit to the repulsive drudgery, with no advancement
                        except to slave driver. As for women—if they have to work, what can
                        they do but sell themselves into slavery to the machines, to the
                        capitalists? But you—you needn't do that. Nature endowed
                        you with talent—unusual talent, I believe. How lucky you are! How
                        superior to the great mass of your fellow beings who must slave or starve,
                        because they have no talent!"
                    "Talent?—I?" said Susan. "For what,
                        pray?"
                    "For the stage."
                    She looked amused. "You evidently don't think me
                        vain—or you'd not venture that jest."
                    "For the stage," he repeated.
                    "Thanks," said she drily, "but I'll not
                        appeal from your verdict."
                    "My verdict? What do you mean?"
                    "I prefer to talk of something else," said she coldly,
                        offended by his unaccountable disregard of her feelings.
                    "This is bewildering," said he. And his manner certainly
                        fitted the words.
                    "That I should have understood? Perhaps I
                        shouldn't—at least, not so quickly—if I
                        hadn't heard how often you have been disappointed, and how hard it
                        has been for you to get rid of some of those you tried and found
                        wanting."
                    "Believe me—I was not disappointed in you." He
                        spoke earnestly, apparently with sincerity. "The contrary. Your
                        throwing it all up was one of the shocks of my life."
                    She laughed mockingly—to hide her sensitiveness.
                    "One of the shocks of my life," he repeated.
                    
                    She was looking at him curiously—wondering why he was thus
                        uncandid.
                    "It puzzled me," he went on. "I've been
                        lingering on here, trying to solve the puzzle. And the more I've
                        seen of you the less I understand. Why did you do it? How could you do it?"
                    He was walking up and down the room in a characteristic pose—hands
                        clasped behind his back as if to keep them quiet, body erect, head
                        powerfully thrust forward. He halted abruptly and wheeled to face her.
                        "Do you mean to tell me you didn't get tired of work and
                        drop it for—" he waved his arm to indicate her luxurious
                        surroundings—"for this?"
                    No sign of her agitation showed at the surface. But she felt she was not
                        concealing herself from him.
                    He resumed his march, presently to halt and wheel again upon her. But before
                        he could speak, she stopped him.
                    "I don't wish to hear any more," said she, the
                        strange look in her eyes. It was all she could do to hide the wild burst of
                        emotion that had followed her discovery. Then she had not been without a
                        chance for a real career! She might have been free, might have belonged to
                        herself—
                    "It is not too late," cried he. "That's
                        why I'm here."
                    "It is too late," she said.
                    "It is not too late," repeated he, harshly, in his way that
                        swept aside opposition. "I shall get you back."
                        Triumphantly, "The puzzle is solved!"
                    She faced him with a look of defiant negation. "That ocean I
                        crossed—it's as narrow as the East River into which I
                        thought of throwing myself many a time—it's as narrow as
                        the East River beside the ocean between  what
                        I am and what I was. And I'll never go back. Never!"
                    She repeated the "never" quietly, under her breath. His
                        eyes looked as if they, without missing an essential detail, had swept the
                        whole of that to which she would never go back. He said:
                    "Go back? No, indeed. Who's asking you to go back? Not I.
                        I'm not asking you to go anywhere. I'm
                        simply saying that you will—must—go
                        forward. If you were in love, perhaps not. But you aren't in love.
                        I know form experience how men and women care for each other—how
                        they form these relationships. They find each other convenient and
                        comfortable. But they care only for themselves. Especially young people. One
                        must live quite a while to discover that thinking about oneself is living in
                        a stuffy little cage with only a little light, through slats in the top that
                        give no view. . . . It's an unnatural life for you. It
                        can't last. You—centering upon yourself—upon
                        comfort and convenience. Absurd!"
                    "I have chosen," said she.
                    "No—you can't do it," he went on, as if
                        she had not spoken. "You can't spend
                        your life at dresses and millinery, at chattering about art, at thinking
                        about eating and drinking—at being passively amused—at
                        attending to your hair and skin and figure. You may think so, but in reality
                        you are getting ready for me . . . for your career. You
                        are simply educating yourself. I shall have you back."
                    She held the cigarette to her lips, inhaled the smoke deeply, exhaled it
                        slowly.
                    "I will tell you why," he went on, as if he were answering
                        a protest. "Every one of us has an individuality of some sort. And
                        in spite of everything and  anything, except
                        death or hopeless disease, that individuality will insist upon expressing
                        itself."
                    "Mine is expressing itself," said she with a light
                        smile—the smile of a light woman.
                    "You can't rest in this present life of yours. Your
                        individuality is too strong. It will have its way—and for all your
                        mocking smiling, you know I am right. I understand how you were tempted into
                        it—"
                    She opened her lips—changed her mind and stopped her lips with her
                        cigarette.
                    "I don't blame you—and it was just as well. This
                        life has taught you—will teach you—will advance you in
                        your career. . . . Tell me, what gave you the idea that I was
                        disappointed?"
                    She tossed her cigarette into the big ash tray. "As I told you, it
                        is too late." She rose and looked at him with a strange, sweet
                        smile. "I've got any quantity of faults," said
                        she. "But there's one I haven't got. I
                        don't whine."
                    "You don't whine," assented he, "and you
                        don't lie—and you don't shirk. Men and women have
                        been canonized for less. I understand that for some reason you
                        can't talk about—"
                    "Then why do you continue to press me? said she, a little
                        coldly.
                    He accepted the rebuke with a bow. "Nevertheless," said he,
                        with raillery to carry off his persistence, "I shall get you. If
                        not sooner, then when the specter of an obscure—perhaps
                        poor—old age begins to agitate the rich hangings of
                        youth's banquet hall."
                    "That'll be a good many years yet," mocked she.
                        And from her lovely young face flashed the radiant defiance of her perfect
                        youth and health.
                    
                    "Years that pass quickly," retorted he, unmoved.
                    She was still radiant, still smiling, but once more she was seeing the
                        hideous old women of the tenements. Into her nostrils stole the stench of
                        the foul den in which she had slept with Mrs. Tucker and Mrs.
                        Rear-don—and she was hearing the hunchback of the dive playing for
                        the drunken dancing old cronies, with their tin cups of whiskey.
                    No danger of that now? How little she was saving of her salary from Palmer!
                        She could not "work" men—she simply could not.
                        She would never put by enough to be independent and every day her tastes for
                        luxury had firmer hold upon her. No danger? As much danger as
                        ever—a danger postponed but certain to threaten some
                        day—and then, a fall from a greater height—a certain fall.
                        She was hearing the battered, shattered piano of the dive.
                    "For pity's sake—Mrs. Palmer!" cried
                        Brent, in a low voice.
                    She started. The beautiful room, the environment of luxury and taste and
                        comfort came back.
                    Gourdain interrupted and then Palmer.
                    The four went to the Café Anglais for dinner. Brent announced that he was
                        going to the Riviera soon to join a party of friends. "I wish you
                        would visit me later," said he, with a glance that included them
                        all and rested, as courtesy required, upon Susan. "There's
                        room in my villa—barely room."
                    "We've not really settled here," said Susan.
                        "And we've taken up French seriously."
                    "The weather's frightful," said Palmer, with a
                        meaning glance at her. "I think we ought to go."
                    But her expression showed that she had no intention of going, no sympathy
                        with Palmer's desire to use this 
                        excellent, easy ladder of Brent's offering to make the ascent into
                        secure respectability.
                    "Next winter, then," said Brent, who was observing her.
                        "Or—in the early spring, perhaps."
                    "Oh, we may change our minds and come," Palmer suggested
                        eagerly. "I'm going to try to persuade my
                        wife."
                    "Come if you can," said Brent cordially.
                        "I'll have no one stopping with me."
                    When they were alone, Palmer sent his valet away and fussed about impatiently
                        until Susan's maid had unhooked her dress and had got her ready for
                        bed. As the maid began the long process of giving her hair a thorough
                        brushing, he said, "Please let her go, Susan. I want to tell you
                        something."
                    "She does not know a word of English."
                    "But these French are so clever that they understand perfectly with
                        their eyes."
                    Susan sent the maid to bed and sat in a dressing gown brushing her hair. It
                        was long enough to reach to the middle of her back and to cover her bosom.
                        It was very thick and wavy. Now that the scarlet was washed from her lips
                        for the night, her eyes shone soft and clear with no relief for their almost
                        tragic melancholy. He was looking at her in profile. Her expression was
                        stern as well as sad—the soul of a woman who has suffered and has
                        been made strong, if not hard.
                    "I got a letter from my lawyers today," he began.
                        "It was about that marriage. I'll read."
                    At the word "marriage," she halted the regular stroke of
                        the brush. Her eyes gazed into the mirror of the dressing
                        table—through her reflection deep into her life, deep into the
                        vistas of memory. As he unfolded  the letter,
                        she leaned back in the low chair, let her hands drop to her lap.
                    " 'As the inclosed documents show,'" he
                        read, "'we have learned and have legally verified that
                        Jeb—not James—Ferguson divorced his wife Susan Lenox about
                        a year after their marriage, on the ground of desertion; and two years later
                        he fell through the floor of an old bridge near Brooksburg and was
                        killed.' "
                    The old bridge—she was feeling its loose flooring sag and shift
                        under the cautious hoofs of the horse. She was seeing Rod Spenser on the
                        horse, behind him a girl, hardly more than a child—under the starry
                        sky—exchanging confidences—talking of their futures.
                    "So, you see, you are free," said Palmer. "I went
                        round to an American lawyer's office this afternoon, and borrowed
                        an old legal form book. And I've copied out this
                        form—"
                    She was hardly conscious of his laying papers on the table before her.
                    "It's valid, as I've fixed things. The lawyer gave
                        me some paper. It has a watermark five years old. I've dated back
                        two years—quite enough. So when we've signed, the marriage
                        never could be contested—not even by ourselves."
                    He took the papers from the table, laid them in her lap. She started.
                        "What were you saying?" she asked.
                        "What's this?"
                    "What were you thinking about?" said he.
                    "I wasn't thinking," she answered, with her slow
                        sweet smile of self-concealment. "I was
                        feeling—living—the past. I was watching the
                        procession."
                    He nodded understandingly. "That's a kind of time-wasting
                        that can easily be overdone."
                    "Easily," she agreed. "Still, there's the
                        lesson. I  have to remind myself of it
                        often—always, when there's anything that has to be
                        decided."
                    "I've written out two of the forms," said he.
                        "We sign both. You keep one, I the other. Why not sign
                        now?"
                    She read the form—the agreement to take each other as lawful husband
                        and wife and to regard the contract as in all respects binding and
                        legal.
                    "Do you understand it?" laughed he—nervously, for
                        her manner was disquieting.
                    "Perfectly."
                    "You stared at the paper as if it were a puzzle."
                    "It is," said she.
                    "Come into the library and we'll sign and have it over
                        with."
                    She laid the papers on the dressing table, took up her brush, drew it slowly
                        over her hair several times.
                    "Wake up," cried he, good humoredly. "Come on into
                        the library." And he went to the threshold.
                    She continued brushing her hair. "I can't sign,"
                        said she. There was the complete absence of emotion that caused her to be
                        misunderstood always by those who did not know her peculiarities. No one
                        could have suspected the vision of the old women of the dive before her
                        eyes, the sound of the hunchback's piano in her ears, the smell of
                        foul liquors and foul bodies and foul breaths in her nostrils. Yet she
                        repeated:
                    "No—I can't sign."
                    He returned to his chair, seated himself, a slight cloud on his brow, a
                        wicked smile on his lips. "Now what the devil!" said he
                        gently, a jeer in his quiet voice. "What's all this
                        about?"
                    "I can't marry you," said she. "I wish to
                        live on as we are."
                    
                    "But if we do that we can't get up where we want to
                        go."
                    "I don't wish to know anyone but interesting men of the
                        sort that does things—and women of my own sort. Those people have
                        no interest in conventionalities."
                    "That's not the crowd we set out to conquer," said
                        he. "You seem to have forgotten."
                    "It's you who have forgotten," replied she.
                    "Yes—yes—I know," he hastened to say.
                        "I wasn't accusing you of breaking your agreement.
                        You've lived up to it—and more. But, Susan, the people you
                        care about don't especially interest me. Brent—yes.
                        He's a man of the world as well as one of the artistic chaps. But
                        the others—they're beyond me. I admit it's all
                        fine, and I'm glad you go in for it. But the only crowd
                        that's congenial to me is the crowd that we've got to be
                        married to get in with."
                    She saw his point—saw it more clearly than did he. To him the world
                        of fashion and luxurious amusement seemed the only world worth while. He
                        accepted the scheme of things as he found it, had the conventional
                        ambitions—to make in succession the familiar goals of the
                        conventional human success—power, wealth, social position. It was
                        impossible for him to get any other idea of a successful life, of ambitions
                        worthy a man's labor. It was evidence of the excellence of his mind
                        that he was able to tolerate the idea of the possibility of there being
                        another mode of success worth while.
                    "I'm helping you in your ambitions—in doing what
                        you think is worth while," said he. "Don't you
                        think you owe it to me to help me in mine?"
                    He saw the slight change of expression that told him how deeply he had
                        touched her.
                    
                    "If I don't go in for the high society game," he
                        went on, "I'll have nothing to do. I'll be
                        adrift—gambling, drinking, yawning about and going to pieces. A
                        man's got to have something to work for—and he
                        can't work unless it seems to him worth doing."
                    She was staring into the mirror, her elbows on the table, her chin upon her
                        interlaced fingers. It would be difficult to say how much of his gentleness
                        to her was due to her physical charm for him, and how much to his respect
                        for her mind and her character. He himself would have said that his weakness
                        was altogether the result of the spell her physical charm cast over him. But
                        it is probable that the other element was the stronger.
                    "You'll not be selfish, Susan?" urged he.
                        "You'll give me a square deal."
                    "Yes—I see that it does look selfish," said she.
                        "A little while ago I'd not have been able to see any
                        deeper than the looks of it. Freddie, there are some things no one has a
                        right to ask of another, and no one has a right to grant."
                    The ugliness of his character was becoming less easy to control. This girl
                        whom he had picked up, practically out of the gutter, and had heaped
                        generosities upon, was trying his patience too far. But he said, rather
                        amiably:
                    "Certainly I'm not asking any such thing of you in asking
                        you to become a respectable married woman, the wife of a rich
                        man."
                    "Yes—you are, Freddie," replied she gently.
                        "If I married you, I'd be signing an agreement to lead
                        your life, to give up my own—an agreement to become a sort of woman
                        I've no desire to be and no interest in being; to give up trying to
                        become the only sort of woman I  think is
                        worth while. When we were discussing my coming with you, you made this same
                        proposal in another form. I refused it then. And I refuse it now.
                        It's harder to refuse now, but I'm stronger."
                    "Stronger, thanks to the money you've got from
                        me—the money and the rest of it," sneered he.
                    "Haven't I earned all I've got?" said
                        she, so calmly that he did not realize how the charge of ingratitude, unjust
                        though it was, had struck into her.
                    "You have changed!" said he. "You're
                        getting as hard as the rest of us. So it's all a matter of money,
                        of give and take—is it? None of the generosity and sentiment you
                        used to be full of? You've simply been using me."
                    "It can be put that way," replied she. "And no
                        doubt you honestly see it that way. But I've got to see my own
                        interest and my own right, Freddie. I've learned at last that I
                        mustn't trust to anyone else to look after them for
                        me."
                    "Are you riding for a fall—Queenie?"
                    At "Queenie" she smiled faintly. "I'm
                        riding the way I always have," answered she. "It has
                        carried me down. But—it has brought me up again." She
                        looked at him with eyes that appealed, without yielding. "And
                        I'll ride that way to the end—up or down," said
                        she. "I can't help it."
                    "Then you want to break with me?" he asked—and he
                        began to look dangerous.
                    "No," replied she. "I want to go on as we are. . .
                        . I'll not be interfering in your social ambitions, in any way.
                        Over here it'll help you to have a mistress who—"
                        she saw her image in the glass, threw him an arch
                        glance—"who isn't altogether
                        unattractive—won't it? And if you found you could go
                        higher by marrying  some woman of the grand
                        world—why, you'd be free to do it."
                    He had a way of looking at her that gave her—and
                        himself—the sense of a delirious embrace. He looked at her so, now.
                        He said:
                    "You take advantage of my being crazy about you—damn you!"
                    "Heaven knows," laughed she, "I need every
                        advantage I can find."
                    He touched her—the lightest kind of touch. It carried the sense of
                        embrace in his look still more giddily upward. "Queenie!"
                        he said softly.
                    She smiled at him through half closed eyes that with a gentle and shy
                        frankness confessed the secret of his attraction for her. There was,
                        however, more of strength than of passion in her face as a whole. Said
                        she:
                    "We're getting on well—as we
                        are—aren't we? I can meet the most amusing and interesting
                        people—my sort of people. You can go with the people and to the
                        places you like—and you'll not be bound. If you should
                        take a notion to marry some woman with a big
                        position—you'd not have to regret being tied
                        to—Queenie."
                    "But—I want you—I want you," said he.
                        "I've got to have you."
                    "As long as you like," said she. "But on terms I
                        can accept—always on terms I can accept. Never on any
                        others—never! I can't help it. I can yield every-thing but
                        that."
                    Where she was concerned he was the primitive man only. The higher his passion
                        rose, the stronger became his desire for absolute possession. When she spoke
                        of terms—of the limitations upon his possession of her—she
                             transformed his passion into fury. He
                        eyed her wickedly, abruptly demanded:
                    "When did you decide to make this kick-up?"
                    "I don't know. Simply—when you asked me to sign, I
                        found I couldn't."
                    "You don't expect me to believe
                        that."
                    "It's the truth." She resumed brushing her
                        hair.
                    "Look at me!"
                    She turned her face toward him, met his gaze.
                    "Have you fallen in love with that young Jew?"
                    "Gourdain? No."
                    "Have you a crazy notion that your looks'll get you a
                        better husband? A big fortune or a title?"
                    "I haven't thought about a husband. Haven't I told
                        you I wish to be free?"
                    "But that doesn't mean anything."
                    "It might," said she absently.
                    "How?"
                    "I don't know. If one is always free—one is ready
                        for—whatever comes. Anyhow, I must be free—no matter what
                        it costs."
                    "I see you're bent on dropping back into the dirt I picked
                        you out of."
                    "Even that," she said. "I must be
                        free."
                    "Haven't you any desire to be
                        respectable—decent?"
                    "I guess not," confessed she. "What is there in
                        that direction for me?"
                    "A woman doesn't stay young and good-looking
                        long."
                    "No." She smiled faintly. "But does she get old
                        and ugly any slower for being married?"
                    He rose and stood over her, looked smiling danger down at her. She leaned
                        back in her chair to meet his eyes without constraint.
                        "You're trying to play me a trick," said he.
                        "But you're not going to get away  with the goods. I'm astonished that you are so rotten
                        ungrateful."
                    "Because I'm not for sale?"
                    "Queenie balking at selling herself," he jeered.
                        "And what's the least you ever did sell for?"
                    "A half-dollar, I think. No—two drinks of whiskey one cold
                        night. But what I sold was no more myself than—than the coat
                        I'd pawned and drunk up before I did it."
                    The plain calm way in which she said this made it so terrible that he winced
                        and turned away. "We have seen hell—haven't
                        we?" he muttered. He turned toward her with genuine passion of
                        feeling. "Susan," he cried, "don't be a
                        fool. Let's push our luck, now that things are coming our way. We
                        need each other—we want to stay together—don't
                        we?"
                    
                        "I want to stay. I'm
                        happy."
                    "Then—let's put the record straight."
                    "Let's keep it straight," replied she
                        earnestly.
                    "Don't ask me to go where I don't belong. For I
                        can't, Freddie—honestly, I can't."
                    A pause. Then, "You will!" said he, not in blustering fury,
                        but in that cool and smiling malevolence which had made him the terror of
                        his associates from his boyhood days among the petty thieves and pickpockets
                        of Grand Street. He laid his hand gently on her shoulder. "You hear
                        me. I say you will."
                    She looked straight at him. "Not if you kill me," she said.
                        She rose to face him at his own height. "I've bought my
                        freedom with my body and with my heart and with my soul. It's all
                        I've got. I shall keep it."
                    He measured her strength with an expert eye. He knew that he was beaten. He
                        laughed lightly and went into his dressing-room.
                
                
                
                    XXII
                    
                        THEY met the next morning with no sign in the manner of
                        either that there had been a drawn battle, that there was an armed truce.
                        She knew that he, like herself, was thinking of nothing else. But until he
                        had devised some way of certainly conquering her he would wait, and watch,
                        and pretend that he was satisfied with matters as they were. The longer he
                        she reflected the less uneasy she became—as to immediate danger. In
                        Paris the methods of violence he might have been tempted to try in New York
                        were out of the question. What remained? He must realize that threats to
                        expose her would be futile; also, he must feel vulnerable, himself, to that
                        kind of attack—a feeling that would act as a restraint, even though
                        he might appreciate that she was the sort of person who could not in any
                        circumstances resort to it. He had not upon her a single one of the holds a
                        husband has upon a wife. True, he could break with her. But she must
                        appreciate how easy it would now be for her in this capital of the idle rich
                        to find some other man glad to "protect" a woman so expert
                        at gratifying man's vanity of being known as the proprietor of a
                        beautiful and fashionable woman. She had discovered how, in the aristocracy
                        of European wealth, an admired mistress was as much a necessary part of the
                        grandeur of great nobles, great financiers, great manufacturers, or
                        merchants, as wife, as heir, as palace, as equipage, as chef, as train of
                        secretaries and courtiers. She knew how deeply it would cut, to find himself
                        without  his show piece that made him the
                        envied of men and the desired of women. Also, she knew that she had an even
                        stronger hold upon him—that she appealed to him as no other woman
                        ever had, that she had become for him a tenacious habit. She was not afraid
                        that he would break with her. But she could not feel secure; in former days
                        she had seen too far into the mazes of that Italian mind of his, she knew
                        too well how patient, how relentless, how unforgetting he was. She would
                        have taken murder into account as more than a possibility but for his
                        intense and intelligent selfishness; he would not risk his life or his
                        liberty; he would not deprive himself of his keenest pleasure. He was
                        resourceful; but in the circumstances what resources were there for him to
                        draw upon?
                    When he began to press upon her more money than ever, and to buy her costly
                        jewelry, she felt still further reassured. Evidently he had been unable to
                        think out any practicable scheme; evidently he was, for the time, taking the
                        course of appeal to her generous instincts, of making her more and more
                        dependent upon his liberality.
                    Well—was he not right? Love might fail; passion might wane;
                        conscience, aiding self-interest with its usual servility, might overcome
                        the instincts of gratitude. But what power could overcome the loyalty
                        resting upon money interest? No power but that of a longer purse than his.
                        As she was not in the mood to make pretenses about herself to herself, she
                        smiled at this cynical self-measuring. "But I shan't
                        despise myself for being so material," said she to herself,
                        "until I find a genuine case of a woman,
                        respectable or otherwise, who has known poverty and escaped from it, and has
                        then voluntarily given up wealth to go back to it.
                    
                    I should not stay on with him if he were distasteful to me. And
                        that's more than most women can honestly say. Perhaps even I should
                        not stay on if it were not for a silly, weak feeling of
                        obligation—but I can't be sure of that." She had
                        seen too much of men and women preening upon noble disinterested motives
                        when in fact their real motives were the most calculatingly selfish; she
                        preferred doing herself less than justice rather than more.
                    She had fifty-five thousand francs on deposit at
                        Munroe's—all her very own. She had almost two hundred
                        thousand francs' worth of jewels, which she would be justified in
                        keeping—at least, she hoped she would think so—should
                        there come a break with Freddie. Yet in spite of this substantial
                        prosperity—or was it because of this prosperity?—she
                        abruptly began again to be haunted by the old visions, by warnings of the
                        dangers that beset any human being who has not that paying trade or
                        profession which makes him or her independent—gives him or her the
                        only unassailable independence.
                    The end with Freddie might be far away. But end, she saw, there would
                        be—the day when he would some-how get her in his power and so would
                        drive her to leave him. For she could not again become a slave. Extreme
                        youth, utter inexperience, no knowledge of real freedom—these had
                        enabled her to endure in former days. But she was wholly different now. She
                        could not sink back. Steadily she was growing less and less able to take
                        orders from anyone. This full-grown passion for freedom, this intolerance of
                        the least restraint—how dangerous, if she should find herself in a
                        position where she would have to put up with the caprices of some man or
                        drop down and down!
                    
                    What real, secure support had she? None. Her building was without solid
                        foundations. Her struggle with Freddie was a revelation and a warning. There
                        were days when, driving about in her luxurious car, she could do nothing but
                        search among the crowds in the streets for the lonely old women in rags,
                        picking and peering along the refuse of the cafés—weazened, warped
                        figures swathed in rags, creeping along, mumbling to themselves, lips folded
                        in and in over toothless gums.
                    One day Brent saw again the look she often could not keep from her face when
                        that vision of the dance hall in the slums was horrifying her. He said
                        impulsively:
                    "What is it? Tell me—what is it, Susan?"
                    It was the first and the last time he ever called her by her only personal
                        name. He flushed deeply. To cover his confusion—and her
                        own—she said in her most frivolous way:
                    "I was thinking that if I am ever rich I shall have more pairs of
                        shoes and stockings and take care of more orphans than anyone else in the
                        world."
                    "A purpose! At last a purpose!" laughed he. "Now
                        you will go to work."
                    Through Gourdain she got a French teacher—and her first woman
                        friend.
                    The young widow he recommended, a Madame Clélie Délière, was the most
                        attractive woman she had ever known. She had all the best French
                        characteristics—a good heart, a lively mind, was imaginative yet
                        sensible, had good taste in all things. Like most of the attractive French
                        women, she was not beautiful, but had that which is of far greater
                        importance—charm. She knew not a word of English, and it was
                        perhaps Susan's  chief incentive
                        toward working hard at French that she could not really be friends with this
                        fascinating person until she learned to speak her language.
                        Palmer—partly by nature, partly through early experience in the
                        polyglot tenement district of New York—had more aptitude for
                        language than had Susan. But he had been lazy about acquiring French in a
                        city where English is spoken almost universally. With the coming of young
                        Madame Délière to live in the apartment, he became interested.
                    It was not a month after her coming when you might have seen at one of the
                        fashionable gay restaurants any evening a party of four—Gourdain
                        was the fourth—talking French almost volubly. Palmer's
                        accent was better than Susan's. She could not—and felt she
                        never could—get the accent of the trans-Alleghany region out of her
                        voice—and so long as that remained she would not speak good French.
                        "But don't let that trouble you," said Clélie.
                        "Your voice is your greatest charm. It is so honest and so human.
                        Of the Americans I have met, I have liked only those with that same tone in
                        their voices."
                    "But I haven't that accent,"
                        said Freddie with raillery.
                    Madame Clélie laughed. "No—and I do not like you,"
                        retorted she. "No one ever did. You do not wish to be liked. You
                        wish to be feared." Her lively brown eyes sparkled and the big
                        white teeth in her generous mouth glistened. "You wish to be
                        feared—and you are feared, Monsieur
                        Freddie."
                    "It takes a clever woman to know how to flatter with the
                        truth," said he. "Everybody always has been afraid of
                        me—and is—except, of course, my wife."
                    He was always talking of "my wife" now. The subject  so completely possessed his mind that he
                        aired it unconsciously. When she was not around he boasted of "my
                        wife's" skill in the art of dress, of "my
                        wife's" taste, of "my wife's"
                        shrewdness in getting her money's worth. When she was there, he was
                        using the favorite phrase—"my wife"
                        this—"my wife" that—"my
                        wife" the other—until it so got on her nerves that she
                        began to wait for it and to wince whenever it came—never a wait of
                        many minutes. At first she thought he was doing this deliberately, either to
                        annoy her or in pursuance of some secret deep design. But she soon saw that
                        he was not aware of his inability to keep off the subject or of his
                        obsession for that phrase representing the thing he was intensely wishing
                        and willing—"chiefly," she thought,
                        "because it is something he cannot have." She was amazed
                        at his display of such a weakness. It gave her the chance to learn an
                        important truth about human nature—that self-indulgence soon
                        destroys the strongest nature—and she was witness to how rapidly an
                        inflexible will disintegrates if incessantly applied to an impossibility.
                        When a strong arrogant man, unbalanced by long and successful
                        self-indulgence, hurls himself at an obstruction, either the obstruction
                        yields or the man is destroyed.
                    One morning early in February, as she was descending from her auto in front
                        of the apartment house, she saw Brent in the doorway. Never had he looked so
                        young or so well. His color was fine, his face had become almost boyish;
                        upon his skin and in his eyes was that gloss of perfect health which until
                        these latter days of scientific hygiene was rarely seen after twenty-five in
                        a woman or after thirty in a man. She gathered in all, to the smallest
                        detail—such as the color of his 
                        shirt—with a single quick glance. She knew that he had seen her
                        before she saw him—that he had been observing her. Her happiest
                        friendliest smile made her small face bewitching as she advanced with
                        outstretched hand.
                    "When did you come?" she asked.
                    "About an hour ago."
                    "From the Riviera?"
                    "No, indeed. From St. Moritz—and skating and skiing and
                        tobogganing. I rather hoped I looked it. Doing those things in that
                        air—it's being born again."
                    "I felt well till I saw you," said she. "Now I
                        feel dingy and half sick."
                    He laughed, his glance sweeping her from hat to boots. Certainly his eyes
                        could not have found a more entrancing sight. She was wearing a beautiful
                        dress of golden brown cloth, sable hat, short coat and muff, brown suède
                        boots laced high upon her long slender calves. And when she had descended
                        from the perfect little limousine made to order for her, he had seen a
                        ravishing flutter of lingerie of pale violet silk. The sharp air had brought
                        no color to her cheeks to interfere with the abrupt and fascinating contrast
                        of their pallor with the long crimson bow of her mouth. But her skin seemed
                        transparent and had the clearness of health itself. Everything about her,
                        every least detail, was of Parisian perfection.
                    "Probably there are not in the world," said he,
                        "so many as a dozen women so well put together as you are. No, not
                        half a dozen. Few women carry the art of dress to the point of
                        genius."
                    "I see they had only frumps at St. Moritz this season,"
                        laughed she.
                    
                    But he would not be turned aside. "Most of the well dressed women
                        stop short with being simply frivolous in spending so much time at less than
                        perfection—like the army of poets who write pretty good verse, or
                        the swarm of singers who sing pretty well. I've heard of you many
                        times this winter. You are the talk of Paris."
                    She laughed with frank delight. It was indeed a pleasure to discover that her
                        pains had not been in vain.
                    "It is always the outsider who comes to the great city to show it
                        its own resources," he went on. "I knew you were going to
                        do this. Still happy?"
                    "Oh, yes."
                    But he had taken her by surprise. A faint shadow flitted across her face.
                        "Not so happy, I see."
                    "You see too much. Won't you lunch with us? We'll
                        have it in about half an hour."
                    He accepted promptly and they went up together. His glance traveled round the
                        drawing-room; and she knew he had noted all the changes she had made on
                        better acquaintance with her surroundings and wider knowledge of interior
                        furnishing. She saw that he approved, and it increased her good humor.
                        "Are yo hurrying through Paris on your way to somewhere
                        else?" she asked.
                    "No, I stop here—I think—until I sail for
                        America."
                    "And that will be soon?"
                    "Perhaps not until July. I have no plans. I've finished a
                        play a woman suggested to me some time ago. And I'm
                        waiting."
                    A gleam of understanding came into her eyes. There was controlled interest in
                        her voice as she inquired:
                    "When is it to be produced?"
                    
                    "When the woman who suggested it is ready to act in
                        it."
                    "Do I by any chance know her?"
                    "You used to know her. You will know her again."
                    She shook her head slowly, a pensive smile hovering about her eyes and lips.
                        "No—not again. I have—changed."
                    "We do not change," said he. "We move, but we do
                        not change. You are the same character you were when you came into the
                        world. And what you were then, that you will be when the curtain falls on
                        the climax of your last act. Your circumstances will change—and
                        your clothes—and your face, hair, figure—but not you."
                    
                    "Do you believe that?"
                    "I know it."
                    She nodded slowly, the violet-gray eyes pensive. "Birds in the
                        strong wind—that's what we are. Driven this way or
                        that—or quite beaten down. But the wind doesn't change
                        sparrow to eagle—or eagle to gull—does it?"
                    She had removed her coat and was seated on an oval lounge gazing into the
                        open fire. He was standing before it, looking taller and stronger than ever,
                        in a gray lounging suit. A cigarette depended loosely from the corner of his
                        mouth. He said abruptly:
                    "How are you getting on with your acting?"
                    She glanced in surprise.
                    "Gourdain," Brent explained. "He had to talk to
                        somebody about how wonderful you are. So he took to writing me—two
                        huge letters a week—all about you."
                    "I'm fond of him. And he's fond of Clélie.
                        She's my—"
                    
                    "I know all," he interrupted. "The tie between
                        them is their fondness for you. Tell me about the acting."
                    "Oh—Clélie and I have been going to the theater every few
                        days—to help me with French. She is mad about acting, and
                        there's nothing I like better."
                    "Also, you simply have to have
                        occupation."
                    She nodded. "I wasn't brought up to fit me for an idler.
                        When I was a child I was taught to keep busy—not at nothing, but at
                        something. Freddie's a lot better at it than I."
                    "Naturally," said Brent. "You had a home, with
                        order and a system—an old-fashioned American home.
                        He—well, he hadn't."
                    "Clélie and I go at our make-believe acting quite seriously. We have
                        to—if we're to fool ourselves that it's an
                        occupation."
                    "Why this anxiety to prove to me that you're not really
                        serious?"
                    "You should see us do the two wives in
                        'L'Enigme'—or mother and daughter in
                        that diary scene in 'L'Autre
                        Danger'!"
                    "I must. . . . When are you going to resume your
                        career?"
                    She rose, strolled toward an open door at one end of the salon, closed
                        it—strolled toward the door into the hall, glanced out, returned
                        without having closed it. She then said:
                    "Could I study here in Paris?"
                    Triumph gleamed in his eyes. "Yes. Boudrin—a splendid
                        teacher—speaks English. He—and I—can teach
                        you."
                    "Tell me what I'd have to do."
                    
                    "We would coach you for a small part in some play that's to
                        be produced here."
                    "In French?"
                    "I'll have an American girl written into a farce. Enough to
                        get you used to the stage—to give you practice in what
                        he'll teach you—the trade side of the art."
                    "And then?"
                    "And then we shall spend the summer learning your part in my play.
                        Two or three weeks of company rehearsals in New York in September. In
                        October—your name out over the Long Acre Theater in letters of
                        fire."
                    "Could that be done?"
                    "Even if you had little talent, less intelligence, and no
                        experience. Properly taught, the trade part of every art is easy. Teachers
                        make it hard partly because they're dull, chiefly because
                        there'd be small money for them if they taught quickly, and only
                        the essentials. No, journeyman acting's no harder to learn than
                        bricklaying or carpentering. And in America—everywhere in the world
                        but a few theaters in Paris and Vienna—there is nothing seen but
                        journeyman acting. The art is in its infancy as an art. It even has not yet
                        been emancipated from the swaddling clothes of declamation. Yes, you can do
                        well by the autumn. And if you develop what I think you have in you, you can
                        leap with one bound into fame. In America or England, mind
                        you—because there the acting is all poor to 'pretty
                        good'."
                    "You are sure it could be done? No—I don't mean
                        that. I mean, is there really a chance—any chance—for me
                        to make my own living? A real living?"
                    "I guarantee," said Brent.
                    
                    She changed from seriousness to a mocking kind of gayety—that is, to
                        a seriousness so profound that she would not show it. And she said:
                    "You see I simply must banish my old women—and that
                        hunchback and his piano. They get on my nerves."
                    He smiled humorously at her. But behind the smile his gaze—grave,
                        sympathetic—pierced into her soul, seeking the meaning he knew she
                        would never put into words.
                    At the sound of voices in the hall she said:
                    "We'll talk of this again."
                    At lunch that day she, for the first time in many a week, listened without
                        irritation while Freddie poured forth his unending praise of "my
                        wife." As Brent knew them intimately, Freddie felt free to
                        expatiate upon all the details of domestic economy that chanced to be his
                        theme, with the exquisite lunch as a text. He told Brent how Susan had made
                        a study of that branch of the art of living; how she had explored the
                        unrivaled Parisian markets and groceries and shops that dealt in
                        specialties; how she had developed their break-fasts, dinners, and lunches
                        to works of art. It is impossible for anyone, however stupid, to stop long
                        in Paris without beginning to idealize the material side of
                        life—for the French, who build solidly, first idealize food,
                        clothing, and shelter, before going on to take up the higher side of
                        life—as a sane man builds his foundation before his first story,
                        and so on, putting the observation tower on last of all, instead of making
                        an ass of himself trying to hang his tower to the stars. Our idealization
                        goes forward haltingly and hypocritically because we try to build from the
                        stars down, instead of from the ground up. The place to seek the  ideal is in the homely, the commonplace, and
                        the necessary. An ideal that does not spring deep—rooted from the
                        soil of practical life may be a topic for a sermon or a novel or for idle
                        conversation among silly and pretentious people. But what use has it in a
                        world that must live, and must be taught to live?
                    Freddie was unaware that he was describing a further development of
                        Susan—a course she was taking in the university of
                        experience—she who had passed through its common school, its high
                        school, its college. To him her clever housekeeping offered simply another
                        instance of her cleverness in general. His discourse was in bad taste. But
                        its bad taste was tolerable because he was interesting—food, like
                        sex, being one of those universal subjects that command and hold the
                        attention of all mankind. He rose to no mean height of eloquence in
                        describing their dinner of the evening before—the game soup that
                        brought to him visions of a hunting excursion he had once made into the
                        wilds of Canada; the way the barbue was cooked and served;
                        the incredible duck—and the salad! Clélie interrupted to describe
                        that salad as like a breath of summer air from fields and limpid brooks. He
                        declared that the cheese—which Susan had found in a shop in the
                        Marché St. Honoré—was more wonderful than the most wonderful petit Suisse. "And the coffee!" he
                        exclaimed. "But you'll see in a few minutes. We have coffee here."
                    
                        "Quelle histoire!" exclaimed Brent, when
                        Freddie had concluded. And he looked at Susan with the ironic, quizzical
                        gleam in his eyes.
                    She colored. "I am learning to live," said she.
                        "That's what we're on earth
                        for—isn't it?"
                    "To learn to live—and then, to live," replied
                        he.
                    
                    She laughed. "Ah, that comes a little later."
                    "Not much later," rejoined he, "or
                        there's no time left for it."
                    It was Freddie who, after lunch, urged Susan and Clélie to "show
                        Brent what you can do at acting."
                    "Yes—by all means," said Brent with
                        enthusiasm.
                    And they gave—in one end of the salon which was well suited for
                        it—the scene between mother and daughter over the stolen diary, in
                        "L'Autre Danger." Brent said little when they
                        finished, so little that Palmer was visibly annoyed. But Susan, who was
                        acquainted with his modes of expression, felt a deep glow of satisfaction.
                        She had no delusions about her attempts; she understood perfectly that they
                        were simply crude attempts. She knew she had done well—for
                        her—and she knew he appreciated her improvement.
                    "That would have gone fine—with costumes and
                        scenery—eh?" demanded Freddie of Brent.
                    "Yes," said Brent absently. "Yes—that
                        is—Yes."
                    Freddie was dissatisfied with this lack of enthusiasm.
                    He went on insistently:
                    "I think she ought to go on the stage—she and Madame
                        Clélie, too."
                    "Yes," said Brent, between inquiry and reflection.
                    "What do you think?"
                    "I don't think she ought," replied Brent.
                        "I think she must." He turned to Susan.
                        "Would you like it?"
                    Susan hesitated. Freddie said—rather lamely, "Of course she
                        would. For my part, I wish she would."
                    "Then I will," said Susan quietly.
                    Palmer looked astounded. He had not dreamed she would assent. He knew her
                        tones—knew that the particular tone meant finality.
                        "You're joking," cried he,  with an uneasy laugh. "Why, you wouldn't
                        stand the work for a week. It's hard work—isn't
                        it, Brent?"
                    "About the hardest," said Brent. "And
                        she's got practically everything still to learn."
                    "Shall we try, Clélie?" said Susan.
                    Young Madame Délière was pale with eagerness. "Ah—but that
                        would be worth while!" cried she.
                    "Then it's settled," said Susan. To Brent:
                        "We'll make the arrangements at
                        once—today."
                    Freddie was looking at her with a dazed expression. His glance presently
                        drifted from her face to the fire, to rest there thoughtfully as he smoked
                        his cigar. He took no part in the conversation that followed. Presently he
                        left the room without excusing himself. When Clélie seated herself at the
                        piano to wander vaguely from one piece of music to another, Brent joined
                        Susan at the fire and said in English:
                    "Palmer is furious."
                    "I saw," said she.
                    "I am afraid. For—I know him."
                    She looked calmly at him. "But I am not."
                    Then you do not know him."
                    The strangest smile flitted across her face.
                    After a pause Brent said: "Are you married to him?"
                    Again the calm steady look. Then: "That is none of your
                        business."
                    "I thought you were not," said Brent, as if she had
                        answered his question with a clear negative. He added, "You know
                        I'd not have asked if it had been 'none of my
                        business.'"
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "If you had been his wife, I could not have gone on. I've
                        all the reverence for a home of the man who has  never had one. I'd not take part in a home-breaking.
                        But—since you are free—"
                    "I shall never be anything else but free. It's because I
                        wish to make sure of my freedom that I'm going into
                        this."
                    Palmer appeared in the doorway.
                    That night the four and Gourdain dined together, went to the theater and
                        afterward to supper at the Café de Paris. Gourdain and young Madame Délière
                        formed an interesting, unusually attractive exhibit of the parasitism that
                        is as inevitable to the rich as fleas to a dog. Gourdain was a superior man,
                        Clélie a superior woman. There was nothing of the sycophant, or even of the
                        courtier, about either. Yet they already had in their faces that subtle
                        indication of the dependent that is found in all professional people who
                        habitually work for and associate with the rich only. They had no sense of
                        dependence; they were not dependents, for they gave more than value
                        received. Yet so corrupting is the atmosphere about rich people that
                        Gourdain, who had other rich clients, no less than Clélie who got her whole
                        living from Palmer, was at a glance in the flea class and not in the dog
                        class. Brent looked for signs of the same thing in Susan's face.
                        The signs should have been there; but they were not. "Not
                        yet," thought he. "And never will be now."
                    Palmer's abstraction and constraint were in sharp contrast to the
                        gayety of the others. Susan drank almost nothing. Her spirits were soaring
                        so high that she did not dare stimulate them with champagne. The Café de
                        Paris is one of the places where the respectable go to watch les autres and to catch a real gayety by contagion of a gayety
                        that is mechanical and altogether  as unreal
                        as play-acting. There is something fantastic about the official temples of
                        Venus; the pleasure-makers are so serious under their masks and the
                        pleasure-getters so quaintly dazzled and deluded. That is, Venus's
                        temples are like those of so many other religions in reverence among
                        men—disbelief and solemn humbuggery at the altar; belief that would
                        rather die than be undeceived, in the pews. Palmer scarcely took his eyes
                        from Susan's face. It amused and pleased her to see how uneasy this
                        made Brent—and how her own laughter and jests aggravated his
                        uneasiness to the point where he was almost showing it. She glanced round
                        that brilliant room filled with men and women, each of them carrying
                        underneath the placidity of stiff evening shirt or the scantiness of
                        audacious evening gown the most fascinating emotions and
                        secrets—love and hate and jealousy, cold and monstrous habits and
                        desires, ruin impending or stealthily advancing, fortune giddying to a
                        gorgeous climax, disease and shame and fear—yet only signs of love
                        and laughter and lightness of heart visible. And she wondered whether at any
                        other table there was gathered so curious an assemblage of pasts and
                        presents and futures as at the one over which Freddie Palmer was presiding
                        somberly. . . . Then her thoughts took another turn. She fell to nothing how
                        each man was accompanied by a woman—a gorgeously dressed woman, a
                        woman revealing, proclaiming, in every line, in every movement, that she was
                        thus elaborately and beautifully toiletted to please man, to appeal to his
                        senses, to gain his gracious approval. It was the world in miniature; it was
                        an illustration of the position of woman—of her own position.
                        Favorite; pet. Not the equal of man, but an appetizer, a dessert. She
                        glanced at herself in the glass, mocked  her
                        own radiant beauty of face and form and dress. Not really a full human
                        being; merely a decoration. No more; and no worse off than most of the women
                        everywhere, the favorites licensed or unlicensed of law and religion. But
                        just as badly off, and just as insecure. Free! No rest, no full breath until
                        freedom had been won! At any cost, by straight way or
                        devious—free!
                    "Let's go home," said she abruptly.
                        "I've had enough of this."
                    She was in a dressing gown, all ready for bed and reading, when Palmer came
                        into her sitting-room. She was smoking, her gaze upon her book. Her thick
                        dark hair was braided close to her small head. There was delicate lace on
                        her nightgown, showing above the wadded satin collar of the dressing gown.
                        He dropped heavily into a chair.
                    If anyone had told me a year ago that a skirt could make a damn fool of
                        me," said he bitterly, "I'd have laughed in his
                        face. Yet—here I am! How nicely I did drop into your trap
                        today—about the acting!"
                    "Trap?"
                    "Oh, I admit I built and baited and set it, myself—ass that
                        I was! But it was your trap—yours and Brent's, all the
                        same. . . . A skirt—and not a clean one, at that."
                    She lowered the book to her lap, took the cigarette from between her lips,
                        looked at him. "Why not be reasonable, Freddie?" said she
                        calmly. Language had long since lost its power to impress her. "Why
                        irritate yourself and annoy me simply because I won't let you
                        tyrannize over me? You know you can't treat me as  if I were your property. I'm not
                        your wife, and I don't have to be your mistress."
                    "Getting ready to break with me—eh?"
                    "If I wished to go, I'd tell you—and
                        go."
                    "You'd give me the shake, would you?—without the
                        slightest regard for all I've done for you!"
                    She refused to argue that again. "I hope I've outgrown
                        doing weak gentle things through cowardice and pretending it's
                        through goodness of heart."
                    "You've gotten hard—like stone."
                    "Like you—somewhat." And after a moment she added,
                        "Anything that's strong is hard—isn't
                        it? Can a man or a woman get anywhere without being able to be what you call
                        'hard' and what I call
                        'strong'?"
                    "Where do you want to get?" demanded
                        he.
                    She disregarded his question, to finish saying what was in her
                        mind—what she was saying rather to give herself a clear look at her
                        own thoughts and purposes than to enlighten him about them.
                        "I'm not a sheltered woman," pursued she.
                        "I've got no one to save me from the consequences of doing
                        nice, sweet, womanly things."
                    "You've got me," said he angrily.
                    "But why lean if I'm strong enough to stand alone? Why
                        weaken myself just to gratify your mania for owning and bossing? But let me
                        finish what I was saying. I never got any quarter because I was a woman. No
                        woman does, as a matter of fact; and in the end, the more she uses her sex
                        to help her shirk, the worse her punishment is. But in my case—
                    "I was brought up to play the weak female, to use my sex as my
                        shield. And that was taken from me and—I needn't tell you how I was taught to give and take like a
                        man—no, not like a man—for no man ever  has to endure what a woman goes through if
                        she is thrown on the world. Still, I'm not whining. Now that
                        it's all over I'm the better for what I've been
                        through. I've learned to use all a man's weapons and in
                        addition I've got a woman's."
                    "As long as your looks last," sneered he.
                    "That will be longer than yours," said she pleasantly,
                        "if you keep on with the automobiles and the champagne. And when my
                        looks are gone, my woman's weapons. . .
                    "Why, I'll still have the man's weapons
                        left—shan't I?—knowledge, and the ability to use
                        it."
                    His expression of impotent fury mingled with compelled admiration and respect
                        made his face about as unpleasant to look at as she had ever seen it. But
                        she liked to look. His confession of her strength made her feel stronger.
                        The sense of strength was a new sensation with her—new and
                        delicious. Nor could the feeling that she was being somewhat cruel restrain
                        her from enjoying it.
                    "I have never asked quarter," she went on. "I
                        never shall. If fate gets me down, as it has many a time, why I'll
                        be able to take my medicine without weeping or whining. I've never
                        asked pity. I've never asked charity. That's why
                        I'm here, Freddie—in this apartment, instead of in a
                        filthy tenement attic—and in these clothes instead of in
                        rags—and with you respecting me, instead of kicking me toward the
                        gutter. Isn't that so?"
                    He was silent.
                    "Isn't it so?" she insisted.
                    "Yes," he admitted. And his handsome eyes looked the love
                        so near to hate that fills a strong man for a strong woman when they clash
                        and he cannot conquer.  "No wonder
                        I'm a fool about you," he muttered.
                    "I don't purpose that any man or woman shall use
                        me," she went on, "in exchange for merely a few
                        flatteries. I insist that if they use me, they must let me use them. I
                        shan't be mean about it, but I shan't be altogether a
                        fool, either. And what is a woman but a fool when she lets men use her for
                        nothing but being called sweet and loving and womanly? Unless
                        that's the best she can do, poor thing!"
                    "You needn't sneer at respectable women."
                    "I don't," replied she. "I've no
                        sneers for anybody. I've discovered a great truth,
                        Freddie—the deep-down equality of all human beings—all of
                        them birds in the same wind and battling with it each as best he can. As for
                        myself—with money, with a career that interests me, with position
                        that'll give me any acquaintances and friends that are congenial, I
                        don't care what is said of me."
                    As her plan unfolded itself fully to his understanding, which needed only a
                        hint to enable it to grasp all, he forgot his rage for a moment in his
                        interest and admiration. Said he:
                    "You've used me. Now you're going to use
                        Brent—eh? Well—what will you give him in
                        exchange?"
                    "He wants someone to act certain parts in certain
                        plays."
                    "Is that all he wants?"
                    "He hasn't asked anything else."
                    "And if he did?"
                    "Don't be absurd. You know Brent."
                    "He's not in love with you," assented Palmer.
                        "He doesn't want you that way. There's some woman
                        somewhere, I've heard—and he doesn't care about
                        anybody but her."
                    
                    He was speaking in a careless, casual way, watching her out of the corner of
                        his eye. And she, taken off guard, betrayed in her features the secret that
                        was a secret even from herself. He sprang up with a bound, sprang at her,
                        caught her up out of her chair, the fingers of one hand clasping her
                        throat.
                    "I thought so!" he hissed. "You love
                        him—damn you! You love him! You'd better look out, both of
                        you!"
                    There came a knock at the door between her bedroom and that of Madame Clélie.
                        Palmer released her, stood panting, with furious eyes on the door from which
                        the sound had come. Susan called, "It's all right, Clélie,
                        for the present." Then she said to Palmer, "I told Clélie
                        to knock if she ever heard voices in this room—or any sound she
                        didn't understand." She reseated herself, began to massage
                        her throat where his fingers had clutched it. "It's
                        fortunate my skin doesn't mar easily," she went on.
                        "What were you saying?"
                    "I know the truth now. You love Brent. That's the milk in
                        the cocoanut."
                    She reflected on this, apparently with perfect tranquillity, apparently with
                        no memory of his furious threat against her and against Brent. She said:
                    "Perhaps I was simply piqued because there's another
                        woman."
                    "You are jealous."
                    "I guess I was—a little."
                    "You admit that you love him, you—"
                    He checked himself on the first hissing breath of the foul epithet. She said
                        tranquilly:
                    "Jealousy doesn't mean love. We're jealous in all
                        sorts of ways—and of all sorts of things."
                    "Well—he cares nothing about you."
                    
                    "Nothing."
                    "And never will. He'd despise a woman who had
                        been—"
                    "Don't hesitate. Say it. I'm used to hearing it,
                        Freddie—and to being it. And not 'had been' but
                        'is.' I still am, you know."
                    "You're not!" he cried. "And never
                        were—and never could be—for some unknown reason, God knows
                        why."
                    She shrugged her shoulders, lit another cigarette. He went on:
                    "You can't get it out of your head that because
                        he's interested in you he's more or less stuck on you.
                        That's the way with women. The truth is, he wants you merely to act
                        in his plays."
                    "And I want that, too."
                    "You think I'm going to stand quietly by and let this thing
                        go on—do you?"
                    She showed not the faintest sign of nervousness at this repetition, more
                        carefully veiled, of his threat against her—and against Brent. She
                        chose the only hopeful course; she went at him boldly and directly. Said she
                        with amused carelessness:
                    "Why not? He doesn't want me. Even if I love him,
                        I'm not giving him anything you want."
                    "How do you know what I want?" cried he, confused by this
                        unexpected way of meeting his attack. "You think I'm
                        simply a brute—with no fine instincts or
                        feelings—"
                    She interrupted him with a laugh. "Don't be absurd,
                        Freddie," said she. "You know perfectly well you and I
                        don't call out the finer feelings in each other. If either of us
                        wanted that sort of thing, we'd have to look
                        elsewhere."
                    
                    "You mean Brent—eh?"
                    She laughed with convincing derision. "What nonsense!" She
                        put her arms round his neck, and her lips close to his. The violet-gray eyes
                        were half closed, the perfume of the smooth amber-white skin, of the thick,
                        wavy, dark hair, was in his nostrils. And in a languorous murmur she soothed
                        his subjection to a deep sleep with, "As long as you give me what I
                        want from you, and I give you what you want from me—why should we
                        wrangle?"
                    And with a smile he acquiesced. She felt that she had ended the frightful
                        danger—to Brent rather than to herself—that suddenly
                        threatened from those wicked eyes of Palmer's. But it might easily
                        come again. She did not dare relax her efforts, for in the succeeding days
                        she saw that he was like one annoyed by a constant pricking from a pin
                        hidden in the clothing and searched for in vain. He was no longer jealous of
                        Brent. But while he didn't know what was troubling him, he did know
                        that he was uncomfortable.
                
                
                
                    XXIII
                    
                        IN but one important respect was Brent's original
                        plan modified. Instead of getting her stage experience in France, Susan
                        joined a London company making one of those dreary, weary, cheap and trashy
                        tours of the smaller cities of the provinces with half a dozen plays by
                        Jones, Pinero, and Shaw.
                    Clélie stayed in London, toiling at the language, determined to be ready to
                        take the small part of French maid in Brent's play in the fall.
                        Brent and Palmer accompanied Susan; and every day for several hours Brent
                        and the stage manager—his real name was Thomas Boil and his
                        professional name was Herbert Streathern—coached the patient but
                        most unhappy Susan line by line, word by word, gesture by gesture, in the
                        little parts she was playing. Palmer traveled with them, making a pretense
                        of interest that ill concealed his boredom and irritation. This for three
                        weeks; then he began to make trips to London to amuse himself with the
                        sports, amateur and professional, with whom he easily made
                        friends—some of them men in a position to be useful to him socially
                        later on. He had not spoken of those social ambitions of his since Susan
                        refused to go that way with him—but she knew he had them in mind as
                        strongly as ever. He was the sort of man who must have an objective, and
                        what other objective could there be for him who cared for and believed in
                        the conventional ambitions and triumphs only—the successes that
                        made the respectable world gape and grovel and envy?
                    
                    "You'll not stick at this long," he said to
                        Susan.
                    "I'm frightfully depressed," she admitted.
                        "It's tiresome—and hard—and so hideously
                        uncomfortable! And I've lost all sense of art or profession. Acting
                        seems to be nothing but a trade, and a poor, cheap one at
                        that."
                    He was not surprised, but was much encouraged by this candid account of her
                        state of mind. Said he:
                    "It's my private opinion that only your obstinacy keeps you
                        from giving it up straight off. Surely you must see it's nonsense.
                        Drop it and come along—and be comfortable and happy. Why be
                        obstinate? There's nothing in it."
                    "Perhaps it is obstinacy," said she.
                        "I like to think it's something else."
                    "Drop it. You want to. You know you do."
                    "I want to, but I can't," replied she.
                    He recognized the tone, the expression of the eyes, the sudden showing of
                        strength through the soft, young contour. And he desisted.
                    Never again could there be comfort, much less happiness, until she had tried
                        out her reawakened ambition. She had given up all that had been occupying
                        her since she left America with Freddie; she had abandoned herself to a life
                        of toil. Certainly nothing could have been more tedious, more tormenting to
                        sensitive nerves, than the schooling through which Brent was putting her.
                        Its childishness revolted her and angered her. Experience had long since
                        lowered very considerably the point at which her naturally sweet disposition
                        ceased to be sweet—a process through which every good-tempered
                        person must pass unless he or she is to be crushed and cast aside as a
                        failure. There were days, many of them, when it took all her good sense,  all her fundamental faith in Brent, to
                        restrain her from an outbreak. Streathern regarded Brent as a crank, and had
                        to call into service all his humility as a poor Englishman toward a rich man
                        to keep from showing his contempt. And Brent seemed to be—indeed
                        was—testing her forbearance to the uttermost. He offered not the
                        slightest explanation of his method. He simply ordered her blindly to pursue
                        the course he marked out. She was sorely tempted to ask, to demand,
                        explanations. But there stood out a quality in Brent that made her resolve
                        ooze away, as soon as she faced him. Of one thing she was confident. Any
                        lingering suspicions Freddie might have had of Brent's interest in
                        her as a woman, or even of her being interested in him as a man, must have
                        been killed beyond resurrection. Freddie showed that he would have hated
                        Brent, would have burst out against him, for the unhuman, inhuman way he was
                        treating her, had it not been that Brent was so admirably serving his design
                        to have her finally and forever disgusted and done with the stage.
                    Finally there came a performance in which the audience—the gallery
                        part of it—"booed" her—not the play, not
                        the other players, but her and no other. Brent came along, apparently by
                        accident, as she made her exit. He halted before her and scanned her
                        countenance with those all-seeing eyes of his. Said he:
                    "You heard them?"
                    "Of course," replied she.
                    "That was for you," said he—and he said it with an
                        absence of sympathy that made it brutal.
                    "For only me," said she—frivolously.
                    "You seem not to mind."
                    "Certainly I mind. I'm not made of wood or
                        stone."
                    
                    "Don't you think you'd better give it
                        up?"
                    She looked at him with a steely light from the violet eyes, a light that had
                        never been there before.
                    "Give up?" said she. "Not even if you give me up.
                        This thing has got to be put through."
                    He simply nodded. "All right," he said. "It will
                        be."
                    "That booing—it almost struck me dead. When it
                        didn't, I for the first time felt sure I was going to
                        win."
                    He nodded again, gave her one of his quick expressive, fleeting glances that
                        somehow made her forget and forgive everything and feel fresh and eager to
                        start in again. He said:
                    "When the booing began and you didn't break down and run
                        off the stage, I knew that what I hoped and believed about you was
                        true."
                    Streathern joined them. His large, soft eyes were full of sympathetic tears.
                        He was so moved that he braved Brent. He said to Susan:
                    "It wasn't your fault, Miss Lenox. You were doing exactly
                        as Mr. Brent ordered, when the booing broke out."
                    "Exactly," said Brent.
                    Streathern regarded him with a certain nervousness and veiled pity.
                        Streathern had been brought into contact with many great men. He had found
                        them, each and every one, with this same streak of wild folly, this habit of
                        doing things that were to him obviously useless and ridiculous. It was a
                        profound mystery to him why such men succeeded while he himself who never
                        did such things remained in obscurity. The only explanation was the abysmal
                        stupidity, ignorance, and folly of the masses of mankind. What a harbor of
                             refuge that reflection has ever been for
                        mediocrity's shattered and sinking vanity! Yet the one indisputable
                        fact about the great geniuses of long ago is that in their own country and
                        age "the common people heard them gladly." Streathern
                        could not now close his mouth upon one last appeal on behalf of the clever
                        and lovely and so amiable victim of Brent's mania.
                    "I say, Mr. Brent," pleaded he, "don't
                        you think—Really now, if you'll permit a chap not without
                        experience to say so—Don't you think that by drilling her
                        so much and so—so beastly
                        minutely—you're making her
                        wooden—machine-like?"
                    "I hope so," said Brent, in a tone that sent Streathern
                        scurrying away to a place where he could express himself unseen and
                        unheard.
                    In her fifth week she began to improve. She felt at home on the stage; she
                        felt at home in her part, whatever it happened to be. She was giving what
                        could really be called a performance. Streathern, when he was sure Brent
                        could not hear, congratulated her. "It's wonderfully
                        plucky of you, my dear," said he, "quite amazingly
                        plucky—to get yourself together and go straight ahead, in spite of
                        what your American friend has been doing to you."
                    "In spite of it." cried Susan. "Why,
                        don't you see that it's because of what he's been
                        doing? I felt it, all the time. I see it now."
                    "Oh, really—do you think so?" said Streathern.
                    His tone made it a polite and extremely discreet way of telling her he
                        thought she had become as mad as Brent. She did not try to explain to him
                        why she was improving. In that week she advanced by long strides, and Brent
                        was radiant.
                    "Now we'll teach you scales," said he.
                        "We'll teach  you the
                        mechanics of expressing every variety of emotion. Then we'll be
                        ready to study a strong part."
                    She had known in the broad from the outset what Brent was trying to
                        accomplish—that he was giving her the trade side of the art, was
                        giving it to her quickly and systematically. But she did not appreciate how
                        profoundly right he was until she was "learning scales."
                        Then she understood why most so called "professional"
                        performances are amateurish, haphazard, without any precision. She was
                        learning to posture, and to utter every emotion so accurately that any
                        spectator would recognize it at once.
                    "And in time your voice and your body," said Brent,
                        "will become as much your servants as are Paderewski's ten
                        fingers. He doesn't rely upon any such rot as inspiration. Nor does
                        any master of any art. A mind can be inspired but not a body. It must be
                        taught. You must first have a perfect instrument. Then, if you are a genius,
                        your genius, having a perfect instrument to work with, will produce perfect
                        results. To ignore or to neglect the mechanics of an art is to hamper or to
                        kill inspiration. Geniuses—a few—and they not the
                        greatest—have been too lazy to train their instruments. But anyone
                        who is merely talented dares not take the risk. And
                        you—we'd better assume—are merely
                        talented."
                    Streathern, who had a deserved reputation as a coach, was disgusted with
                        Brent's degradation of an art. As openly as he dared, he warned
                        Susan against the danger of becoming a mere machine—a puppet,
                        responding stiffly to the pulling of strings. But Susan had got over her
                        momentary irritation against Brent, her doubt of his judgment in her
                        particular case. She ignored Streathern's advice that she should be
                        natural,  that she should let her own
                        temperament dictate variations on his cut and dried formulae for expression.
                        She continued to do as she was bid.
                    "If you are not a natural born actress,"
                        said Brent, "at least you will be a good one—so good that
                        most critics will call you great. And if you are a natural
                        born genius at acting, you will soon put color in the cheeks of these dolls
                        I'm giving you—and ease into their bodies—and
                        nerves and muscles and blood in place of the strings."
                    In the seventh week he abruptly took her out of the company and up to London
                        to have each day an hour of singing, an hour of dancing, and an hour of
                        fencing. "You'll ruin her health," protested
                        Freddie. "You're making her work like a ditch
                        digger."
                    Brent replied, "If she hasn't the health, she's
                        got to abandon the career. If she has health, this training will give it
                        steadiness and solidity. If there's a weakness anywhere,
                        it'll show itself and can be remedied."
                    And he piled the work on her, dictated her hours of sleep, her hours for rest
                        and for walking, her diet—and little he gave her to eat. When he
                        had her thoroughly broken to his regimen, he announced that business
                        compelled his going immediately to America. "I shall be back in a
                        month," said he.
                    "I think I'll run over with you," said Palmer.
                        "Do you mind, Susan?"
                    "Clélie and I shall get on very well," she replied. She
                        would be glad to have both out of the way that she might give her whole mind
                        to the only thing that now interested her. For the first time she was
                        experiencing the highest joy that comes to mortals, the only joy that
                        endures and grows and defies all the calamities  of circumstances—the joy of work congenial and developing.
                    "Yes—come along," said Brent to Palmer.
                        "Here you'll be tempting her to break the rules."
                        He added, "Not that you would succeed. She understands what it all
                        means, now—and nothing could stop her. That's why I feel
                        free to leave her."
                    "Yes, I understand," said Susan. She was gazing away into
                        space; at sight of her expression Freddie turned hastily away.
                    On a Saturday morning Susan and Clélie, after waiting on the platform at
                        Euston Station until the long, crowded train for Liverpool and the Lusitania disappeared, went back to the lodgings in Half
                        Moon Street with a sudden sense of the vastness of London, of its loneliness
                        and dreariness, of its awkward inhospitality to the stranger under its pall
                        of foggy smoke. Susan was thinking of Brent's last words:
                    She had said, "I'll try to deserve all the pains
                        you've taken, Mr. Brent."
                    "Yes, I have done a lot for you," he had replied.
                        "I've put you beyond the reach of any of the calamities of
                        life—beyond the need of any of its consolations. Don't
                        forget that if the steamer goes down with all on board."
                    And then she had looked at him—and as Freddie's back was
                        half turned, she hoped he had not seen—in fact, she was sure he had
                        not, or she would not have dared. And Brent—had returned her look
                        with his usual quizzical smile; but she had learned how to see through that
                        mask. Then—she had submitted to Freddie's energetic
                        embrace—had given her hand to
                        Brent—"Good-by," she had said; and "Good
                        luck," he.
                    Beyond the reach of any of the calamities? Beyond  the need of any of the
                        consolations? Yes—it was almost literally true. She felt the big
                        interest—the career—growing up within her, and expanding,
                        and already overstepping all other interests and emotions.
                    Brent had left her and Clélie more to do than could be done; thus they had no
                        time to brother either about the absent or about themselves. Looking back in
                        after years on the days that Freddie was away, Susan could recall that from
                        time to time she would find her mind wandering, as if groping in the
                        darkness of its own cellars or closets for a lost thought, a missing link in
                        some chain of thought. This even awakened her several times in the
                        night—made her leap from sleep into acute and painful consciousness
                        as if she had recalled and instantly forgotten some startling and terrible
                        thing.
                    And when Freddie unexpectedly came—having taken passage on the Lusitania for the return voyage, after only six nights and
                        five days in New York—she was astonished by her delight at seeing
                        him, and by the kind of delight it was. For it rather seemed a sort of
                        relief, as from a heavy burden of anxiety.
                    "Why didn't you wait and come with Brent?" asked
                        she.
                    "Couldn't stand it," replied he.
                        "I've grown clear away from New York—at least
                        from the only New York I know. I don't like the boys any more. They
                        bore me. They—offend me. And I know if I stayed on a few days
                        they'd begin to suspect. No, it isn't Europe.
                        It's—you. You're responsible for the change in
                        me."
                    He was speaking entirely of the internal change, which indeed was great. For
                        while he was still fond of all kinds of sporting, it was not in his former
                        crude  way; he had even become something of a
                        connoisseur of pictures and was cultivating a respect for the purity of the
                        English language that made him wince at Susan's and
                        Brent's slang. But when he spoke thus frankly and feelingly of the
                        change in him, Susan looked at him—and, not having seen him in two
                        weeks and three days, she really saw him for the first time in many a month.
                        She could not think of the internal change he spoke of for noting the
                        external change. He had grown at least fifty pounds heavier than he had been
                        when they came abroad. In one way this was an improvement; it gave him a
                        dignity, an air of consequence in place of the boyish good looks of the days
                        before the automobile and before the effects of high living began to show.
                        But it made of him a different man in Susan's eyes—a man
                        who now seemed almost a stranger to her.
                    "Yes, you have changed," replied she
                        absently. And she went and examined herself in a mirror.
                    "You, too," said Freddie. "You don't look
                        older—as I do. But—there's
                        a—a—I can't describe it."
                    Susan could not see it. "I'm just the same," she
                        insisted.
                    Palmer laughed. "You can't judge about yourself. But all
                        this excitement—and studying—and thinking—and God
                        knows what—You're not at all the woman I came abroad
                        with."
                    The subject seemed to be making both uncomfortable; they dropped it.
                    Women are bred to attach enormous importance to their physical
                        selves—so much so that many women have no other sense of
                        self-respect, and regard themselves as possessing the entirety of virtue if
                        they have chastity or can pretend to have it. The life Susan  had led upsets all this and forces a woman
                        either utterly to despise herself, even as she is despised of men, or to
                        discard the sex measure of feminine self-respect as ridiculously inadequate,
                        and to seek some other measure. Susan had sought this other measure, and had
                        found it. She was, therefore, not a little surprised to find—after
                        Freddie had been back three or four days—that he was arousing in
                        her the same sensations which a strange man intimately about would have
                        aroused in her in the long past girlhood of innocence. It was not physical
                        repulsion; it was not a sense of immorality. It was a kind of shyness, a
                        feeling of violated modesty. She felt herself blushing if he came into the
                        room when she was dressing. As soon as she awakened in the morning she
                        sprang from bed beside him and hastened into her dressing-room and closed
                        the door, resisting an impulse to lock it. Apparently the feeling of
                        physical modesty which she had thought dead, killed to the last root, was
                        not dead, was once more stirring toward life.
                    "What are you blushing about?" asked he, when she, passing
                        through the bedroom, came suddenly upon him, very scantily dressed.
                    She laughed confusedly and beat a hurried retreat. She began to revolve the
                        idea of separate bedrooms; she resolved that when they moved again she would
                        arrange it on some pretext—and she was looking about for a new
                        place on the plea that their quarters in Half Moon Street were too cramped.
                        All this close upon his return, for it was before the end of the first week
                        that she, taking a shower bath one morning, saw the door of the bathroom
                        opening to admit him, and cried out sharply:
                    "Close that door!"
                    
                    "It's I," Freddie called, to make himself heard
                        above the noise of the water. "Shut off that water and
                        listen."
                    She shut off the water, but instead of listening, she said, nervous but
                        determined:
                    "Please close the door. I'll be out directly."
                    "Listen, I tell you," he cried, and she now noticed that
                        his voice was curiously, arrestingly, shrill.
                    "Brent—has been hurt—badly hurt." She was
                        dripping wet. She thrust her arms into her bathrobe, flung wide the partly
                        open door. He was standing there, a newspaper in his trembling hand.
                        "This is a dispatch from New York—dated
                        yesterday," he began. "Listen," and he read:
                    "During an attempt to rob the house of Mr. Robert Brent, the
                        distinguished playwright, early this morning, Mr. Brent was set upon and
                        stabbed in a dozen places, his butler, James Fourget, was wounded, perhaps
                        mortally, and his secretary, Mr. J. C. Garvey, was knocked insensible. The
                        thieves made their escape. The police have several clues. Mr. Brent is
                        hovering between life and death, with the chances against him."
                    Susan, leaning with all her weight against the door jamb, saw
                        Palmer's white face going away from her, heard his agitated voice
                        less and less distinctly—fell to the floor with a crash and knew no
                        more.
                    When she came to, she was lying in the bed; about it or near it were Palmer,
                        her maid, his valet, Clélie, several strangers. Her glance turned to
                        Freddie's face and she looked into his eyes amid a profound
                        silence. She saw in those eyes only intense anxiety and intense affection.
                        He said:
                    "What is it, dear? You are all right. Only a fainting
                        spell."
                    
                    "Was that true?" she asked.
                    "Yes, but he'll pull through. The surgeons save everybody
                        nowadays. I've cabled his secretary, Garvey, and to my lawyers.
                        We'll have an answer soon. I've sent out for all the
                        papers."
                    "She must not be agitated," interposed a medical looking
                        man with stupid brown eyes and a thin brown beard sparsely veiling his gaunt
                        and pasty face.
                    "Nonsense!" said Palmer, curtly. "My wife is not
                        an invalid. Our closest friend has been almost killed. To keep the news from
                        her would be to make her sick."
                    Susan closed her eyes. "Thank you," she murmured.
                        "Send them all away—except Clélie. . . . Leave me alone
                        with Clélie." Leave me alone with Clélie."
                    Pushing the others before him, Freddie moved toward the door into the hall.
                        At the threshold he paused to say:
                    "Shall I bring the papers when they come?"
                    She hesitated. "No," she answered without opening her eyes.
                        "Send them in. I want to read them, myself."
                    She lay quiet, Clélie stroking her brow. From time to time a shudder passed
                        over her. When, in answer to a knock, Clélie took in the bundle of
                        newspapers, she sat up in bed and read the meager dispatches. The long
                        accounts were made long by the addition of facts about Brent's
                        life. The short accounts added nothing to what she already knew. When she
                        had read all, she sank back among the pillows and closed her eyes. A long,
                        long silence in the room. Then a soft knock at the door. Clélie left the
                        bedside to answer it, returned to say:
                    "Mr. Freddie wishes to come in with a telegram."
                    
                    Susan started up wildly. Her eyes were wide and staring—a look of
                        horror. "No—no!" she cried. Then she compressed
                        her lips, passed her hand slowly over her brow. "Yes—tell
                        him to come in."
                    Her gaze was upon the door until it opened, leaped to his face, to his eyes,
                        the instant he appeared. He was smiling—hopefully, but not
                        gayly.
                    "Garvey says"—and he read from a slip of paper in
                        his hand—"'None of the wounds necessarily mortal.
                        Doctors refuse to commit themselves, but I believe he has a good
                        chance.'"
                    He extended the cablegram that she might read for herself, and said,
                        "He'll win, my dear. He has luck, and lucky people always
                        win in big things."
                    Her gaze did not leave his face. One would have said that she had not heard,
                        that she was still seeking what she had admitted him to learn. He sat down
                        where Clélie had been, and said:
                    "There's only one thing for us to do, and that is to go
                        over at once."
                    She closed her eyes. A baffled, puzzled expression was upon her deathly pale
                        face.
                    "We can sail on the Mauretania Saturday,"
                        continued he. "I've telephoned and there are good
                        rooms."
                    She turned her face away.
                    "Don't you feel equal to going?"
                    "As you say, we must."
                    "The trip can't do you any harm." His forced
                        composure abruptly vanished and he cried out hysterically: "Good
                        God! It's incredible." Then he got himself in hand again,
                        and went on: "No wonder it bowled you out. I had my anxiety about
                        you to break the shock. But you—How do you feel now?"
                    
                    "I'm going to dress."
                    "I'll send you in some brandy." He bent and kissed
                        her. A shudder convulsed her—a shudder visible even through the
                        covers. But he seemed not to note it, and went on: "I
                        didn't realize how fond I was of Brent until I saw that thing in
                        the paper. I almost fainted, myself. I gave Clélie a horrible
                        scare."
                    "I thought you were having an attack," said Clélie.
                        "My husband looked exactly as you did when he died that
                        way."
                    Susan's strange eyes were gazing intently at him—the
                        searching, baffled, persistently seeking look. She closed them as he turned
                        from the bed. When she and Clélie were alone and she was dressing, she
                        said:
                    "Freddie gave you a scare?"
                    "I was at breakfast," replied Clélie, "was pouring
                        my coffee. He came into the room in his bathrobe—took up the papers
                        from the table—opened to the foreign news as he always does. I
                        happened to be looking at him"—Clélie
                        flushed—"he is very handsome in that robe—and all
                        at once he dropped the paper—grew white—staggered and fell
                        into a chair. Exactly like my husband."
                    Susan, seated at her dressing-table, was staring absently out of the window.
                        She shook her head impatiently, drew a long breath, went on with her
                        toilet.
                
                
                
                    XXIV
                    
                        AFEW minutes before the dinner hour she came into the
                        drawing room. Palmer and Madame Délière were already there, near the fire
                        which the unseasonable but by no means unusual coolness of the London summer
                        evening made extremely comfortable—and, for Americans, necessary.
                        Palmer stood with his back to the blaze, moodily smoking a cigarette. That
                        evening his now almost huge form looked more degenerated than usual by the
                        fat of high living and much automobiling. His fleshy face, handsome still
                        and of a refined type, bore the traces of anxious sorrow. Clélie, sitting at
                        the corner of the fireplace and absently turning the leaves of an
                        illustrated French magazine, had in her own way an air as funereal as
                        Freddie's. As Susan entered, they glanced at her.
                    Palmer uttered and half suppressed an ejaculation of amazement. Susan was
                        dressed as for opera or ball—one of her best evening dresses, the
                        greatest care in arranging her hair and the details of her toilette. Never
                        had she been more beautiful. Her mode of life since she came abroad with
                        Palmer, the thoughts that had been filling her brain and giving direction to
                        her life since she accepted Brent as her guide and Brent's plans as
                        her career, had combined to give her air of distinction the touch of the
                        extraordinary—the touch that characterizes the comparatively few
                        human beings who live the life above and apart from that of the common
                        run—the life illuminated by imagination. At a glance one sees that
                        they are not of the eaters,  drinkers,
                        sleepers, and seekers after the shallow easy pleasures money provides
                        ready-made. They shine by their own light; the rest of mankind shines either
                        by light reflected from them or not at all.
                    Looking at her that evening as she came into the comfortable, old-fashioned
                        English room, with its somewhat heavy but undeniably dignified furniture and
                        draperies, the least observant could not have said that she was in gala
                        attire because she was in gala mood. Beneath the calm of her surface
                        expression lay some-thing widely different. Her face, slim and therefore
                        almost beyond the reach of the attacks of time and worry, was of the type to
                        which a haggard expression is becoming. Her eyes, large and dreamy, seemed
                        to be seeing visions of unutterable sadness, and the scarlet streak of her
                        mouth seemed to emphasize their pathos. She looked young, very young; yet
                        there was also upon her features the stamp of experience, the experience of
                        suffering. She did not notice the two by the fire, but went to the piano at
                        the far end of the room and stood gazing out into the lovely twilight of the
                        garden.
                    Freddie, who saw only the costume, said in an undertone to Clélie,
                        "What sort of freak is this?"
                    Said Madame Délière: "An uncle of mine lost his wife. They were
                        young and he loved her to distraction. Between her death and the funeral he
                        scandalized everybody by talking incessantly of the most trivial
                        details—the cards, the mourning, the flowers, his own clothes. But
                        the night of the funeral he killed himself."
                    Palmer winced as if Clélie had struck him. Then an expression of terror, of
                        fear, came into his eyes. "You don't think she'd
                        do that?" he muttered hoarsely.
                    
                    "Certainly not," replied the young Frenchwoman. "I
                        was simply trying to explain her. She dressed because she was unconscious of
                        what she was doing. Real sorrow doesn't think about
                        appearances." Then with quick tact she added: "Why should
                        she kill herself? Monsieur Brent is getting well. Also, while she's
                        a devoted friend of his, she doesn't love him, but
                        you."
                    "I'm all upset," said Palmer, in confused
                        apology.
                    He gazed fixedly at Susan—a straight, slim figure with the carriage
                        and the poise of head that indicate self-confidence and pride. As he gazed
                        Madame Clélie watched him with fascinated eyes. It was both thrilling and
                        terrifying to see such love as he was revealing—a love more
                        dangerous than hate. Palmer noted that he was observed, abruptly turned to
                        face the fire.
                    A servant opened the doors into the dining-room, Madame Délière rose.
                        "Come, Susan," said she.
                    Susan looked at her with unseeing eyes.
                    "Dinner is served."
                    "I do not care for dinner," said Susan, seating herself at
                        the piano.
                    "Oh, but you—"
                    "Let her alone," said Freddie, curtly. "You and I
                        will go in."
                    Susan, alone, dropped listless hands into her lap. How long she sat there
                        motionless and with mind a blank she did not know. She was aroused by a
                        sound in the hall—in the direction of the outer door of their
                        apartment. She started up, instantly all alive and alert, and glided swiftly
                        in the direction of the sound. A servant met her at the threshold. He had a
                        cablegram on a tray.
                    "For Mr. Palmer," said he.
                    But she, not hearing, took the envelope and tore it  open. At a sweep her eyes took in the unevenly typewritten
                        words: 
                            
                                
                                    Brent died at half past two this afternoon.
                                    
                                        GARVEY.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    She gazed wonderingly at the servant, reread the cablegram. The servant said:
                        "Shall I take it to Mr. Palmer, ma'am?"
                    "No. That is all, thanks," replied she.
                    And she walked slowly across the room to the fire. She shivered, adjusted one
                        of the shoulder straps of her low-cut pale green dress. She read the
                        cablegram a third time, laid it gently, thoughtfully, upon the mantel.
                        "Brent died at half past two this afternoon." Died. Yes,
                        there was no mistaking the meaning of those words. She knew that the message
                        was true. But she did not feel it. She was seeing Brent as he had been when
                        they said good-by. And it would take something more than a mere message to
                        make her feel that the Brent so vividly alive, so redolent of life, of
                        activity, of energy, of plans and projects, the Brent of health and
                        strength, had ceased to be. "Brent died at half past two this
                        afternoon." Except in the great crises we all act with a certain
                        theatricalism, do the thing books and plays and the example of others have
                        taught us to do. But in the great crises we do as we feel. Susan knew that
                        Brent was dead. If he had meant less to her, she would have shrieked or
                        fainted or burst into wild sobs. But not when he was her whole future. She
                            knew he was dead, but she did not believe it. So she stood staring at the flames, and wondering why,
                        when she knew such a frightful thing, she should remain calm. When she had
                        heard that he  was injured, she had felt, now
                        she did not feel at all. Her body, her brain, went serenely on in their
                        routine. The part of her that was her very self—had it died, and
                        not Brent?
                    She turned her back to the fire, gazed toward the opposite wall. In a mirror
                        there she saw the reflection of Palmer, at table in the adjoining room. A
                        servant was holding a dish at his left and he was helping himself. She
                        observed his every motion, observed his fattened body, his round and large
                        face, the forming roll of fat at the back of his neck. All at once she grew
                        cold—cold as she had not been since the night she and Etta Brashear
                        walked the streets of Cincinnati. The ache of this cold, like the cold of
                        death, was an agony. She shook from head to foot. She turned toward the
                        mantel again, looked at the cablegram. But she did not take it in her hands.
                        She could see—in the air, before her eyes—in clear, sharp
                        lettering—"Brent died at half past two this afternoon.
                        Garvey."
                    The sensation of cold faded into a sensation of approaching numbness. She
                        went into the hall—to her own rooms. In the dressing-room her maid,
                        Clémence, was putting away the afternoon things she had taken off. She stood
                        at the dressing table, unclasping the string of pearls. She said to Clémence
                        tranquilly:
                    "Please pack in the small trunk with the broad stripes three of my
                        plainest street dresses—some underclothes—the things for a
                        journey—only necessaries. Some very warm things, please, Clémence,
                        I've suffered from cold, and I can't bear the idea of it.
                        And please telephone to the—to the Cecil for a room and bath. When
                        you have finished I shall pay you what I owe and a month's wages
                        extra. I cannot afford to keep you any longer."
                    
                    "But, madame"—Clémence fluttered in
                        agitation—"Madame promised to take me to
                        America."
                    "Telephone for the rooms for Miss Susan Lenox," said Susan.
                        She was rapidly taking off her dress. "If I took you to America I
                        should have to let you go as soon as we landed."
                    "But, madame—" Clémence advanced to assist
                        her.
                    "Please pack the trunk," said Susan. "I am leaving
                        here at once."
                    "I prefer to go to America, even if madame—"
                    "Very well. I'll take you. But you
                        understand?"
                    "Perfectly, madame—"
                    A sound of hurrying footsteps and Palmer was at the threshold. His eyes were
                        wild, his face distorted. His hair, usually carefully arranged over the
                        rapidly growing bald spot above his brow, was disarranged in a manner that
                        would have been ludicrous but for the terrible expression of his face.
                        "Go!" he said harshly to the maid; and he stood fretting
                        the knob until she hastened out and gave him the chance to close the door.
                        Susan, calm and apparently unconscious of his presence, went on with her
                        rapid change of costume. He lit a cigarette with fingers trembling, dropped
                        heavily into a chair near the door. She, seated on the floor, was putting on
                        boots.
                    When she had finished one and was beginning on the other he said
                        stolidly:
                    "You think I did it"—not a question but an
                        assertion.
                    "I know it," replied she. She was so seated that he was
                        seeing her in profile.
                    "Yes—I did," he went on. He settled himself more
                        deeply in the chair, crossed his legs. "And I am glad that I
                        did."
                    
                    She kept on at lacing the boot. There was nothing in her expression to
                        indicate emotion, or even that she heard.
                    "I did it," continued he, "because I had the
                        right. He invited it. He knew me—knew what to expect. I suppose he
                        decided that you were worth taking the risk. It's strange what
                        fools men—all men—we men—are about women. . . .
                        Yes, he knew it. He didn't blame me."
                    She stopped lacing the boot, turned so that she could look at him.
                    "Do you remember his talking about me one day?" he went on,
                        meeting her gaze naturally. "He said I was a survival of the Middle
                        Ages—had a medieval Italian mind—said I would do anything
                        to gain my end—and would have a clear conscience about it. Do you
                        remember?"
                    "Yes."
                    "But you don't see why I had the right to kill
                        him?"
                    A shiver passed over her. She turned away again, began again to lace the
                        boot—but now her fingers were uncertain.
                    "I'll explain," pursued he. "You and I
                        were getting along fine. He had had his chance with you and had lost it.
                        Well, he comes over here—looks us up—puts himself between
                        you and me—proceeds to take you away from me. Not in a square manly
                        way but under the pretense of giving you a career. He made you
                        restless—dissatisfied. He got you away from me. Isn't that
                        so?"
                    She was sitting motionless now.
                    Palmer went on in the same harsh, jerky way:
                    "Now, nobody in the world—not even you—knew me
                        better than Brent did. He knew what to expect—if  I caught on to what was doing. And I guess he
                        knew I would be pretty sure to catch on."
                    "He never said a word to me that you couldn't have
                        heard," said Susan.
                    "Of course not," retorted Palmer. "That
                        isn't the question. It don't matter whether he wanted you
                        for himself or for his plays. The point is that he took you away from
                        me—he, my friend—and did it by stealth. You can't
                        deny that."
                    "He offered me a chance for a career—that was
                        all," said she. "He never asked for my love—or
                        showed any interest in it. I gave him that."
                    He laughed—his old-time, gentle, sweet, wicked laugh. He said:
                    "Well—it'd have been better for him if you
                        hadn't. All it did for him was to cost him his life."
                    Up she sprang. "Don't say that!" she cried
                        passionately—so passionately that her whole body shook.
                        "Do you suppose I don't know it? I know that I killed him.
                        But I don't feel that he's dead. If I did, I'd
                        not be able to live. But I can't! I can't! For me he is as
                        much alive as ever."
                    "Try to think that—if it pleases you," sneered
                        Palmer. "The fact remains that it was you who
                        killed him."
                    Again she shivered. "Yes," she said, "I killed
                        him."
                    "And that's why I hate you," Palmer went on, calm
                        and deliberate—except his eyes; they were terrible. "A few
                        minutes ago—when I was exulting that he would probably
                        die—just then I found that opened cable on the mantel. Do you know
                        what it did to me? It made me hate you. When I read it—"
                        Freddie puffed at his cigarette in silence. She dropped weakly to the chair
                        at the dressing table.
                    
                    "Curse it!" he burst out. "I loved him. Yes, I was
                        crazy about him—and am still. I'm glad I killed him.
                        I'd do it again. I had to do it. He owed me his life. But that
                        doesn't make me forgive you."
                    A long silence. Her fingers wandered among the articles spread upon the
                        dressing table. He said:
                    "You're getting ready to leave?"
                    "I'm going to a hotel at once."
                    "Well, you needn't. I'm leaving. You're
                        done with me. But I'm done with you." He rose, bent upon
                        her his wicked glance, sneering and cruel. "You never want to see
                        me again. No more do I ever want to see you again. I wish to God I never had
                        seen you. You cost me the only friend I ever had that I cared about. And
                        what's a woman beside a friend—a man
                        friend? You've made a fool of me, as a woman always does of a
                        man—always, by God! If she loves him, she destroys him. If she
                        doesn't love him, he destroys himself."
                    Susan covered her face with her bare arms and sank down at the dressing
                        table. "For pity's sake," she cried brokenly,
                        "spare me—spare me!"
                    He seized her roughly by the shoulder. "Just flesh!" he
                        said. "Beautiful flesh—but just female. And look what a
                        fool you've made of me—and the best man in the world
                        dead—over yonder! Spare you? Oh, you'll pull through all
                        right. You'll pull through everything and anything—and
                        come out stronger and better looking and better off. Spare you! Hell!
                        I'd have killed you instead of him if I'd known I was
                        going to hate you after I'd done the other thing. I'd do
                        it yet—you dirty skirt!"
                    He jerked her unresisting form to its feet, gazed at her like an insane
                        fiend. With a sob he seized her in  his arms,
                        crushed her against his breast, sunk his fingers deep into her hair, kissed
                        it, grinding his teeth as he kissed. "I hate you, damn
                        you—and I love you!" He flung her back into the
                        chair—out of his life. "You'll never see me
                        again!" And he fled from the room—from the house.
                
                
                
                    XXV
                    
                        THE big ship issued from the Mersey into ugly
                        waters—into the weather that at all seasons haunts and curses the
                        coasts of Northern Europe. From Saturday until Wednesday Susan and Madame
                        Délière had true Atlantic seas and skies; and the ship leaped and shivered
                        and crashed along like a brave cavalryman in the rear of a
                        rout—fighting and flying, flying and fighting. Four days of hours
                        whose every waking second lagged to record itself in a distinct pang of
                        physical wretchedness; four days in which all emotions not physical were
                        suspended, in which even the will to live, most tenacious of primal
                        instincts in a sane human being, yielded somewhat to the general lassitude
                        and disgust. Yet for Susan Lenox four most fortunate days; for in them she
                        underwent a mental change that enabled her to emerge delivered of the strain
                        that threatened at every moment to cause a snap.
                    On the fifth day her mind, crutched by her resuming body, took up again its
                        normal routine. She began to dress herself, to eat, to exercise—the
                        mechanical things first, as always—then to think. The grief that
                        had numbed her seemed to have been left behind in England where it had
                        suddenly struck her down—England far away and vague across those
                        immense and infuriated waters, like the gulf of death between two
                        incarnations. No doubt that grief was awaiting her at the other shores; no
                        doubt there she would feel that Brent was gone. But she would be better able
                        to bear  the discovery. The body can be
                        accustomed to the deadliest poisons, so that they become
                        harmless—even useful—even a necessary aid to life. In the
                        same way the mind can grow accustomed to the cruelest calamities, tolerate
                        them, use them to attain a strength and power the hothoused soul never
                        gets.
                    When a human being is abruptly plunged into an unnatural unconsciousness by
                        mental or physical catastrophes, the greatest care is taken that the
                        awakening to normal life again be slow, gradual, without shock. Otherwise
                        the return would mean death or insanity or lifelong affliction with radical
                        weakness. It may be that this sea voyage with its four days of agitations
                        that lowered Susan's physical life to a harmony of wretchedness
                        with her mental plight, and the succeeding days of gradual calming and
                        restoration, acted upon her to save her from disaster. There will be those
                        readers of her story who, judging her, perhaps, by themselves—as
                        revealed in their judgments, rather than in their professions—will
                        think it was quite unnecessary to awaken her gradually; they will declare
                        her a hard-hearted person, caring deeply about no one but herself, or one of
                        those curiosities of human nature that are interested only in things, not at
                        all in persons, even in themselves. There may also be those who will see in
                        her a soft and gentle heart for which her intelligence finally taught her to
                        construct a shield—more or less effective—against
                        buffetings which would have destroyed or, worse still, maimed her. These
                        will feel that the sea voyage, the sea change, suspending the normal human
                        life, the life on land, tided her over a crisis that otherwise must have
                        been disastrous.
                    However this may be—and who dares claim the  definite knowledge of the mazes of human character and motive
                        to be positive about the matter?—however it may be, on Thursday
                        afternoon they steamed along a tranquil and glistening sea into the splendor
                        and majesty of New York Harbor. And Susan was again her calm, sweet self, as
                        the violet-gray eyes gazing pensively from the small, strongly-featured face
                        plainly showed. Herself again, with the wound—deepest if not
                        cruelest of her many wounds—covered and with its poison under
                        control. She was ready again to begin to live—ready to fulfill our
                        only certain mission on this earth, for we are not here to succumb and to
                        die, but to adapt ourselves and live. And those who laud the succumbers and
                        the diers—yea, even the blessed martyrs of sundry and divers
                        fleeting issues usually delusions—may be paying ill-deserved
                        tribute to vanity, obstinacy, lack of useful common sense, passion for
                        futile and untimely agitation—or sheer cowardice.
                        Truth—and what is truth but right living?—truth needs no
                        martyrs; and the world needs not martyrs, not corpses rotting in unmarked or
                        monumented graves, but intelligent men and women, healthy in body and mind,
                        capable of leading the human race as fast as it is able to go in the
                        direction of the best truth to which it is able to go in the direction of
                        the best truth to which it is able at that time to aspire.
                    As the ship cleared Quarantine Susan stood on the main deck well forward,
                        with Madame Clélie beside her. And up within her, defying all rebuke, surged
                        the hope that cannot die in strong souls living in healthy bodies.
                    She had a momentary sense of shame, born of the feeling that it is basest,
                        most heartless selfishness to live, to respond to the caress of keen air
                        upon healthy skin, of glorious light upon healthy eyes, when there are  others shut out and shut away from these joys
                        forever. Then she said to herself, "But no one need apologize for
                        being alive and for hoping. I must try to justify him for all he did for
                        me."
                    A few miles of beautiful water highway between circling shores of green, and
                        afar off through the mist Madame Clélie's fascinated eyes beheld a
                        city of enchantment. It appeared and disappeared, reappeared only to
                        disappear again, as its veil of azure mist was blown into thick or thin
                        folds by the light breeze. One moment the Frenchwoman would think there was
                        nothing ahead but more and ever more of the bay glittering in the summer
                        sunlight. The next moment she would see again that city—or was it a
                        mirage of a city?—towers, mighty walls, domes rising mass above
                        mass, summit above summit, into the very heavens from the water's
                        edge where there was a fringe of green. Surely the vision must be real; yet
                        how could tiny man out of earth and upon earth rear in such enchantment of
                        line and color those enormous masses, those peak-like piercings of the
                        sky?
                    "Is that—it?" she asked in an
                        awed undertone.
                    Susan nodded. She, too, was gazing spellbound. Her beloved City of the
                        Sun.
                    "But it is beautiful—beautiful beyond belief. And I have
                        always heard that New York was ugly."
                    "It is beautiful—and ugly—both beyond
                        belief!" replied Susan.
                    "Yes—I love it. I have loved it from the first moment I saw
                        it. I've never stopped loving it—not
                        even—" She did not finish her sentence but gazed dreamily
                        at the city appearing and disappearing in its veils of thin, luminous mist.
                        Her thoughts traveled  again the journey of
                        her life in New York. When she spoke again, it was to say:
                    "Yes—when I first saw it—that spring
                        evening—I called it my City of the Stars, then, for I
                        didn't know that it belonged to the sun—Yes, that spring
                        evening I was happier than I ever had been—or ever shall be
                        again."
                    "But you will be happy again, dear," said Clélie, tenderly
                        pressing her arm.
                    A faint sad smile—sad but still a smile—made
                        Susan's beautiful face lovely. "Yes, I shall be
                        happy—not in those ways—but happy, for I shall be busy. .
                        . . No, I don't take the tragic view of life—not at all.
                        And as I've known misery, I don't try to hold to
                        it."
                    "Leave that," said Clélie, "to those who have
                        known only the comfortable make-believe miseries that rustle in crêpe and
                        shed tears—whenever there's anyone by to
                        see."
                    "Like the beggars who begin to whine and exhibit their aggravated
                        sores as soon as a possible giver comes into view," said Susan.
                        "I've learned to accept what comes, and to try to make the
                        best of it, whatever it is. . . . I say I've learned. But have I?
                        Does one ever change? I guess I was born that sort of
                        philosopher."
                    She recalled how she put the Warhams out of her life as soon as she
                        discovered what they really meant to her and she to them—how she
                        had put Jeb Ferguson out of her life—how she had conquered the
                        grief and desolation of the loss of Burlingham—how she had survived
                        Etta's going away without her-the inner meaning of her episodes
                        with Rod—with Freddie Palmer—
                    
                    And now this last supreme test—with her soul rising up and gathering
                        itself together and lifting its head in strength—
                    "Yes, I was born to make the best of things," she
                        repeated.
                    "Then you were born lucky," sighed Clélie, who was of those
                        who must lean if they would not fall and lie where they fell.
                    Susan gave a curious little laugh—with no mirth, with a great deal
                        of mockery. "Do you know, I never thought so before, but I believe
                        you're right," said she. Again she laughed in that queer
                        way. "If you knew my life you'd think I was joking. But
                        I'm not. The fact that I've survived and am what I am
                        proves I was born lucky." Her tone changed, her expression became
                        unreadable. "If it's lucky to be born able to live. And if
                        that isn't luck, what is?"
                    She thought how Brent said she was born lucky because she had the talent that
                        enables one to rise above the sordidness of that capitalism he so often
                        denounced—the sordidness of the lot of its slaves, the sordidness
                        of the lot of its masters. Brent! If it were he leaning beside
                        her—if he and she were coming up the bay toward the City of the
                        Sun!
                    A billow of heartsick desolation surged over her. Alone—always
                        alone. And still alone. And always to be alone.
                    Garvey came aboard when the gangway was run out. He was in black wherever
                        black could be displayed. But the grief shadowing his large, simple
                        countenance had the stamp of the genuine. And it was genuine, of the most
                        approved enervating kind. He had done nothing but grieve since his
                        master's death—had left unattended all the matters the man
                        he loved and  grieved for would have wished
                        put in order. Is it out of charity for the weakness of human nature and that
                        we may think as well as possible of it—is that why we admire and
                        praise most enthusiastically the kind of love and the kind of friendship and
                        the kind of grief that manifest themselves in obstreperous feeling and
                        wordiness, with no strength left for any attempt to do? As
                        Garvey greeted them the tears filled Clélie's eyes and she turned
                        away. But Susan gazed at him steadily; in her eyes there were no tears, but
                        a look that made Garvey choke back sobs and bend his head to hide his
                        expression. What he saw—or felt—behind her calmness filled
                        him with awe, with a kind of terror. But he did not recognize what he saw as
                        grief; it did not resemble any grief he had felt or had heard about.
                    "He made a will just before he died," he said to Susan.
                        "He left everything to you."
                    Then she had not been mistaken. He had loved her, even as she loved him. She
                        turned and walked quickly from them. She hastened into her cabin, closed the
                        door and flung herself across the bed. And for the first time she gave way.
                        In that storm her soul was like a little land bird in the clutch of a sea
                        hurricane. She did not understand herself. She still had no sense that he
                        was dead; yet had his dead body been lying there in her arms she could not
                        have been more shaken by paroxysms of grief, without tears or
                        sobs—grief that vents itself in shrieks and peals of horrible
                        laughter-like screams—she smothered them in the pillows in which
                        she buried her face. Clélie came, opened the door, glanced in, closed it. An
                        hour passed—an hour and a half. Then Susan appeared on
                        deck—amber-white pallor, calm, beautiful, the fashionable woman in
                        traveling dress.
                    
                    "I never before saw you with your lips not rouged!"
                        exclaimed Clélie.
                    "You will never see them rouged again," said Susan.
                    "But it makes you look older."
                    "Not so old as I am," replied she.
                    And she busied herself about the details of the landing and the customs,
                        waving aside Garvey and his eager urgings that she sit quietly and leave
                        everything to him. In the carriage, on the way to the hotel, she roused
                        herself from her apparently tranquil reverie and broke the strained silence
                        by saying:
                    "How much shall I have?"
                    The question was merely the protruding end of a train of thought years long
                        and pursued all that time with scarcely an interruption. It seemed abrupt;
                        to Garvey it sounded brutal. Off his guard, he showed in flooding color and
                        staring eye how profoundly it shocked him. Susan saw, but she did not
                        explain; she was not keeping accounts in emotion with the world. She waited
                        patiently. After a long pause he said in a tone that contained as much of
                        rebuke as so mild a dependent dared express:
                    "He left about thirty thousand a year, Miss Lenox."
                    The exultant light that leaped to Susan's eye horrified him. It even
                        disturbed Clélie, though she better understood Susan's nature and
                        was not nearly so reverent as Garvey of the hypocrisies of conventionality.
                        But Susan had long since lost the last trace of awe of the opinion of
                        others. She was not seeking to convey an impression of grief. Grief was too
                        real to her. She would as soon have burst out with voluble confession of the
                        secret of her love for Brent. She saw what Garvey was thinking; but she was
                        not concerned. She continued to be herself—natural and simple. And
                        there  was no reason why she should conceal as
                        a thing to be ashamed of the fact that Brent had accomplished the purpose he
                        intended, had filled her with honest exultation—not with delight
                        merely, not with triumph, but with that stronger and deeper joy which the
                        unhoped-for pardon brings to the condemned man.
                    She must live on. The thought of suicide, of any form of giving
                        up—the thought that instantly possesses the weak and the
                        diseased—could not find lodgment in that young, healthy body and
                        mind of hers. She must live on; and suddenly she discovered that she could
                        live free! Not after years of doubtful struggles, of
                        reverses, of success so hardly won that she was left exhausted. But
                        now—at once—free! The heavy shackles had
                        been stricken off at a blow. She was free—forever free! Free,
                        forever free, from the wolves of poverty and shame, of want and rags and
                        filth, the wolves that had been pursuing her with swift, hideous padded
                        stride, the wolves that more than once had dragged her down and torn and
                        trampled her, and lapped her blood. Free to enter of her own right the world
                        worth living in, the world from which all but a few are shut out, the world
                        which only a few of those privileged to enter know how to enjoy. Free to
                        live the life worth while—the life of leisure to work, instead of
                        slaving to make leisure and luxury and comfort for others. Free to achieve
                        something beside food, clothing, and shelter. Free to live as she pleased, instead of for the pleasure of a master or masters.
                        Free—free—free! The ecstasy of it surged up in her, for
                        the moment possessing her and submerging even thought of how she had been
                        freed.
                    She who had never acquired the habit of hypocrisy frankly exulted in
                        countenance exultant beyond laughter.  She
                        could conceal her feelings, could refrain from expressing. But if she
                        expressed at all, it must be her true self—what she honestly felt.
                        Garvey hung his head in shame. He would not have believed Susan could be so
                        unfeeling. He would not let his eyes see the painful sight. He would try to
                        forget, would deny to himself that he had seen. For to his shallow,
                        conventional nature Susan's expression could only mean delight in
                        wealth, in the opportunity that now offered to idle and to luxuriate in the
                        dead man's money, to realize the crude dreamings of those lesser
                        minds whose initial impulses toward growth have been stifled by the routine
                        our social system imposes upon all but the few with the strength to persist
                        individual.
                    Free! She tried to summon the haunting vision of the old women with the tin
                        cups of whisky reeling and staggering in time to the hunchback's
                        playing. She could remember every detail, but these memories would not
                        assemble even into a vivid picture—and the picture would have been
                        far enough from the horror of actuality in the vision she formerly could not
                        banish. As a menace, as a prophecy, the old women and the hunchback and the
                        strumming piano had gone forever. Free—secure,
                        independent—free!
                    After a long silence Garvey ventured stammeringly:
                    "He said to me—he asked me to request—he
                        didn't make it a condition—just a wish—a hope,
                        Miss Lenox—that if you could, and felt it strongly
                        enough—"
                    "Wished what?" said Susan, with a sharp impatience that
                        showed how her nerves were unstrung.
                    "That you'd go on—go on with the
                        plays—with the acting."
                    The violet eyes expressed wonder. "Go on?" she  inquired, "Go on?" Then in
                        a tone that made Clélie sob and Garvey's eyes fill she said:
                    "What else is there to live for, now?"
                    "I'm—I'm glad for his sake,"
                        stammered Garvey.
                    He was disconcerted by her smile. She made no other answer—aloud.
                        For his sake! For her own sake, rather. What other life
                        had she but the life he had given her? "And he
                        knew I would," she said to herself. "He said that merely
                        to let me know he left me entirely free. How like him, to do
                        that!"
                    At the hotel she shut herself in; she saw no one, not even Clélie, for nearly
                        a week. Then—she went to work—and worked like a
                        reincarnation of Brent.
                    She inquired for Sperry, found that he and Rod had separated as they no
                        longer needed each other; she went into a sort of partnership with Sperry
                        for the production of Brent's plays—he, an excellent coach
                        as well as stage director, helping her to finish her formal education for
                        the stage. She played with success half a dozen of the already produced
                        Brent plays. At the beginning of her second season she appeared in what has
                        become her most famous part—Roxy in
                        Brent's last play, "The Scandal." With the
                        opening night her career of triumph began. Even the
                        critics—therefore, not unnaturally, suspicious of an actress who
                        was so beautiful, so beautifully dressed, so well supported, and so well
                        outfitted with actor-proof plays—even the critics conceded her
                        ability. She was worthy of the great character Brent had
                        created—the way-ward, many-sided, ever gay Roxy
                            Grandon.
                    
                    When, at the first night of "The Scandal," the audience
                        lingered, cheering Brent's picture thrown upon a drop, cheering
                        Susan, calling her out again and  again,
                        refusing to leave the theater until it was announced that she could answer
                        no more calls, as she had gone home—when she was thus finally and
                        firmly established in her own right—she said to Sperry:
                    "Will you see to it that every sketch of me that appears tomorrow
                        says that I am the natural daughter of Lorella Lenox?"
                    Sperry's Punch-like face reddened.
                    "I've been ashamed of that fact," she went on.
                        "It has made me ashamed to be alive—in the bottom of my
                        heart."
                    "Absurd," said Sperry.
                    "Exactly," replied Susan. "Absurd. Even stronger
                        than my shame about it has been my shame that I could be so small as to feel
                        ashamed of it. Now—tonight—" she was still in her
                        dressing—room. As she paused they heard the faint faraway thunders
                        of the applause of the lingering
                        audience—"Listen!" she cried. "I am
                        ashamed no longer. Sperry, Ich bin ein Ich!"
                    
                    "I should say," laughed he. "All you have to say
                        is 'Susan Lenox' and you answer all
                        questions."
                    "At last I'm proud of it," she went on.
                        "I've justified myself. I've justified my mother.
                        I am proud of her, and she would be proud of me. So—see that
                        it's done, Sperry."
                    "Sure," said he. "You're
                        right."
                    He took her hand and kissed it. She laughed, patted him on the shoulder,
                        kissed him on both cheeks in friendly, sisterly fashion.
                    He had just gone when a card was brought to her—"Dr. Robert
                        Stevens"—with "Sutherland, Indiana,"
                        penciled underneath. Instantly she remembered, and had him brought to
                        her—the man who had rescued her  from
                        death at her birth. He proved to be a quiet, elderly gentleman, subdued and
                        aged beyond his fifty-five years by the monotonous life of the drowsy old
                        town. He approached with a manner of embarrassed respect and deference,
                        stammering old-fashioned compliments. But Susan was the simple, unaffected
                        girl again, so natural that he soon felt as much at ease as with one of his
                        patients in Sutherland.
                    She took him away in her car to her apartment for supper with her and Clélie,
                        who was in the company, and Sperry. She kept him hour after hour,
                        questioning him about everyone and everything in the old town, drawing him
                        out, insisting upon more and more details. The morning papers were brought
                        and they read the accounts of play and author and players. For once there
                        was not a dissent; all the critics agreed that it was a great performance of
                        a great play. And Susan made Sperry read aloud the finest and the longest of
                        the accounts of Brent himself—his life, his death, his work, his
                        lasting fame now peculiarly assured because in Susan Lenox there had been
                        found a competent interpreter of his genius.
                    After the reading there fell silence. Susan, her pallid face and her
                        luminous, inquiring violet eyes inscrutable, sat gazing into vacancy. At
                        last Doctor Stevens moved uneasily and rose to go. Susan roused herself,
                        accompanied him to the adjoining room. Said the old doctor:
                    "I've told you about everybody. But you've told me
                        nothing about the most interesting Sutherlander of
                        all—yourself."
                    Susan looked at him. And he saw the wound hidden from all the
                        world—the wound she hid from herself as much of the time as she
                        could. He, the doctor, the  professional
                        confessor, had seen such wounds often; in all the world there is hardly a
                        heart without one. He said:
                    "Since sorrow is the common lot, I wonder that men can be so selfish
                        or so unthinking as not to help each other in every way to its consolations.
                        Poor creatures that we are—wandering in the dark, fighting
                        desperately, not knowing friend from foe!"
                    "But I am glad that you saved me," said she.
                    "You have the
                        consolations—success—fame—honor."
                    "There is no consolation," replied she in her grave sweet
                        way. "I had the best. I—lost him. I shall spend my life in
                        flying from myself."
                    After a pause she went on: "I shall never speak to anyone as I have
                        spoken to you. You will understand all. I had the best—the man who
                        could have given me all a woman seeks from a man—love,
                        companionship, sympathy, the shelter of strong arms. I had that. I have lost
                        it. So—"
                    A long pause. Then she added:
                    "Usually life is almost tasteless to me. Again—for an hour
                        or two it is a little less so—until I remember what I have lost.
                        Then—the taste is very bitter—very bitter."
                    And she turned away.
                    She is a famous actress, reputed great. Some day she will be indeed
                        great—when she has the stage experience and the years. Except for
                        Clélie, she is alone. Not that there have been no friendships in her life.
                        There have even been passions. With men and women of her vigor and vitality,
                        passion is inevitable. But those she admits find that she has little to
                        give, and they go away, she making no effort to detain them;  or she finds that she has nothing to give,
                        and sends them away as gently as may be. She has the reputation of caring
                        for nothing but her art—and for the great establishment for orphans
                        up the Hudson, into which about all her earnings go. The establishment is
                        named for Brent and is dedicated to her mother. Is she happy? I do not know.
                        I do not think she knows. Probably she is—as long as she can avoid
                        pausing to think whether she is or not. What better happiness can
                        intelligent mortal have, or hope for? Certainly she is triumphant, is lifted
                        high above the storms that tortured her girlhood and early youth, the sordid
                        woes that make life an unrelieved tragedy of calamity threatened and
                        calamity realized for the masses of mankind. The last time I saw
                        her—
                    It was a few evenings ago, and she was crossing the sidewalk before her house
                        toward the big limousine that was to take her to the theater. She is still
                        young; she looked even younger than she is. Her dress had the same exquisite
                        quality that made her the talk of Paris in the days of her sojourn there.
                        But it is not her dress that most interests me, nor the luxury and
                        perfection of all her surroundings. It is not even her beauty—that
                        is, the whole of her beauty.
                    Everything and every being that is individual in appearance has some one
                        quality, trait, characteristic, which stands out above all the rest to make
                        a climax of interest and charm. With the rose it is its perfume; with the
                        bird, perhaps the scarlet or snowy feathers upon its breast. Among human
                        beings who have the rare divine dower of clear individuality the crown and
                        cap of distinction differs. In her—for me, at least—the
                        consummate fascination is not in her eyes, though I am moved by the soft
                        glory of their light, nor in the  lovely oval
                        contour of her sweet, healthily pallid face. No, it is in her
                        mouth—sensitive, strong yet gentle, suggestive of all the passion
                        and suffering and striving that have built up her life. Her
                        mouth—the curve of it—I think it is, that sends from time
                        to time the mysterious thrill through her audiences. And I imagine those who
                        know her best look always first at those strangely pale lips, curved in a
                        way that suggests bitterness melting into sympathy, sadness changing into
                        mirth—a way that seems to say: "I have
                        suffered—but, see! I have stood fast!"
                    Can a life teach any deeper lesson, give any higher inspiration?
                    As I was saying, the last time I saw her she was about to enter her
                        automobile. I halted and watched the graceful movements with which she took
                        her seat and gathered the robes about her. And then I noted her profile, by
                        the light of the big lamps guarding her door. You know that profile? You
                        have seen its same expression in every profile of successful man or woman
                        who ever lived. Yes, she may be happy—doubtless is more happy than
                        unhappy. But—I do not envy her—or any other of the sons
                        and daughters of men who is blessed—and cursed—with
                        imagination.
                    And Freddie—and Rod—and Etta—and the people of
                        Sutherland—and all the rest who passed through her life and out?
                        What does it matter? Some went up, some down—not without reason,
                        but, alas! not for reason of desert. For the judgments of fate are, for the
                        most part, not unlike blows from a lunatic striking out in the dark; if they
                        land where they should, it is rarely and by sheer chance. Ruth's
                        parents are dead; she is married to Sam Wright. He lost his
                        father's money in wheat speculation in Chicago—in one of
                        the  most successful of the
                        plutocracy's constantly recurring raids upon the hoardings of the
                        middle class. They live in a little house in one of the back streets of
                        Sutherland and he is head clerk in Arthur Sinclair's
                        store—a position he owes to the fact that Sinclair is his rich
                        brother-in-law. Ruth has children and she is happier in them than she
                        realizes or than her discontented face and voice suggest. Etta is fat and
                        contented, the mother of many, and fond of her fat, fussy August, the rich
                        brewer. John Redmond—a congressman, a possession of the Beef Trust,
                        I believe—but not so highly prized a possession as was his abler
                        father.
                    Freddie? I saw him a year ago at the races at Auteuil. He is huge and loose
                        and coarse, is in the way soon to die of Bright's disease, I
                        suspect. There was a woman with him—very pretty, very chic. I saw no other woman similarly placed whose eyes held so
                        assiduously, and without ever a wandering flutter, to the face of the man
                        who was paying. But Freddie never noticed her. He chewed savagely at his
                        cigar, looking about the while for things to grumble at or to curse. Rod? He
                        is still writing indifferent plays with varying success. He long since
                        wearied of Constance Francklyn, but she clings to him and, as she is a
                        steady money-maker, he tolerates her.
                    Brent? He is statelily ensconced up at Woodlawn. Susan has never been to his
                        grave—there. His grave in her heart—she avoids that too,
                        when she can. But there are times—there always will be
                        times—
                    If you doubt it, look at her profile.
                    Yes, she has learned to live. But—she has paid the price.
                
            
        
    
