
     ----CITATION---- 
        Hubbard, Kin, 1868-1930. New Sayings and Velma's Vow: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2428
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
                
                    New Sayings BY Abe Martin AND Velma's
                        Vow A Gripping Love Tale by Miss Fawn Lippincut
                
                Abe Martin and Miss Fawn Lippincut belong to Kin Hubbard's colony of
                    Brown County, Indiana, characters, and, along with Tipton Bud,
                    Constable Newt Plum, Pinky Kerr, Miss Tawney Apple and others, are
                    well known to newspaper readers of the United States and
                    Canada.
                
                    ABE MARTIN PUBLISHING CO.
                    Indianapolis ONE DOLLAR NET
            
            
            
            	ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
                Our thanks are due The Indianapolis News for permission
                    to republish the paragraphs in this volume.
            
            
            
                THIS EDITION, THREE HUNDRED COPIES, WAS PRINTED FOR John
                    R. Johnston, Pittsburgh, Pa. NUMBERED FROM ONE TO THREE HUNDRED, OF
                    WHICH THIS IS NO.
                PRESENTED TO
            
        
        
            
            
            	NEW SAYINGS and VELMA'S VOW
                
                    New Sayings
                    
                    By Abe Martin
                    
                    Some folks are allus doin' ther best t' bring about th' worst.
                    Mrs. Tilford Moots intended t' buy an electric t'day, but she had t' stay
                        home an' scrub.
                    Constable Newt Plum has ordered all clocks set an hour ahead durin' th'
                        croquet season.
                    Speakin' o' preparedness, we could use a few more big guns in Congress.
                    Mr. Lemmie Peters, whose graduatin' essay, "This is the Golden Age o'
                        Opportunity," is still fresh in the memory of our people (although it is
                        considerably over a year since he delivered it) has decided t' accept th'
                        position as general sales manager fer th' Nifty Combination Belt an' Razor
                        Strop.
                    
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut went t' th' city t'day t' match a gold fish.
                    Trouble is jest about as hard t' find as a bass drum.
                    It seems like hard earned money has th' best wings.
                    It's a good thing ther haint no seven-passenger canoes.
                    Some fellers' idea o' bein' a sport is smokin' a nickel cigar in a cafe.
                    Movie actors don't have t' work they jest go thro' th' motions.
                    Goin' out o' your way t' help others is often a short cut t' th' poor
                        farm.
                    
                    Who kin recall th' ole time teetotaler who used t' say, "I never take an
                        enemy int' my stomach t' steal my brains away?"
                    Who kin recall th' fine ole days when we had 7-cent bacon, 6-cent eggs,
                        20-cent corn an' th' feller who bathed wuz a dude?
                    Suppose one does become an expert tennis player, then what?
                    Times are so good th' grocery bread box lids are wearin' a dull finish.
                    Another good thing about th' auto is it don't draw flies.
                    Fortune smiles on some folks an' jest seems t' elope with others.
                    
                    Miss Tawney Apple, treasuress o' th' Fairy Grotto, took in an artificial
                        quarter t'day.
                    Of all th' sink or swim propositions th' U-boat takes th' cake.
                    It takes a feller quite a while t' act natural in a auto, but his women folks
                        sink int' th' cushions like they wuz born an' raised in a car.
                    Be careful where you place your confidence an' your pocketbook 'll take care
                        of itself.
                    Th' June bride business wuz light this year, owin' t' th' good times we
                        reckon.
                    What's become o' th' feller who used t' wear shoulder braces?
                    
                    Tell Binkley says corn on th' cob is all right, but beans on th' string is
                        th' limit.
                    If th' rich spent as much as those who run in debt we couldn' take care o'
                        th' business.
                    Th' best way out of it is not t' be in it.
                    Bedford 'll continue t' git along without stationary saloons, th' "drys"
                        havin' won yisterday.
                    Lots o' folks git credit fer knowin' what they're talkin' about when they
                        only remember what they've read.
                    Our people have grown so callous readin' war casualties that you can't git
                        enough folks interested in a funeral t' give a pe-rade.
                    
                    Idle talk gits in its work.
                    Miss Tawney Apple is gettin' so pop'lar that she's had t' set her wrist watch
                        three hours fast.
                    Th' feller who says, "I won't go if I have t' wear a dress suit," means if he
                        has t' borrow one.
                    Miss Mame Moon addressed th' Shakespeare Club t'day on "Th' Effect o'
                        Refrigerator Car Seepin's on Iron Railroad Bridges."
                    Ever'thing is t' be velvet this winterbut not fer father.
                    Another good thing about th' autoafter it's worked all week you don't hate t'
                        drive it on Sunday.
                    
                    You can't beat th' womenskirts are t' be too short this season instead o' too
                        narrow.
                    A new kit o' gold fish has been received at th' Palace Bazar.
                    Anybuddy 'll agree with you if you've been eatin' onions.
                    It must be tryin' t' come out of a warm nickel the-ater an' go int' a cold
                        home.
                    T' git along well a feller ought t' be at least a head taller than his
                        troubles.
                    If ther's anything worse'n a young spendthrift it's a miserly ole man.
                    We all second th' motionpicture.
                    
                    Tell Binkley's brother is visitin' him. He's one o' them progressive farmers
                        that owns an automobile an' buys his milk.
                    Th' bashful tightwad is right at home in a nickel the-ater.
                    Think twice before you speak, an about a week before you write.
                    If you pay cash th' days won't roll by so fast.
                    Th' night school of experience is overcrowded.
                    Many a husband has gone broke bein' fer peace at any price.
                    Popularity should begin at home.
                    
                    Th' feller who wears a sport shirt is jest as likely t' lose by a neck as he
                        is t' win.
                    A straw hat never recovers from its first rain.
                    Lafe Bud says th' honeymoon is over when a wife asks her husband if he wants
                        coffee fer breakfast when she knows perfectly well that he does.
                    Th' feller that's pleased with ever'thing either don't cut any ice or he has
                        somethin' up his sleeve.
                    When a feller says, "It hain't th' money but th' principle o' th' thing," its
                        th' money.
                    Some folks kin live out o' office but they don't thrive.
                    
                    Who remembers when our Presidents were rarely ever in Washington?
                    Stew Nugent says next t' pickin' flowers off a century plant th' easiest snap
                        is bein' a boss canvasman fer an evangelist.
                    Who remembers th' ole time reversible cuffs?
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut says that if she could live some period of her life over
                        again she'd select th' five years she wuz eighteen.
                    Who remembers th' ole anti-rattler cuff buttons?
                    Who remembers when we used t' press th' creases out o' ready-made
                        trousers?
                    
                    A farewell party wuz given t'day fer Miss Tawney Apple, who has been asked t'
                        take a canoe ride t'morrow.
                    Never git in a automobile without a thorough understandin' with th' driver
                        that he is not t' cross a railroad without a two-thirds vote o' other
                        passengers in th' car.
                    Tell Binkley has bought a runabout as it cost too much fer sody an' cigars t'
                        run his tourin' car.
                    Nothin retards digestion like hatin' somebuddy.
                    "Next t' pickin' up a smooth dime with a furnace glove on ther hain't nothin'
                        harder than publishin' a four-page paper in a one-page town," said Editur
                        Fluhart, t'day.
                    
                    Th' consumers are full o' grievances, but ther'll be no strike.
                    One drawback about bein' a loafer is that when th' weather gits insufferably
                        hot you've got t' keep on loafin' jest th' same.
                    Some fellers start down a roastin' ear like ther wuz a valuable prize waitin'
                        'em at th' other end.
                    Two kin live cheaper'n one, but very few girls want t' live that cheap.
                    Knowin' when t' quit talkin' is a fine thing, but knowin' when t' leave is
                        still finer.
                    A woman with a few children allus has an alibi.
                    
                    Miss Tawney Apple has a cousin who's so handsome his father has t' support
                        him.
                    Ther' wuz quite a scare here this mornin' when it wuz learned that a rejected
                        suitor wuz in town.
                    We'd never know some fellers' middle names if ther wives didn' get in th'
                        society column.
                    Mr. Ning Trumbull, o' th' Star grocery, which recently went int' th' hands of
                        a receiver, announces that he'll open a nickel the-ater an' pay dollar fer
                        dollar.
                    Lots o' fellers that walk along with bowed heads these days, git credit fer
                        bein' dejected when they're only lookin' at th' girls' feet.
                    
                    "How Codfish Are Dried" delighted another large an' intelligent audience at
                        th' Nickelodean last night.
                    It seems like nothin' ever gits t' goin' good till ther's a few
                        resignations.
                    Any fool kin git in th' limelight, but it takes a general t' stay there.
                    Pony Mopps is home from a barbers' college smellin' like a potted
                        hyacinth.
                    You can't be a gentleman these days without folks thinkin' you're up t'
                        somethin'.
                    Oscar Moots, th' trusted treasurer o' Th' Lily, Dell nickel the-ater,
                        violated his neutrality yisterday by takin' French leave.
                    
                    Some folks are jest like trained sealsyou've got t' keep handin' 'em
                        somethin'.
                    You kin tell from a car window that most farmers are agin' preparedness.
                    Th' leadin' mystery in ever' neighborhood is how some folks git in th'
                        newspapers so much.
                    Miss Tawney Apple, ticket seller at th' Fairy Grotto, is layin' off t'day
                        while her rings are bein' cleaned.
                    Talk about hungry Democrats, th' Republicans even et th' smilax at a "git
                        t'gether banquet at Melodeon hall last night.
                    An onion a day keeps your friends at bay.
                    
                    Who remembers when ther used t' be a haunted house in ever' neighborhood?
                    What's become o' th' girl who used t' stay t' home 'cause she didn' have
                        hardly a thing t' wear?
                    Miss Birdie Tanger has been approached t' wait table at th' New Palace
                        hut-tel, but she has no bracelet.
                    Mrs. Tilford Moots has a niece that neither smokes or drinks.
                    When a feller begins t' complain o' th' immodesty o' women he's gettin' purty
                        well along in years.
                    I reckon ther wouldn' be enough flowers sold t' bother with a Fathers'
                        Day.
                    
                    Some folks are saddest when they sing an' some are maddest when others
                        sing.
                    One-half the world don't know how th' other half dodges taxes.
                    Give some folks enough rope an' they'll rope you in.
                    In ever' town ther's a feller who never works a lick, 'cept t' run a popcorn
                        an' candy stand on a big day.
                    What's become o' th' donation parties fer preachers that used t' be all th'
                        rage?
                    Prosperity knockers are th' latest.
                    I reckon cabaret singers have t' live, but they're mighty hard on sober
                        people.
                    
                    Some folks are like a skyrocket. They make a noisy git away, bust an' are
                        never heard of agin.
                    Ther's allus a tinge o' sadness about th' passin' of a pair o' comfortable
                        shoes, but jest wait till a faithful tire collapses.
                    Work is so plentiful these days that it's almost impossible t' dodge it.
                    Some folks git ole before they know it an' others never seem t' git on to
                        it.
                    Some girls' idea o' business is resignin' a twelve-dollar job t' marry a
                        seven-dollar husband.
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut says she wouldn' marry th' best man on earth, but we
                        supposed she wuz much younger.
                    
                    You'd think some o' th' candidates wuz after th' woodpecker vote by th' way
                        they tack ther cards on th' telephone poles.
                    A trainin' camp fer th' patriot that fights with his mouth would be a good
                        thing.
                    Ther's nothing like a good front, either in war or in th' resturint
                        business.
                    Miss Tawney Apple spent Sunday at home on account o' th' car shortage.
                    Marry t' suit your parents an' repent at leisure.
                    Our folks wuz greatly surprised t' hear o' th' weddin' o' Ainslee Moots, as
                        he wuz supposed t' be doin' well.
                    
                    Tipton Bud bought a reg'lar nickel cigar this mornin' an' now its rumored
                        he's writin' scenarios or makin' munitions.
                    Ther haint nothin' that makes a bigger hit with a feller than havin' his wife
                        crawl out early an' smilin'ly cook him a good breakfast.
                    Mr. Lemmie Peters, whose graduation essay, "This is Th' Age o' Opportunity,"
                        caused so much favorable comment a year ago, almost took th' agency fer th'
                        Eclipse Fly Swatter yisterday.
                    What's become o' th' ole time friendly acquaintance that used t' ask, "Are
                        you travelin' or goin' somewhere?"
                    You have t' be mighty careful what you say in these days o' rubber heels.
                    
                    Among other little things that'll allus remain a mystery t' th' average
                        layman is how a feller kin resign a ten thousand dollar job.
                    "If I only had the cigarette concession fer th' European war I'd certainly go
                        some," said Lafe Bud, t'day, in apologizin' fer not havin' any cloth-top
                        shoes.
                    Ther haint much peace where you haint got th' price.
                    Lemmie Peters, who graduated with such high honors in June, is assistin' at
                        th' O. K. livery barn durin' rush hours.
                    Stew Nugent's mother has received word from th' authorities of an Illinoy
                        city sayin' he is takin' th' winter short course in broom makin'.
                    
                    Ther's no longer any excuse fer marryin' a how-legged girl without knowin'
                        it.
                    Miss Tawney Apple's uncle is confined t' his home t'day. An', although he is
                        prominent an' well-to-do, th' doctor wont operate.
                    Mrs. Lafe Bud has sued for separate peace.
                    When a girl falls in love th' hair dresser gits hers.
                    Runnin' fer office so you can't notice it is one o' th' latest novelties in
                        politics.
                    Constable Newt Plum, actin' manager o' Melodeon hall, talks some o' closin'
                        th' historical ole playhouse, 'cause you kin see so much on th' street fer
                        nothin.'
                    
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut went t' see th' Dghffihjkzk Rushy ballet, an' says it was
                        th' limit, but well done.
                    A warnin' is all th' average American needs t' make him take a chance.
                    Some folks are too shiftless t' collect ther own thoughts.
                    Th' wife who kin properly brown fried mush is in no immediate danger o'
                        losin' her job.
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut says that after she gits her new high shoes laced she's
                        too tired t' go any place.
                    "One good thing about th' modern dances is that you kin win in a walk," said
                        Miss Tawney Apple t'day.
                    
                    Ther hain't much difference between th' average layman an' th' average
                        drayman when it comes t' understandin' things.
                    Soot, mixed with jest enough turpentine t' make it pasty, is an excellent
                        mustache dye in th' absence o' shoe blackin'. A pinch o' floor wax will add
                        lustre.
                    It's gittin' so you can't tell by th' show bills whether a star is comin' t'
                        town on th' hoof, or on a reel.
                    Th' whole country seems t' be in a constant attitude o' waitin' t' see what
                        women are goin' t' wear next.
                    A chicken thief entered th' home o' Tipton Bud, last night, an' took his
                        remainin' daughter, Ellyn.
                    
                    Remember when you used t' have t' take th' bed ticks t' th' livery stable t'
                        have 'em filled?
                    Th' trouble with walkin' in a pe-rade is that life seems so dull an'
                        colorless afterward.
                    Owin' t' th' price o' shoe leather it's an imposition t' ask a girl t' take a
                        walk unless you're serious.
                    Linn Sap has resigned at th' saw mill an' is follerin' th' war news.
                    When some fellers take a vacation ever'buddy gits a rest.
                    It's a mighty ole fashioned girl that haint in th' "pink" o' condition these
                        days.
                    
                    "My pen is poor, my ink is pale, but my love fer you shall never fail" who
                        remembers when autograph albums wuz all th' rage?
                    If it didn' rain once in a while farmers wouldn' have any time t' pick out
                        autos.
                    When Ez Pash told ole Niles Turner that ther wuz more money in circulation
                        than ever before, he said, "I knowed ther wuz a scarcity of it, but I didn'
                        know wher it wuz."
                    It's a waste o' money t' build a sleepin' porch if you've got a guilty
                        conscience.
                    Stew Nugent dropped in on his mother t'day. He says work is so plentiful out
                        over th' country that he may remain indefinitely.
                    
                    Sayin' you're fer "reasonable" preparedness is only dodgin' th' issue.
                    What's become o' th' ole time blush we could see come an' go?
                    Many a feller would be up an' around t'day if he'd written a note instead o'
                        goin' off half cocked.
                    After a feller gits out o' th' school o' experience it's too late t' git t'
                        th' front.
                    Mexico, which has been purty bad fer eighty years, is about th' same
                        t'day.
                    Kindergartens fer little tots in th' winter, an trainin' camps fer 'em in th'
                        summer, makes us naturally wonder what's become o' th' old time mother.
                    
                    Tell Binkley has quit readin' war news an' 'll wait fer th' unbiased
                        historian.
                    A few grouches are necessary t' hold down th' enthusiasts.
                    Jeff Moots drove t' town t'day fer th' border news.
                    As a rule th' feller who's stuck on himself don't bother anybuddy else.
                    Ther's a growin' tendency among tourin' car builders t' push th' owner's nose
                        closer t' th' windshield an' provide all th' luxury fer th' nonproducers in
                        th' back seat.
                    Lafe Bud's uncle an' two cousins wuz killed in a auto, yisterday, by a train
                        which refused t' change its course.
                    
                    Th' time t' start an argument with your wife is jest before you have t' go
                        down town.
                    If Uncle Sam buys th' Danish West Indies it'll he a dandy place fer our
                        clarinet players t' practice.
                    Nobuddy kin write as purty a letter as th' feller who's "sorry, but can't be
                        with you."
                    Mrs. Tipton Bud's uncle met with a serious auto accident t'day, owin' t' a
                        near-sighted windshield.
                    Envy an' malice tell on you quicker'n runnin' a farm single-handed.
                    Folks who look th' worst complain th' least.
                    
                    Mr. Lemmie Peters, who graduated with such high honors last June, offers his
                        services as a rug beater an' solicits a share o' th' public patronage.
                    Mrs. Tipton Bud has been asked t' join th' Colonial Bridge Club, but she has
                        no fireless cooker.
                    One o' th' best kinds o' preparedness is makin' friends.
                    Mr. an' Mrs. Leslie Moon have returned from their weddin' trip an' joined th'
                        survivors o' Niagary Falls.
                    A censor fer underwear advertisements would help some.
                    Some folks might as well be in th' soup as th' way they eat it.
                    
                    We're never so positive about anything as we are about somethin' we're wrong
                        about.
                    Constable Newt Plum has a brother who's so poor he has three dogs.
                    Some folks die with ther boots on, an' others nearly die with ther shoes
                        on.
                    Mr. Dwight Moon, whose marriage t' Miss Aroma Moots wuz a social event long
                        t' be remembered, has joined th' army, th' separation comin' as a great
                        surprise t' th' many friends o' th' young couple.
                    Some folks pride 'emselves on bein' agreeable when ther only silly.
                    Nonproducers make th' severest critics.
                    
                    "I've been a war bride all my life," said Mrs. Lafe Bud as she bought some
                        witch hazel, this mornin'.
                    Who kin recall when it never even occurred t' a medical student t' begin
                        practice without a thick, mossy heard?
                    Th' Mexicans couldn' he worse neighbors if they kept a phonergraf.
                    What's become o' th' girl who used t' be nifty about her hats an' sloppy
                        about her feet?
                    Some folks go t' a fortune teller an' others go t' work an' take chances.
                    A woman allus smiles when she says she's awfully sorry.
                    
                    An amateur show is good if it's bad an' awful if it's good.
                    It's a wonder that more people are not run down by automobiles when we
                        consider th' way th' girls are dressin'.
                    There'll be a free fer all trot at Melodeon hall t'night.
                    Lemmie Peters, who graduated with such high honors in June, is lookin' fer
                        somethin' light an' remunerative.
                    Who remembers when only th' leadin' saloon keeper got shaved ever' day an'
                        wore a diamond?
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut has been asked t' recite fer nothin' at a social t'night.
                        Such is fame.
                    
                    It's a lucky girl that's got a little sister's clothes t' fall back on these
                        days.
                    A lamp exploded at th' home o' Tipton Bud, last evenin' jest as th' family
                        was splittin' up fer th' various nickel theaters.
                    Practice may make perfect, but jest th' same th' feller who hardly ever
                        shoots off his mouth allus hits th' mark.
                    Nobuddy ever says anything about a 8hour day fer President Wilson.
                    "Of all th' earthly disappointments ther hain't nothin' as crushin' as
                        waitin' around home all day fer an altered garment t' be delivered, and then
                        find it hain't been altered," says Miss Fawn Lippincut.
                    
                    Lafe Bud talks some o' opening a garage fer vacuum cleaners.
                    We all git what's comin' t' us whether we wait or keep movin'.
                    If it wuzn' fer th' fellers who are born with silver spoons in ther mouths,
                        where would we git all our house t' house canvassers?
                    Some folks pay ther respects like it wuz takin' their last cent.
                    Th' free list has been suspended fer th' comin' weddin' o' Miss Plump Bud an
                        Oscar Pash.
                    Some people are so sensitive that they feel snubbed if an epidemic overlooks
                        'em.
                    
                    Th' more money folks have th' greater somethin' fer nothin' appeals t'
                        'em.
                    A new broom sweeps clean, but a new dress don't any more.
                    Th' hoss may be replaced, but hoss radish never.
                    Melodean hall is to be equipped with steam heat fer classic dancers.
                    Fellers who look like Bryan are hardly noticed any more.
                    It's th' good loser that finally loses out.
                    Joe Lark, long mourned as dead, called at Republican headquarters t'day an'
                        give himself up.
                    
                    Girls' shins 'll be allowed t' roam again this winter.
                    Spring in winter is never up t' any good.
                    Mr. Lemuel Akers, rated as th' wealthiest man in th' county a few years ago,
                        died a grocer here yisterday.
                    "I'd rather break in a mustang pony than a new hair cut," said Pinky Kerr, t'
                        day
                    Th' feller who wears eyeglasses allus gits credit fer knowin' twice as much
                        as he really does.
                    Wherever ther's a social gatherin' you'll allus hear, "I wonder what she sees
                        in him?"
                    
                    What's become o' th' ole time mother who let her boy wear curls till he wuz
                        ten years ole? An' what became o' th' boy?
                    We often wonder how ex-President Taft would have stood th' confinement if he
                        had been re-elected.
                    No matter how late spring is, it allus catches our livers off th' job.
                    Strawberry short cake is another thing that's designed especially fer smooth
                        faced people.
                    Th' most ardent advocate o' anything is th' feller who can't lose.
                    It's all right t' be a party worker, but it's often hard on th' party you
                        work.
                    
                    Who remembers when a feller used t' give up at fifty an' raise a nice beard
                        an' settle down?
                    Th' feller who raises a garden, like th' feller who marries fer money, never
                        figures in his labor.
                    "Carranza may be all right, but he looks too much like an authority on bee
                        culture t' suit me," said ole Niles Turner t'day.
                    Tipton Bud is goin' t' give his wife a new electric jest as soon as we catch
                        Villa.
                    Ambrose Spry, orator, lawyer, author, philosopher, one time owner o' one o'
                        th' most complete general libraries in th' state an' ardent cigar butt
                        collector, wuz taken t' th' poor farm t'day.
                
                
                
                    Velma's Vow
                    By Miss Fawn Lippincut
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    To the Reader.
                                    There is a popular belief that novel writing is very
                                        difficult. It is not. Very few problems come up during the
                                        writing of a novel that cannot be readily mastered. There
                                        are certain things about trees and flowers which have to be
                                        looked up, and there are peculiarities about certain
                                        sections of our country (and perhaps other countries) that
                                        one should have a general knowledge of in order to be a
                                        strong, forceful novelist. Some very excellent novels are
                                             ruined through too little
                                        attention being given to seemingly trivial things. The same
                                        may be said of plays. I have in mind a certain play in
                                        particular wherein a character in a very effective scene is
                                             made to say, "Ah, nature
                                        has been teaching us a lesson. See, a pretty meadow lark has
                                        built her nest in the mouth of this rusty cannon!" As a
                                        matter of fact, a meadow lark was never known to build its
                                        nest anywhere except flat on the ground. In "Velma's Vow" I
                                        have tried to have everything blooming at the right time,
                                        and I am sure that none of the stirring situations which
                                        show the trials and tribulations which beset my heroine at
                                        every turn in her path to happiness is overdrawn. Indeed
                                        life itself is too melodramatic to need any embellishment
                                        from us novel writers. I have penned this simple tale, dear
                                        reader, with the hope that it will be the means of bringing
                                        many to realize that riches and grand surroundings are no
                                        match for fate, and that only the truest love can batter
                                        down the forces that all too often obstruct the road to real
                                        happiness.
                                    
                                        MISS FAWN LIPPINCUT.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        VELMA DALE'S VOW
                        It is June and she is bending beneath her weight of roses, which ornament
                            the halls and bowers which summer has hung with green. In June we think
                            of Herrick's Sappho, and how the roses were always white until they
                            tried to rival her fair complexion, and, blushing for shame because they
                            were vanquished, have ever since been red. Like splashes of fire the
                            wild roses blaze through the shadowy green of the underwood, as if to
                            throw a light on the lesser flowers that grow about their feet. As
                            Wilfred Deming and Velma Dale walked along they came to a gray old stile
                            that had stood the bleaching summer suns and cold, white winters for
                            many years. They sat down to rest after a long walk through the sylvan
                            wood. Soon darkness was upon them, and only the low murmurings of the
                            two lovers broke the sombre silence.  Back
                            of them was the cool, deep forest, while between them and the faint
                            flickering lights of the town was a wide sweep of rolling velvety
                            alfalfa. The heavens were studded with stars.
                        "Is Saturn out tonight, my love?" asked Wilfred Deming, of the girlish
                            form by his side.
                        "I hain't saw her," she answered in a low, musical, dreamy voice.
                        Wilfred Deming and Velma Dale had been lovers since first they meta year
                            ago, when Velma had been brought from her Southern home to become the
                            ward of Colonel Mount Severn, and the mistress of his palatial home. She
                            was a pronounced blonde of singular beauty, graceful and willowy, and
                            combined with her wonderful charms was a sweet intellectual saneness
                            incredible as it may seem. Her mother, who had passed on at her birth,
                            had been a famous Creole beauty, while her father was a sprout of a
                            proud old Virginia family, and long identified  with the diplomatic service of his country, so it had been
                            said. Wilfred Deming was a handsome, romantic looking youth whose
                            classic features and shinola hair stamped him at once as an ideal lover.
                            He had made his way by hanging paper in the summer and studying in the
                            winter, and was, at the beginning of this tale, a distinguished member
                            of the bar, and occasionally spoken of as a possible candidate for
                            prosecuting attorney of his county. He was to make Velma Dale his wife
                            at eight o'clock on the following night, and as they walked home through
                            the wet alfalfa, he said, pressing her gently to his heart and kissing
                            her passionately, "Oh, Velma, if anything should happen to part us now I
                            do not believe I could continue the practice of law."
                        "Silly boy, dismiss such horrid thoughts from your darling mind. Standing
                            here in this dew laden alfalfa I vow that nothing, not even fate, shall
                            ever part us," said Velma, looking far into Wilfred's  soft, dark eyes. It was indeed an
                            impressive moment in the lives of these two young, handsome and arduous
                            lovers two hearts with but a single thought, and that thought lovelong,
                            sweet, enduring love. How little they knew of the pitfalls of love.
                            Presently they passed the tanyard and veered to the right and eventually
                            stood in the beautiful marble rotunda of Colonel Mount Severn's mansion,
                            where they parted in the usual manner.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        THE MYSTERIOUS BLONDE STRANGER
                        The shades of evening were gathering and Wilfred Deming was as busy as an
                            east-bound tramp. In two short hours he was to become the husband of
                            Velma Dale, and as he paused in front of his mirror he said to himself,
                            "Surely I should be the happiest of men. I am handsome and have health
                            and a good law practice, and to crown it all, fate  has decreed that I am to marry the dearest girl in all the
                            world in two hours." Seizing a hand-mirror he was about to take a
                            parting glance at his profile when a dreadful fear came o'er him and his
                            face grew deathly white. Dropping the mirror he drew back as if stung.
                            "What what if something terrible should happen, even now, to ruin my
                            dream of happiness?" Then Velma Dale's vow, "Nothing shall ever part us,
                            not even fate," came back t' him and the old happy light returned to his
                            perfect eyes. As he turned about a marvelously beautiful blonde stranger
                            dashed into the room breathless and excited and stood before him. "Tell
                            metell me," he fairly commanded between his even, pearly teeth, "are you
                            Wilfred Deming and are you to marry a girl tonight who calls herself
                            Velma Dale?"
                        "Who are you, and by what right," Wilfed Deming got no further, for the
                            Apollo like figure before him exclaimed 
                            half triumphantly, "Ah, I knew I was right. Thank God I have arrived in
                            time to save you from the cunning trap Colonel Mount Severn and this
                            girl has set for you. Velma Dale is my wife!!"
                        Before Wilfred Deming could recover his senses the dashing stranger
                            bounded through the open window with the agility of a panther. Stunned
                            and weak he gathered himself together and tried to think. It was now but
                            an hour till he would be due to lead Velma Dale to the altar. Suddenly
                            he recalled that she had once told him that her life before coming to
                            the home of Colonel Mount Severn had been filled with sadness. He
                            remembered, too, that every reference to her life in the south clouded
                            her beautiful face with sadness. "Ah," said Wilfred Deming, half
                            addressing himself, "she has been hiding some ugly secret from me."
                            Almost unconsciously he tore his wedding raiment from his body and
                            jumped into a sack suit. Then almost 
                            absent-mindedly he chucked a few belongings into his black all-leather
                            traveling bag and stood as if in deep thought. "She has fooled me," he
                            hissed. Then he hurriedly wrote a note and dispatched it to Velma with
                            all haste. Then he ordered his powerful extra noisy twelve-cylinder
                            runabout, with full floating rear axle, and soon he had left Velma Dale
                            and all far behind him. "Velma Dale and all" is right, for Wilfred
                            Deming belonged to that little coterie of men who love but once and
                            deep, and for whom, when tricked or foiled in affairs of the heart, life
                            holds no further charms. So, out into the world dashed Wilfred Deming a
                            broken and aimless wanderer.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        FATE INTERVENES
                        Velma Dale had quite tired of looking at herself and arose from her
                            exquisite mahogany dressing table of rare design.  Her boudoir was indeed a picture of loveliness with its
                            rich decorations, beautiful furniture, and priceless bric-a-brac. "How I
                            wish that every girl in the world could be as happy as I am at this
                            moment," she said to herself, with a pretty arched expression, for there
                            was not a selfish hair in Velma Dale's shapely head, although she was
                            beautiful.
                        She had asked to be alone for the last hour of her single life for a
                            little mental reflection. She knew that unless her great full-length
                            French mirror had played her false she was indeed beautiful that her
                            carmine lips were brilliant and full, the color of her oval face
                            wonderful, her form divine. and her beautiful deep violet eyes all that
                            had been claimed for them. These facts hardly satisfied Velma, so she
                            had made a thorough search of her innermost soul to see if there could
                            be lodged therein one single unworthy thought. In this she had not been
                            successful and she gloried in the 
                            consciousness of knowing that she was in every way worthy of one so
                            grand as Wilfred Deming, the one man in all the world she loved with a
                            love so deep and pure that nothing short of death itself could destroy.
                            As she stood wrapped in ecstacy she could hear the merry chatter of the
                            guests in the wide marble halls beneath herthe swish of fluttering
                            bridesmaids, the happy laughter of the ring bearers, the rumble of ice
                            cream trucks, and all the noises incident to a fashionable wedding. She
                            still had twenty minutes before it would be time for Wilfred to call for
                            her, and as she turned again to the mirror she heard a faint rap at her
                            door.
                        "Open it yourself, I have my white gloves on," she called lightly.
                        The door opened and Nanette, her maid, handed her a letter and withdrew.
                            Something seemed to tell Velma to prepare for the worst. As she braced
                            herself against the wall and studied the 
                            handwriting a deathly pallor enveloped her beautiful face. "Why be so
                            foolish?" she asked herself, with a laugh which was musical enough, but
                            noticeably shy on many of the elements of the genuine. Then tearing the
                            letter she gazed upon it only for an instant, then staring wildly into
                            space her beautiful eyes slowly closed, and she seemed to melt into the
                            rich and costly rug at her feet. At that very moment Colonel Mount
                            Severn entered and stood aghast at the spectacle that met his eyes.
                            Rushing forward he gathered Velma in his arms and tenderly placed her on
                            a carved divan. "Oh, my pretty one, the fairest flower of all
                            Christendom, what has happened?" Poor Velma's eyes opened slowly and as
                            she gazed into Colonel Mount Severn's kindly face she said feebly, "Let
                            me die." In a hurried search of Velma's boudoir for a possible assailant
                            Colonel Mount Severn's eyes fell upon the crumpled letter which had
                            fallen from her  hand. Grabbing it up like
                            a hungry wolf he read:
                        "Velma Farewell, From your crushed and broken
                            Wilfred."
                        All was plain now to Colonel Mount Severn, who said to himself, "The
                            scoundrel, he has gotten cold feet!" Quietly he summoned his housekeeper
                            and bade her dismiss the guests, adding, in tones scarcely audible,
                            "There will be no wedding. Fate has intervened."
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV.
                        VELMA IS PROMISED A CHANGE OF SCENE
                        It was a full fortnight before poor Velma Dale had sufficient strength to
                            resume her old place before her mirror. The awful shock caused by
                            Wilfred Deming's cruel and strange behavior had transformed her into a
                            wan and trembling  shadow of her former
                            self. When she noted the changes her mirror revealed she at once crawled
                            from her boudoir to a vine covered balcony which overlooked the cool
                            fountain in the gorgeous tropical garden below and wearily climbed into
                            a wicker chair. Presently Colonel Mount Severn, who was taking his usual
                            morning stroll along the pebbly walk which wound among a profusion of
                            rare and fragrant blooms, attracted her and she feebly called to him. He
                            was soon at her side and, gently fondling her white wasted hands, he
                            looked into her great sad eyes and said, "My darling child, aren't you
                            taking long chances in disobeying your doctor's orders by leaving your
                            room so soon?" Colonel Mount Severn was by no means an old man in the
                            general acceptance of the term, but he had reached that age when a word
                            from his physician was all that was necessary.
                        "Oh, please, Colonel Mount Severn, if you ever cared for my poor dead
                            father  take me away from this hateful
                            place or I shall die," said Velma, in great anguish.
                        "Oh, my darling child, you are not strong enough to travel. You must be
                            patient until you grow stronger. Try for my sake to dismiss Wilfred
                            Deming from your mind. He is unworthy of even a thought from one so good
                            and beautiful."
                        "Stop, Colonel Mount Severn! I love Wilfred Deming with all my heart, but
                            I will die if you do not take me away from herehere where I have known
                            so many happy hours. Everything about the place seems to stare at me in
                            scorn. The very sunflowers seem to nod, 'We told you so.' I can't bear
                            it, so take me away, do take me away!" poor Velma sobbed.
                        Colonel Mount Severn now realized that it was useless to plead with his
                            sorrowing ward. "Ah, sweet child," he said soothingly, at the same time
                            caressing her gently. "we shall set about at  once to find some quiet retreat with the hope that a change of scene
                            will restore you to health and happiness."
                        It was the servants' faces and the old trysting places where she and
                            Wilfred had spent so many happy hours that Velma wished never to see
                            again. As for health and happiness they were to be her's no more.
                        "Ah, I have it," said Colonel Mount Severn, who had stood for some
                            moments in a ponder, "We shall go to The Crags, my country home by the
                            sea. I had quite forgotten such a place existed. I shall dispatch a
                            message at once to Wiggins to have all preparations made for our coming.
                            I know that the grand old trees, the romantic rocks, wooded retreats and
                            the healing breezes from the sea will soon bring the roses back to the
                            cheeks of my little girl."
                        So Velma was to go to The Crags, but not with the hope of regaining her
                            strength and color, and certainly not  with
                            the hope that the wild and classic beauty of the retreat would heal her
                            bleeding heart. "That," said she, "is broken beyond repair."
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER V.
                        VELMA'S LIFE STORY
                        It was a sad little party which was rolling along to The CragsVelma,
                            Nanette, her maid, and Colonel Mount Severn. Oakdale, the nearest
                            station to The Crags, was perhaps an hour away when Velma took Colonel
                            Mount Severn's hands in her own and looked into his kindly face and
                            said, "Please tell me something of my life before you brought me to my
                            home in the North. Tell me how I passed the long blank days that
                            followed my fall from papa's touring car."
                        "My pretty child, your mother died at your birth, and your father, who
                            was my nearest and dearest friend, sold his  fine old estate near New Orleans and took you to live with him in the
                            family of a dear acquaintance in the city. It was at this juncture in
                            your life that I first met your father. As you know you were educated by
                            private tutors until you reached the age of fourteen, when you were
                            placed in a fashionable academy for girls. One day, after you had spent
                            two years in this academy, you received word that your father, who had
                            been abroad on a diplomatic errand, was to return and you journeyed to
                            New Orleans to meet him. As you know it was during your visit to your
                            father that you were thrown from his automobile. As a result of that
                            accident your mind was shatteredyour memory became a blank for two whole
                            years. During that period you were placed in the Magnolia Sanatorium, a
                            most exclusive retreat, and attended by the world's most skilled
                            specialists. Your poor father did not live to see you restored  to perfect health again. He died of fever
                            a few weeks before I took you from the sanatorium. Your father was my
                            best friend and his dying wish was that I assume his place and ever
                            watch over his only daughter and safeguard her happiness and the fortune
                            he left her. Ah, Velma, no girl can boast of finer parentageno child was
                            ever better born than you. But let us not think of the past, for now
                            only the future concerns us," said Colonel Mount Severn.
                        "How did the awful automobile accident happen?" asked Velma,
                            dreamily.
                        "The real facts, I fear, my darling, will never be known. Your father was
                            driving at the rate of eight miles an hour, and, in turning out to spare
                            the life of a little child which had crawled into the roadway, it is
                            presumed that either the brakes did not work, or that he put his foot on
                            the accelerator by mistake."
                        * * * * * * * * * * * *
                        But there was one adventure in the life  of
                            the pale, sad beauty beside him to which Colonel Mount Severn did not
                            refer. One day after Velma had been at the Magnolia Sanatorium something
                            over a year, a dashing young interne, who was madly in love with her
                            despite her mental condition, stole her from the institution and drove
                            rapidly to the home of a minister, where a marriage ceremony was
                            performed. Her nurse gave the alarm and the pursuing party overtook the
                            fugitives just as they were leaving the minister's home. Dazed and
                            listless Velma was returned to the sanatorium, while the handsome young
                            scamp who had spirited her away was turned over to the law and later
                            sent to prison. The marriage, of course, was hastily annulled, since the
                            condition of Velma's mind made it illegal. This is one chapter of Velma
                            Dale's life which Colonel Mount Severn was determined should ever remain
                            closed to her.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VI.
                        WILFRED DEMING'S MAD FLIGHT
                        After whizzing for many miles through a gauntlet of fiery azalias,
                            Wilfred Deming had stopped his car in the cool shade of a moss-draped
                            woods to drink in the fragrance of the tangled jassamine vines and give
                            his engine a much needed rest. It had been over two weeks since the blow
                            fell which promised to shatter his whole future life. Many times he had
                            been on the verge of turning his great car around and dashing back to
                            Velma Dale, the only girl he could ever love. But each time he recalled
                            the dark, troubled shadows which fell across her wonderful face when her
                            early life was mentioned, and he would say to himself, "No, the
                            beautiful creature is false. Her life holds some dreadful secret," and
                            then he would throw his powerful machine wide open and push ahead all
                            the faster, whither he knew not. He was now in  the Southland, and sometimes, when he passed through some
                            particularly romantic and restful hamlet, the thought would come to him
                            that he might stop and begin the practice of law among new faces and new
                            surroundings. But the face of Velma Dale ever haunted him, and her false
                            vow in the wet alfalfa, "Not even fate shall part us," rang in his ears.
                            No, there was to be no rest for Wilfred Deming's troubled heart this
                            side of eternity and he knew it, so he pressed the accelerator all the
                            harder and, unmindful of all speed laws and human life, on he dashed
                            o'er hill and dale.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VII.
                        THE CRAGS
                        As Velma and Colonel Mount Severn, followed by faithful Nanette, alighted
                            at Oakdale they were met by Wiggins and escorted to a light car of
                            popular brand. As they started up the wide white road  leading to The Crags a blonde youth of
                            striking beauty caught Velma's eye and she uttered a low cry. Nanette
                            noticed it but said nothing. As they moved along the beautiful angling
                            road Colonel Mount Severn tried to interest Velma in the surpassing
                            beauty of the scenery, the great rocks and trees. Occasionally they
                            would catch a glimpse of the sea. Indeed the country about The Crags was
                            the most beautiful upon the continent and anyone less gentle than
                            Colonel Mount Severn would have grown impatient at Velma's indifference.
                            Only once did she reveal the least interest in the charming scenes that
                            met the eye at every turn. They were passing through a deep, cool
                            valley, through which a sparkling stream gurgled merrily as if in happy
                            anticipation of eventually lending it's tiny help to swell the roaring
                            sea beyond. "Oh, how cool and restful," said Velma, half to herself. But
                            Colonel Mount Severn caught her words and an  expression of great satisfaction lighted up his splendid face. "Ah,
                            my darling child, you shall indeed find rest in the hills and valleys
                            about The Crags," said he. But little did Colonel Mount Severn know of
                            the trials and tribulations that awaited his fair ward in the quiet
                            seclusion of his grand old estate.
                        Soon the party alighted before the great steps leading to the huge pile
                            of rock and mortar that looked more like a convention hall for bats than
                            the country home of a rich and cultured gentleman. The awful gloom of
                            the wide entrance hall palled on Velma, while the almost creepy
                            appearance of the bent and gnarled wife of the aged keeper caused her to
                            draw back with fear.
                        "Ah, rather a gloomy prospect," said Colonel Mount Severn, "but wait, my
                            dear, the rooms are beautifully furnished and overlook scenes that for
                            beauty and ruggedness cannot be duplicated anywhere else in all the
                            world."
                        
                        But Velma said to herself, as she climbed the wide easy stairs, "It
                            hain't scenery I want, I want my Wilfred, without whose love the world
                            will always be a desert waste to me."
                        The room Velma was to occupy was indeed beautiful and adorne in the
                            richest fashion. Going to one of the wide low windows she looked to the
                            ground below, and with a low cry she withdrew and threw herself across a
                            rich rug. Colonel Mount Severn thought it only a fit of melancholy and
                            Velma was tenderly placed on a low, soft bed and left to herself.
                            Melancholy, indeed! As Velma looked from the window the same handsome
                            young blonde that caught her eye at the Oakdale station and affected her
                            so strangely was standing just below. She feared it was only a feverish
                            apparition and mentioned it to no one, not even to cheery Nanette. But
                            now Velma was glad to be far, far away from the town house of Colonel
                            Mount Severn.  In her new environment she
                            promised herself that she would try to live till Wilfred Deming would
                            repent and reoffer her his love on bended knees.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VIII.
                        COLONEL MOUNT SEVERN'S GREAT SORROW
                        Velma Dale had been at The Crags for two months but the fine air and
                            restful quiet of the place had made little if any improvement in her
                            health. Each day Colonel Mount Severn had taken her for long rides
                            through the hills with the hope that the old color would return to her
                            cheeks. Some miles from The Crags there lived a charming elderly lady, a
                            Mrs. Moreland, whose beautiful, sad face bore every mark of refinement
                            and culture. Colonel Mount Severn and Velma had made her acquaintance,
                            and many were the visits they made to her pretty cottage, which was a
                            veritable bower of lovely blooms. "How I would love to know  her past," remarked Velma one day to
                            Colonel Mount Severn, after a visit to their friend.
                        "Perhaps some great sorrow has come to her in the past the same as great
                            sorrows come to all of us, Velma," said Colonel Mount Severn, with some
                            emotion, "but we must try to forget themtry to be happy and live for the
                            future. I fear, my dear, that you still grieve for the unworthy young
                            scoundrel"
                        "Please don't, Colonel Mount Severn! I still love Wilfred Deming. I am
                            afraid you do not understand what it is to love someone with all your
                            heart and soul," said Velma, weeping freely.
                        "Ah, my precious child, you do not know the great sorrow of my life. I
                            have had much to forgetmuch to live downthough I alone was to blame.
                            Thirty years ago I loved and married a beautiful creature. The few weeks
                            we lived together were very happy. My business at that time required
                            that I make  long and perilous expeditions
                            into the interior of South America. The dangers and hardships of such
                            trips made it impossible for my wife to accompany meso I left her
                            behind. Once, after being absent a few weeks, I got lost in the jungles
                            and was later seized with fever. Cut off from all communication with my
                            darling, I was a helpless invalid for three years. When I returned
                            homesheshe was gonegone forever. I have searched the world for her, but
                            in vain."
                        Neither Velma or Colonel Mount Severn spoke another word during the
                            remainder of their ride. How Velma sympathized with him! Yet it did her
                            soul good to know that someone else beside herself had been up against
                            it.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IX.
                        VELMA ENCOUNTERS THE MYSTERIOUS BLONDE
                        The next morning Velma was up bright and early. Presently she was
                            strolling  along a favorite path which led
                            to a huge rock overlooking the sea. She had no fear, and as she walked
                            along she mused over Colonel Mount Severn's great sorrow. Then she
                            thought of the day and how beautiful it was. She wondered what Wilfred
                            Deming could be doing, and how he could possibly reconcile his
                            conscience after his shameful treatment of her. Soon she was sitting on
                            the great rock. The soft sea breezes moved her beautiful tresses. Her
                            dainty feet were crossed and she was studying her poor hands, once so
                            dimpled and pretty. Hearing a slight rustle she looked around and beheld
                            the same handsome, romantic, blonde youth she had first seen on her
                            arrival at Oakdale station, and later about The Crags. Poor Velma was
                            terror stricken. "Pardon me, are you Velma Dale?" asked the strikingly
                            beautiful intruder. Velma had partially recovered her senses and said,
                            trembingly,  "Who and what are you, sir, to
                            thus intrude on one so miserable as I?"
                        "Speak! Are you Velma Dale? Don't you know me? Do you want to know the
                            whereabouts of the brute who deserted you on your wedding eve? Speak!
                            Don't you know me?" hissed the blonde mystery, his wonderful eyes first
                            flashing fire and then melting into an irresistible softness.
                        "Begone sir, or I shall scream!" said Velma. But no sooner had the words
                            escaped her lips until the mysterious stranger rushed forward and
                            attempted to grasp her. As he did so Velma drew backback into the sea
                            two thousand feet below.
                        "What a muss I've made of things," said the wonderfully handsome b'onde.
                            Then lighting a cigarette he stood for an instant rolling the situation
                            over in his mind. Then he leisurely fled from the scene.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER X.
                        SORROW AT THE CRAGS
                        There was great consternation at The Crags when Velma failed to return.
                            Colonel Mount Severn scoured the hills and valleys. Finally the keenest
                            of metropolitan detectives were brought to The Crags and made conversant
                            with every fact relating to Velma's life which might help them in
                            solving her strange disappearance, but day after day passed long weary
                            daysand still no trace of her could be found. Finally Colonel Mount
                            Severn despaired of ever seeing his beautiful ward again, and he
                            presented a sad spectacle indeed as he moped about his great estate a
                            changed and broken man.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XI.
                        WILFRED DEMING'S FRIGHTFUL EXPERIENCE
                        Wilfred Deming had about abandoned the idea that he would ever he able to
                                 forget Velma Dale, false or true. His
                            long, aimless trips about the country in his twelve cylinder car were
                            eating into his savings at a high rate of speed. He did not know what to
                            do, and often went in the ditch while wrapt in deep thought. One bright
                            morning while he was spinning along at forty-five miles an hour on a
                            perfect road bordering a magnificient country estate the despair which
                            held him in its torturing embrace made him desperate and he decided to
                            increase his speed. Blowing a tire, he halted directly in front of a
                            picturesque chapel house which stood near the road. When he was ready to
                            resume his journey five great automobiles whizzed up containing a
                            wedding party. For some unaccountable reason a strange desire seized him
                            to remain awhile and see the ceremony. As he watched the gay party enter
                            the chapel he suddenly drew back and assumed an ashy pallor. Could he be
                            mistaken? Did his eyes deceive him? Was 
                            the handsome lithe blonde who leaned attentively on the arm of the
                            queenly bride the mysterious stranger who warned him against Velma Dale
                            on the evening he was to marry her? In an instant he confronted the pair
                            and exclaimed, "Stop sir," addressing the insipid, though really
                            handsome blonde. "Don't you know me? I am Wilfred Deming. Have you
                            forgotten the night you came to my chamber to warn me against marrying
                            Velma Dale, saying that she was your wife? Now, I find you about to wed
                            this trusting girl. Explain, before I train you!!"
                        "It's a lie, I swear it! What damnable scheme is this to ruin me? Quick,
                            friends, the man is crazy!" roared the light complexioned snip, with a
                            voice out of all keeping with his frail though attractive physique. The
                            wedding party had withdrawn to a far corner of the chapel, and before
                            Wilfred Deming could deliver the well-aimed blow he had in  mind, the blonde felled him to the floor
                            with a heavy cane.
                        "What does this mean, you adventurer? You thought to steal my daughter,
                            you bigamist! Fool that I was for not inquiring into your past life!
                            Away with you!" said the irate father of the bride-to-be, who now
                            realized that his daughter had been tricked. The young blonde stood as
                            if stunned. Then, realizing that his scheme had failed, he started to
                            leave the chapel, gazing as he did so on the apparently lifeless form of
                            Wilfred Deming. "My God," said he, "have I added another murder to my
                            long list of crimes?" Then, directing a scornful look which took in the
                            whole party, he hissed, "My curses on you all!" and hurriedly jumped
                            into Wilfred Deming's powerful roadster. Soon a curtain of dust hid him
                            from the amazed wedding party.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XII.
                        THE MYSTERIOUS BLONDE AGAIN
                        The next morning after Wilfred Deming's costly interference at the
                            chapel, Wiggins, the keeper of The Crags, was driving to Oakdale when he
                            came upon a badly wrecked, but erstwhile powerful roadster, by the
                            wayside, from underneath which protruded the neatly booted foot of a
                            man. After extricating the fellow from the tangled mass of iron and
                            Spanish leather he placed him in his own car of light and popular brand
                            and hurriedly returned to The Crags. There was still a spark of life in
                            the bruised and bleeding body of the young man, and Colonel Mount Severn
                            ordered that everything possible he done to save his life. After some
                            days he regained consciousness and was soon able to sit up. One day as
                            he was sitting propped up in an easy chair on the balcony basking in the
                                 sunlight, Colonel Mount Severn,
                            attracted by his golden hair and wonderful beauty, approached him and
                            said, placing his hand on his shoulder in a kindly fashion, "Now, my
                            young man, maybe you feel strong enough to tell us something of
                            yourselfwho you are that we may communicate to those near and dear to
                            you who are doubtless anxiously searching for you." Turning feebly about
                            and riveting his marvelous eyes on Colonel Mount Severn, the young
                            blonde said, "My kind sir, I have no friend in all the world. Pray let
                            me remain until I am able to leave." Colonel Mount Severn said no more,
                            and later instructed his housekeeper to show the young invalid every
                            attention until he should decide to leave of his own free will. Colonel
                            Mount Severn was too thoroughly saturated with grief over Velma's
                            mysterious disappearance to give much concern to a wounded stranger, so
                            he retired to his study to smoke and brood.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIII.
                        VELMA RETURNS TO THE CRAGS ONLY TO BE DRIVEN
                            FORTH
                        After Velma Dale recovered from the delirium of weeks and weeks she found
                            herself in the home of Pat O'Toole, a fisherman, whose rosy wife had
                            tenderly watched over her for many weary days and nights. Slowly her
                            dreadful encounter with the blonde stranger at the great rock came back
                            to her. The fisherman's good wife then told her how her husband and his
                            companions were mending a net near the sea one fine morning when one of
                            the party looked up and saw something filmy and fluffy descending
                            directly over them. Quick as a flash they had spread their net and
                            broken the fall of a lovely girl.
                        "How I wish I had missed the net," wearily sighed Velma.
                        "There, now, me darlint, let me see ye smoile wid 'em foine eyes ye be
                            havin'," said Mrs. O'Toole.
                        
                        "How long have I been here?" asked Velma, who could not repress a faint
                            smile, so contagious were the twinkling eyes of Mrs. O'Toole.
                        "Now, thin, don't ye be worryin', me purty colleen. It's nearly well ye
                            be, an' soon we'll be takin' ye back to your frinds, if they he still
                            aloive after all these minny weeks widout ye," pleaded Mrs. O'Toole.
                        "My home is at The Crags, and my name is Velma Dale. I am the ward of
                            Colonel Mount Severn," said Velma.
                        "Bless me heart, The Crags is a foine place, but we' I have to go minny
                            miles around the coast to git ye there," and Mrs. O'Toole set about to
                            prepare some gruel to appease Velma's returning appetite.
                        When Velma Dale was returned to The Crags by the Irish fisherman and his
                            rollicking wife, Colonel Mount Severn could hardly contain himself, and
                            Pat O'Toole and his comrades, and Mrs. 
                            O'Toole, who had nursed Velma so tenderly, were each lavishly rewarded
                            out of his ample means. Colonel Mount Severn demanded that the story of
                            Velma's fall and her miraculous escape be told to him over and over
                            again. "Surely a kind providence is watching over you, my dear," said he
                            to Velma. A week later he presented her with a brand new croquet set,
                            and said, "Velma, my beautiful ward, everything must he done to make
                            your life at The Crags light and gay. Come to my study with me, I have
                            some things I wish to show you." As they walked slowly up the great
                            stairway, Colonel Mount Severn said, "My child, I will not always be
                            here to protect you, and I feel that you should know the hiding place of
                            many valuable papers and precious trinkets which I keep at The Crags."
                            Stopping before a panel in his study Colonel Mount Severn drew a key
                            from his pocket and disclosed a secret vault in the wall. "Here I keep
                                 everything of value in the way of
                            documents and jewels. This key will always be found in my pocket. Note
                            its peculiar design," and the two soon parted and repaired to their
                            respective rooms for the night. Velma had not been told of the young
                            blonde's presence at The Crags, as Colonel Mount Severn feared that it
                            might distress her. Sometime in the night Velma awakened with a start,
                            and there before her, clearly outlined in the pale moonlight which
                            poured through her window, stood the blond spectre. With the agility of
                            a cat Velma rushed from her bed and grabbed the gleaming dagger from the
                            upraised hand of the intruder and ran with great speed to the apartment
                            of Colonel Mount Severn, where she fell prostrate and insensible from
                            fright across his bed.
                        "Help!! Murder!!" rang through the halls of the old mansion, and when the
                            servants arrived on the scene they found Colonel Mount Severn standing
                            over the  apparently lifeless body of Velma
                            and cursing her roundly. "Away with the treacherous creature! Out of my
                            sight with the murderess! After all that I have done for her she seeks
                            my life in the dead of night. What a fool I was to intrust her with the
                            secret of the hidden vault! Hustle her out of here!!" he fairly roared.
                            Velma was quickly removed to her room and finally regained
                            consciousness, but no amount of explaining could alter Colonel Mount
                            Severn's belief that she had had evil designs on him. "She must leave
                            The Crags at once," said he, and leave The Crags she did, her and
                            Nanette, just as the grey of morning appeared. Quite by chance they
                            selected the roadway leading to Mrs. Moreland's cottage, and it is well
                            that they did, for Velma, in her weakened condition and with the curses
                            of Colonel Mount Severn still ringing in her ears, could have traveled
                            no further.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIV.
                        THE MAD MASTER OF THE CRAGS
                        Try as he might, Colonel Mount Severn could not bring himself to believe
                            that Velma was innocent of any wrong-doing when she stole into his
                            chamber with dagger in hand. Had he not told her of the ample provision
                            he had made for her in his will? Had he not shown her the precious
                            documents and priceless jewels which reposed in the secret vault? Was
                            she not soon to become of legal age, and would it not he the most
                            natural thing in the world for her to want to be rich and free from
                            restraint? Colonel Mount Severn congratulated himself that his knowledge
                            of human nature enabled him to see clearly at this time. "You can't
                            never tell about a woman," he said to his chiffonier, as he paced the
                            floor of his study and chewed violently at a fragrant I Havana.
                        There could be but one explanation  for such
                            farfetched reasoning on the part of Colonel Mount Severn. He was growing
                            nutty. He knew full well that Velma would soon come into vast sums left
                            to her by her father. He knew, too, that life held very little for Velma
                            since Wilfred Deming had played her false. Why Colonel Mount Severn did
                            not consider these facts furnish a splendid basis for the assumption
                            that he was nuts). But nothing could change his mind. There was no one
                            about The Crags who dared to cross himno one whose opinion would be
                            worth anything even though they did cross him. So the once handsome and
                            courtly master of The Crags prowled about the dark halls and recesses of
                            the crumbling old castle and cursed, and cursed and cursed.
                        Mrs. Moreland had sent word to him that she had taken Velma and Nanette
                            into her home, and that Velma was dangerously ill with fever. She
                            implored him to relentto forgive her and take  her back. But Colonel Mount Severn was not to be moved, and
                            he lost no time in forbidding Mrs. Moreland to disturb him any
                            further.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XV.
                        WILFRED DETERMINES TO FIND VELMA
                        After Wilfred Deming's frightful experience at the chapel, when he tore
                            the mask from the handsome face of the lying scoundrel who had been the
                            means of separating him from Velma Dale, perhaps forever, he was
                            tenderly nursed back to health in the sumptuous home of the wealthy
                            traveling evangelist, whose daughter he had saved from what could not
                            have been anything else than a disastrous union. The evangelist and his
                            family never tired of thanking him for his timely interference, and they
                            were only too glad to extend to him the freedom of their home for the
                            splendid service he  had rendered him.
                            However, Wilfred finally left their roof to continue his aimless
                            wandering. Bereft of his powerful roadster and other belongings,
                            excepting the khaki driving suit he was wearing when he was beat up, he
                            was indeed disconsolate. During his confinement he had decided that he
                            would return to Velma and ask her forgiveness. He had written to a
                            friend in regard to her only to receive a reply saying the Mount Severns
                            had gone abroad to remain indefinitely, and that their whereabouts were
                            unknown even to their friends. Wi-fr-d Deming felt
                            that one so young and beautiful and wealthy as Velma Dale would soon get
                            picked off in Europe. He even pictured her as the unhappy wife of some
                            thin-spaced count. But he determined to first earn some presentable
                            clothes when he would renew his search for her, even if it led to the
                            end of the world.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVI.
                        VELMA'S RESOLVE
                        After Velma Dale had exhausted every means to prove her innocence to
                            Colonel Mount Severn and had failed, a new determination seized her. In
                            spite of alleverythingshe would live on with the one hope that Wilfred
                            Deming would realize the brutal wrong he had done her and return to her
                            with the same old love as of yore. Her new resolve seemed to strengthen
                            her and she grew more cheerful as the days wore on. One day as she and
                            Nanette and Mrs. Moreland were strolling among the flowers she told them
                            that she decided to go far, far away. "I shall teach school and you,
                            Nanette, shall be my housekeeper, and Mrs. Moreland shall visit us. Oh,
                            we shall be so happy!" she said, her pretty eyes brightening. Velma
                            seemed to forget the vast sums which Colonel Mount Severn held in trust
                            for her, but indeed  she seemed to forget
                            everything except that she must live on and wait the coming of her
                            truant lover. A short time later, true to her word, Velma had quite
                            completed all arrangements, and she and Nanette were soon to leave for a
                            far western town. Of course, Mrs. Moreland did all in her power to
                            restrain her, and told her of the many pitfalls that awaited one so
                            beautiful and unprotected.
                        "Umph! My life has been made up of pitfalls, and I fear I could not bear
                            the monotony if they should be taken from me," said Velma playfully.
                        So Mrs. Moreland finally waived all objections to Velma's going away, and
                            soon the day of parting came. "Do not worry, Aunty Moreland," Velma
                            said, as she hugged and kissed her sweet, sad benefactress. "I am
                            perfectly capable to teach and I shall like it I know." Mrs. Moreland
                            accompanied Velma and Nanette as far as Oakdale and, as the  train departed, her sad eyes filled with
                            tears and she turned her face toward her lonely cottage in the
                            hills.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVII.
                        THE RECOGNITION
                        Mrs. Moreland had made no attempt to apprise Colonel Mount Severn of
                            Velma's flight to the west, where she intended to establish herself.
                            Indeed, Velma might have died so far as he knew. He had grown to be such
                            an old bearcat since driving her away that even his servants went about
                            their duites in constant fear of being struck down. He was regarded by
                            the few neighbors, whose misfortune it had been to meet him, as a
                            dangerous wild man who should be in irons. His violent fits of cursing
                            had sounded and resounded through the hills and trees until the very
                            bats and owls refused to go near the crumbling turrets of his gloomy
                            home. One day, after  Velma had been gone
                            some weeks, Mrs. Moreland decided that it was her duty to inform Colonel
                            Mount Severn that Velma had left her home. She felt that he should know
                            the whereabouts of his ward. She felt, too, that Velma's interests
                            should be safeguardedthat a guardian should be appointed if Colonel
                            Mount Severn's condition was as bad as reported. While she was devising
                            some means by which she could approach him with safety Wiggins called at
                            her cottage and, to her great surprise, said that his master had
                            directed him to call upon her and ask her if she would not kindly visit
                            him at The Crags. "A great change has come over the master," Wiggins
                            added, knowing full well that Colonel Mount Severn's awful temper and
                            violent actions had terrified the neighbors. "He's calmed considerably,
                            lady," he further said, as a look of uncertainty crept over Mrs.
                            Moreland's face. Soon the two had reached The Crags, and Mrs. Moreland
                                 was shown into the study of Colonel
                            Mount Severn. "Pray be seated, Mrs. Moreland," said he, arising to greet
                            her. "It was very good of you to come," he continued, as he lit a fresh
                            Havana. Then he wearily dropped into a great chair and sat half facing a
                            window through which the sea was easily discernible through the
                            half-naked boughs of a giant elm. After some moments of tortuous silence
                            he said, "Mrs. Moreland, I am a sad and broken man. For many years I
                            have suffered from a great sorrow, and the events of the past few months
                            have been more than I could bear up under." Then Colonel Mount Severn's
                            two chins dropped heavily into the soft folds of his flowing Windsor
                            tie, and he told Mrs. Moreland the story of his life the loss of his
                            young and beautiful wife and his keen disappointment in Velma, whom he
                            loved as his own child. As Mrs. Moreland listened to Colonel Mount
                            Severn's recital of all the incidents of 
                            his courtship and marriage she knew that the sad and haggard man before
                            her was none other than Edmund Le Vaille, her lost husband. Her great
                            joy seemed to make her speechless. She could not move, and as Colonel
                            Mount Severn concluded and looked up to see what effect his words had
                            had upon her, she suddenly fell forward and threw her arms about his
                            neck and cried, "Edmund, my lost love, I am Rose, don't you know me?"
                            Colonel Mount Severn was now overwhelmed. No novelist could describe his
                            emotions. Neither could the most gifted pen adequately picture the
                            happiness which now lighted the beautiful, but erstwhile clouded, face
                            of Mrs. Moreland. She related all the incidents of her life to Colonel
                            Mount Severnall the sorrow and privation that came to her after his
                            failure to come back to her from his perilous voyage. She told him of
                            the desperation which overtook her when she was no longer able to
                            procure food  and clothes for their child.
                            She related how, one night, she placed their precious darling on the
                            doorstep of a fine mansion and trusted to God to watch over her. "A few
                            months later, after I had found employment, I journeyed back to get her,
                            only to learn she had been adopted by a rich gentleman and taken abroad.
                            His name was Dale, but I was never able to find any trace of him. For
                            years I have made my way by writing for the magazines over the name of
                            Mrs. Moreland."
                        The name Dale greatly interested Colonel Mount Severn, and he hastily
                            arose and went to the secret vault and returned with a tiny necklace and
                            locket. "Look, my darling Rose, did you ever see this necklace before,"
                            said Colonel Mount Severn, eagerly.
                        "Yes, Edmund, I bought this for our child and it was about her neck when
                            I abandoned her. Where did you get it?" asked Rose Mount Severn
                            excitedly.
                        
                        "It was among Velma's belongings when poor Bob Dale died and gave her
                            into my keeping. I see at all now, my precious wife. Velma is our
                            child!" said Colonel Mount Severn, who was now thoroughly aroused.
                        The scene which followed had better be left to the imagination of the
                            reader. Colonel Mount Severn had indeed found his wife, and the two had
                            indeed found their daughteror at least they had established her
                            identity. Then Edmund Le Vaille explained why he had assumed the name,
                            Mount Severn. "Shortly after returning from South America, I was
                            arrested, with others, by government officers and charged with promoting
                            a fraudulent land scheme. I was soon exonerated, but the great publicity
                            given the case caused me to assume the name of a great uncle, Colonel
                            Mount Severn."
                        But with all his joy, Edmund Le Vaille could not forget the night Velma
                            had entered his room with a dagger, and  a
                            troubled look swept across his face as this chapter is concluded.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XVIII.
                        THE BREAKING CLOUDS
                        The ugly thoughts that haunted the mind of Edmund Le Vaille despite the
                            joy which filled his heart over the discovery that Mrs. Moreland was
                            indeed his lost Rose were soon to be dispersed. One evening as the long
                            separated lovers sat on a spacious stone veranda overlooking the croquet
                            plot discussing the probable duration of the European war, Wiggins
                            appeared and, in great excitement, told Edmund Le Vaille that the blonde
                            invalid lay cold in death on the ground beneath the window of his room.
                            "Clutched in his hand, master, was this letter, sir," said Wiggins,
                            handing a folded paper to Edmund Le Vaille, who read: 
                                
                                    
                                        "To Colonel Mount Severn:
                                        I am the interne who took your ward from the Magnolia
                                            Sanatorium at New Orleans, and married her. It was I who
                                            warned Wilfred Deming against marrying her. It was I who
                                            pushed her from the great rock into the sea, and it was
                                            I who sought to kill her on the night she rushed into
                                            your room with a dagger. My curses on you all!!!
                                        
                                            Ralph Wick."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        "How perfectly plain everything is now, my precious Rose," said Edmund Le
                            Vaille to his radiant wife, after he had regained his composure. "This
                            note explains young Deming's actions on the night he was to wed our
                            Velma. It clears up the mystery of the attack on her at the great rock,
                            and, greater than all, it disperses the last dark cloud to hang over The
                            Crags, for Velma did not  intend to murder
                            me when she dashed into my room with a dagger."
                        If Edmund Le Vaille had been a drinking man, or even a man who could
                            leave liquor alone, he certainly would have slipped off and gone over to
                            Oakdale and got pickled, for events at The Crags were following one
                            another in such rapid succession that the very scenery was in a whirl.
                            But Edmund Le Vaille was a man who had no use for liquor. Indeed it may
                            be said in favor of the flowing bowl that not one of all the heartaches
                            endured by poor ill-starred Velma could be traced to liquor. Wilfred
                            Deming was a total abstainer. In his struggling days as a paper hanger,
                            yea, even when he was in the hands of his friends and threatened with
                            public office, he had shunned the cup that cheers. Ralph Wick, the
                            handsome, forward lookin' blackleg who stopped at nothing, played a
                            little pool, but touched nothing stronger than pop. It is little wonder
                            that, at the  conclusion of Ralph Wick's
                            dying confession, Edmund Le Vaille swore then and there that he would
                            spend every dollar he had in the world, if need be, to find his darling
                            child.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XIX.
                        THE LE VAILLES FIND VELMA
                        Velma had experienced little trouble in finding a position as teacher in
                            the schools of a thriving western town. She and Nanette lived in a
                            modest bungalow and both were very happy. Velma's sweet nature and
                            pretty face had already won her many friends, and not a few ardent
                            admirers. But ardent admirers did not interest her. In spite of her
                            lively manner and pretty smile her heart was heavy and she still longed
                            for Wilfred Deming with a longing that refused to be sidetracked by the
                            excitement and novelty of her new life. Nanette's close association with
                            Velma had been a fine education  for her.
                            She loved only the best books and had taken on all the dainty mannerisms
                            of a real lady. Then, too, she was comely, and Velma feared that it was
                            only a question of time until someone would drop along and cop her out.
                            "What shall I do when you are wed, Nanette?" said Velma, one night,
                            after a bashful young stock raiser, who had been sparking her, had left
                            and Nanette, with glowing face, had sheepishly entered her room.
                        "Oh, Miss Velma, I shall never wedthat is I mean I never shall till your
                            lost lover returns to you," said Nanette, turning purple. The two had
                            spent a happy winter in the West, and now the crocuses where peeping
                            from their chilly beds.
                        "It seems like ages since the tortuous days at The Crags. Really,
                            Nanette, we must send Mrs. Moreland a postcard showing the new Odd
                            Fellows' Hall, just to let her know that we are still in the  land of the living," said Velma, day, as
                            her and Nanette returned from gathering columbines in the mountains. So
                            the next day a card was mailed to Mrs. Moreland a little innocent
                            picture card with a cheery message and a telltale postmark. As the
                            reader will doubtless guess, it was not many days until the Le Vailles
                            were on their way westward to find their daughter, when the last
                            remaining obstacle to their perfect happiness would be cleared away.
                        * * * * * * * * * * * *
                        It was the close of the last day of school, and Velma's scholars had
                            showered her with presents and kisses. She was on her way home weighed
                            down with boxes and bundles, remembrances from the children who loved
                            her. As she approached her bungalow, Nanette ran out to greet her. "Oh,
                            Velma," she said, "I have such a fine surprise for you! Quick, give me
                            your packages and hurry to the house and see who awaits you!"  Velma almost ran to the house and, as she
                            entered the door she ran straight into the loving arms of "Aunty
                            Moreland" and "Uncle Mount Severn." This is another one of those
                            situations which no pen should presume to describe. Of course Velma wept
                            for joy when she realized that she had found her mother and father. When
                            she had heard all Wilfred Deming's conduct was quite clear to her, and
                            she did not blame him. Rather she loved him better than ever. Of course
                            she was to return to The Crags with her parents, and when the bashful
                            young stock raiser learned of the turn of affairs he realized that he
                            would have to act quickly or lose Nanette, so he proposed by telephone
                            and was accepted. To be sure Velma wept at the thought of losing
                            faithful Nanette, but she well knew what a powerful thing love was, so
                            she was very glad Nanette was to become the wife of a good hustler and
                            the mistress of a thriving ranch. After 
                            the ceremony, which took place at the bungalow, Edmund Le Vaille slipped
                            a small fortune in the pretty gloved hand of Nanette, while his wife and
                            Velma showered her with kisses. After visiting a few points of interest
                            in the West the Le Vailles departed for their home on the Eastern
                            coast.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XX.
                        WILFRED DEMING IS RECONCILED AT LAST
                        "The cool, melancholy, rain-lashed days of autumn that
                            drive the heart in upon itself:'
                        It was October and Wilfred Deming, who had despaired of ever finding
                            Velma, had located in a likely New Hampshire village, where he soon
                            became recognized as a lawyer of superior talents and a gentleman of
                            fine attainments. Nothing but success could possibly come of such a
                            combination, and soon his services were in great demand and he lived for
                                 his profession alone. He had made many
                            inquiries regarding the whereabouts of Colonel Mount Severn and Velma,
                            but had learned nothing, except that they had gone abroad to remain
                            indefinitely. "That means for good," he said aloud, to himself, one day.
                            "The Colonel has plenty of money, so why should he return." Then he
                            reflected, "Nor does any one know of my whereaboutsand much less do they
                            care. Did I not desert Velma without even so much as asking her for a
                            word of explanation?" Then arising, Wilfred half mumbled, as he reached
                            for a volume of the revised statutes of New Hampshire, "I hardly dare to
                            think of what Colonel Mount Severn would do to me, even now, if he
                            should learn of my whereabouts. He would do a-plenty, I'll warrant."
                        Toward the last of May, after a winter of hard work in which he had
                            handled a number of important cases, Wilfred Deming decided that he
                            needed a little  diversion, so accordingly
                            he set about to make his plans. He had bought a new automobile and had
                            fortified himself with five kinds of insurance, so naturally he decided
                            on a tour of the beautiful coast country. After some days of delightful
                            journeying he found himself in the public square of a pretty village
                            called Oakdale, where he decided to spend the night. Arising bright and
                            early the next morning he approached the landlord to inquire about the
                            roads.
                        "Well, sir, I don't own no ortomobile, but I'm told by those as does that
                            the finest stretch of road hereabouts, and the only direct route to the
                            sea, is the road that strikes east from the courthouse. I'm told the
                            scenery is second to none," said the tavern keeper.
                        Ere long Wilfred Deming was driving leisurely through what seemed to him
                            a perfect paradise of scenic grandeur. As he proceeded the rugged beauty
                            of the country increased. Indeed, so entranced  was he when he caught his first glimpse of the turquoise
                            sea through the filmy greenery of the great trees whose wide-spreading
                            boughs now completely arched the roadway, that he quite forgot his
                            steering wheel and his car struck a tree and he was thrown violently
                            through the windshield.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXI.
                        AN INTERRUPTED CROQUET GAME
                        On a level stretch of pale green plush at the edge of a deep, cool beech
                            wood the Le Vailles were playing croquet. It was the last of May and all
                            nature seemed to be giving a dress rehearsal preparatory to the gorgeous
                            show which was to run throughout the month to come.
                        "Rose," said Edmund Le Vaille, to his wife, as they paused while Velma
                            gave chase to a butterfly of rare coloring, "there is still an
                            expression of sadness in Velma's eyes that I fear nothing will ever  erase except the return of Wilfred
                            Deming.
                        "Ah, my dear," said the new mistress of The Crags, leaning carelessly on
                            her mallet, "something tells me he will return, and that shortly. He
                            must return for our darling's sake." Then she continued, half sighing,
                            "Was there ever such a love as Velma's?"
                        "My darling, Rose," said Edmund Le Vaille, placing his arm affectionately
                            about the shapely waist of his wife, "it is only natural that Velma's
                            love should be true and constant, for her mother and father" Here Edmund
                            Le Vaille's words were cut short by Wiggins, who rushed up and told him
                            that he had just found another auto victim near the gates to The Crags.
                            "And, master, I have made him as comfortable as possible in the lodge,"
                            added Wiggins. Velma, who by this time had rejoined her parents and
                            heard all, said, "Oh, papa,mama, let us hurry to the poor fellow at once
                            and  try to help him!" and without waiting
                            to see what action her parents would take, Velma was soon lost in the
                            shrubbery that bordered the pathway to the lodge.
                        The scene that met the eyes of Edmund Le Vaille and his wife, as they
                            entered the wide hall which ran the full length of the lodge, will never
                            be forgotten. There, upon a low divan lay Wilfred Deming, and kneeling
                            at his side with her arms about his neck was Velma.
                        "Will wonders never let up?" said Edmund Le Vaille to his beautiful wife
                            and, taking her by the hand, they walked noiselessly out of the
                            lodge.
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XXII.
                        TOGETHER AT LAST
                        It is June again! What romance would be complete without its June? Love
                            has ever found closer companionship with June than with all the other
                            months of  the year. Who has become so
                            embittered with sorrow, who has become so hardened with crime, and who
                            has grown so thoughtless and worldly through long lives of reckless
                            pleasure, that each recurring June does not conjure up some sweet,
                            treasured memory of some other June away back in the mist of yearsin the
                            echoless long ago? Oh, the mysterious loom which weaves the green
                            drapery of June!
                        The twilight shadows were fading fast, and a deep orange moon was peeping
                            from behind a great wooded peak to the east and turning the quiet
                            surface of the sea to a shimmering field of beaten gold. High upon a
                            great rock overlooking this glorious prospect two lovers satVelma Le
                            Vaille and Wilfred Deming. It was the same rock from which Velma had
                            fallen when accosted by Ralph Wick, the blonde scoundrel. For fully some
                            hours the two lovers had reviewed the trials and tribulations through
                            which each had  passed during the long
                            weary months of their separation.
                        "How strange it all seems, and, oh! how wrong I was to harbor one single
                            unworthy thought of you, my darling Velma," said Wilfred Deming, who was
                            now trying to repay all the kisses he had missed with interest.
                        "No one can ever know how cheap I felt, Wilfred dear, when you never
                            showed up for our wedding," said Velma, who had freed herself for a
                            little breathing spell and now stood with her pretty head and shoulders
                            silhouetted against the moon. Wilfred now slid off the rock and was soon
                            at her side. As they walked arm and arm down through the rocky passes
                            leading to The Crags they paused, and Wilfred said, gathering Velma in
                            his arms, "Ah, my treasure, fate has done her blamedest to separate us.
                            I wonder if, after all, we have outwitted her, or if she will try to
                            come back?"
                        "There you go again, Wilfred dear,  with
                            your gloomy speculations," said Velma, holding him tightly. Then she
                            added, "As I vowed to you long ago, my love, as we stood in the wet
                            alfalfa, nothing, not even fate, shall part us."
                        So Velma Le Vaille and Wilfred Deming were married and lived happily with
                            plenty of children and everything. And Time, as if to make up for all
                            the years Edmund Le Vaille and his wife were lost to one another, dealt
                            lightly with them, for they lived on and on until they had to be fed
                            with a spoon.
                    
                    THE END.
                
                
                
                    Ther's never much happiness in a home where th' intellect hain't evenly
                        divided.
                    Ther seems t' be some misunderstandin' among our girl painters as t' jest
                        where th' bloom o' youth should begin' an' end.
                    Th' only way t' entertain some folks is t' listen t' 'em.
                    Circuses are jest beginnin' t' do th' things they advertised forty years
                        ago.
                    Who remembers th' feller who used t' teach school in th' winter an' work in a
                        livery stable all summer?
                    Ever'thing is fair in love or waror if your shoes hurt.
                    
                    Two months in jail 'll remove freckles.
                    Th' best thing about autos is that relatives kin return home th' same
                        day.
                    How'd it do fer congress t' pass a law requirin' dealers in th' necessities
                        o' l fe t' wait till ther wuz really a crisis before holdin' up th'
                        consumer?
                    Miss Tawney Apple has a curl fer her left shoulder, but no offers t' star in
                        a film.
                    Tipton Bud dislocated his jaw, t'day, while reversin' on a roastin' ear.
                    One o' th' simple but genuine pleasures o' life is gittin' up in th' mornin'
                        an' hurryin' t' a mousetrap you set th' night before.
                    
                    Another good way t' keep on th' safe side is t' utterly refuse t'
                        comment.
                    Ainsley Tanner is th' first t' announce th' appearance o' fa'l mushrooms, an'
                        can not recover.
                    Tipton Bud received a revised plumbin' bill t'day.
                    Life is jest one busted romance after another.
                    Miss Wanda Moots, who is t' marry Mr. Oscar Shoots, will be th' first thick,
                        reg'lar sized girl t' be led t' th' altar here in two years.
                    Mr. Glen Bud will join th' reg'lur army an' offers his narrow sparkin' buggy
                        fer sale.
                    
                    Th' ole time beau who used t' set patiently thro' a few verses o' "In th'
                        Gloaming, 'Oh, My Darlin'," now has a son who has t' squirm an' yawn thro' a
                        stack o' phonergraph records as high as th' celin'.
                    Tell Binkley asked Mrs. Tilford Moots what kind of a auto her uncle bought,
                        an' she said, "It's a F. O. B., made in Detroit."
                    "If Hughes is elected he'll be th' first fur bearin' president we've had in
                        years," said Uncle Niles Turner, t'day.
                    What has become o' th' ole time husband who got his breakfast at home?
                    An optimist is a feller who believes what's goin' t' be 'll be postponed.
                    
                    "My, but I'd hate t' have a daughter at large," said Mrs. Tilford Moots, as
                        she laid a newspaper aside t'day.
                    Th' hardest job of all is doin' nothin', yet th' list of applicants grows
                        ever' day.
                    Folks that don't begin' t' be pleasant till 10 o'clock in th' mornin'
                        shouldn' git up till 10 o'clock.
                    Mrs. Tilford Moots's mother down in Perry county is ninety-eight years ole
                        an' has never seen a Ford.
                    A rabbit is too proud t' fight, hence so many fur topped shoes.
                    Th' reason so many fellers marry butterflies is because it's hard t' fool a
                        regular woman.
                    
                    Still another good thing about th' movie the-ater is that ther's no No. 2
                        companies.
                    Gran'maw Pash has a beautiful new three hundred an' fifty coupon humidor.
                    Of all th' good advice, "Stop an' Think" is th' best.
                    This is th' age o' specialists, an' nobuddy pretends t' know it all like they
                        used to.
                    A sensational rumor wuz afloat here t'day that Mrs. Lafe Bud would return t'
                        her husband without requisition.
                    Remember what a time you had findin' th' ax th' mornin' after a snow, when
                        you wuz a boy?
                    
                    Keifer pears may be kept indefinitely by tippin' th' stems with sealin'
                        wax.
                    Gee, what if th' farmers should organize?
                    Nothin' is as disappointin' as gittin' a sensible present fer Christmus.
                    Mrs. Tilford Moots' sister has four daughtersthree married an' one ugly.
                    Among other hallucinations nearly ever' feller has after he's rounded fifty
                        is that ever' girl who lived durin' his young manhood wuz an ole sweetheart
                        o' hisn'.
                    Another cause fer serious apprehension in this country is th' growin'
                        tendency among our people t' kid themselves.
                    
                    What's worse'n tryin' t' read an uncut magazine in bed?
                    Never put anything in th' laundry t'day that you kin wear t'morrow.
                    You kin git plenty o' followers if you've got th' price.
                    "I'd like t' bet fifty dollars right now that we'll be in th' war in another
                        month," said Tilford Moots, as he charged a nutmeg at th' grocery.
                    When th' horse becomes an ornament ther's goin' t' be some awful
                        ornaments.
                    Ther's too many folks talkin' about what they heard instead of what they
                        know.
                    
                    Miss Tawney Apple is so chilly she has t' put anti-freeze in her hot water
                        bottle.
                    Everbuddy's workin'somebuddy else.
                    It seems like th' folks that are "all right when you git t' know 'em" never
                        have very long funerals.
                    Miss Tilford Moots says she believes th' papers have printed more receipes
                        fer carrots since Wilson has been in office than under any other
                        President.
                    A word t' th' wise is superfluous.
                    Lafe Bud received nine dollars conscience money t'day, an' he says he can't
                        imagine who sent it unless it wuz his wife's mother.
                    
                    I kin remember when th' only calamity that could possibly overtake us wuz th'
                        town pump freezin' up.
                    Gran'maw Pash is colorin' a meerschaum pipe fer a nephew in Virginny.
                    Tell Binkley says he'd jest as leave put on a tire as a dress suit.
                    Children are great institutions, but ther ought t' be some way t' keep from
                        havin' t' read aloud t' 'em.
                    Th' trouble with a "dry" town is that you never know where t' find some
                        fellers.
                    A feller ought t' be cleaned up an' fairly successful before he talks so
                        blamed much.
                    
                    Some folks are too stingy t' even use ther own judgment.
                    We'd never know some candidates wuz in a race if they didn' withdraw.
                    Ther's no market fer a personal grievance.
                    Lafe Bud has a new gas mask t' wear on crowded interurbans.
                    Th' louder a feller talks th' less he knows.
                    Where ther's so much smoke ther must be some coupons.
                    We all know th' feller that knocks himself t' git a boost.
                    
                    Some folks have a way o' doin' nothin' that kin hardly be distinguished from
                        work.
                    Th' the-atrical companies that used t' come t' town an' rejuvenate th'
                        hut-tel now arrive on a film an' go straight t' th' the-ater.
                    It's fun t' listen t' th' feller who never even had a gocart complain o' th'
                        vibration o' th' four-cylinder auto.
                    When a girl don't like a feller ther's no appeal.
                    You don't have t' be in business t' be a cheater.
                    One o' th' easiest ways t' die is bein killed by an unconfirmed report.
                    
                    Ever notice how quick an actor gits his number when he uses a telephone in a
                        play?
                    It seems like the only hard times we're experiencin' in this country is in
                        havin' a new auto delivered, or findin' a seat in a the-ater.
                    Miss Eloise Pash won first prize in th' toothbrush drill at No. 4 school
                        yisterday.
                    We allus go t' a sanatorium too late an' come home too soon.
                    Ther must be such a thing as th' element o' luck or how could some people git
                        by?
                    Ther's too many expert whittlers grumblin' about fate.
                    
                    It wuz as quiet as a successful man here Sunday.
                    Th' more some people have th' easier they seem t' hold ther own.
                    Little Dorothy Moots is not th' only one that would like t' have a doll they
                        could dress.
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut's uncle wuz laid away t'daybut not fer Christmus.
                    Next t' takin a peach stain out of a white vest, th' hardest thing is t' be
                        pleasant an' chatty after payin' a sewer assessment.
                    It keeps th' farmer on th' hump watchin' both grain an' gasoline
                        quotations.
                    
                    Th' modern phonograph has put th' bashful pianist out o' business.
                    Long whiskers are all right if your wife buys your neckties.
                    Th' dealer never has your size in th' shirt you pick out in a show
                        window.
                    Nothin' but a big dinner 'll git some families t'gether.
                    Th' worst kind of a neutral is th' feller who lets others fight his
                        battles.
                    It's sweet t' be remembered, but it's often cheaper t' be overlooked.
                    Who remembers th' ole-fashioned shoes that would hold a shine fer nearly a
                        day?
                    
                    If th' butcher would jest leave th' meat on th' scales long enough t' see
                        what it weighed we wouldn' feel so stung.
                    Ther's too many people gittin' by on th' plea o' thoughtlessness.
                    Th' feller that's goin' t' th' devil is allus lookin' fer somebuddy t' go
                        with him.
                    Miss Tawney Apple is confined t' her home by a swollen dresser drawer.
                    Tell Binkley has decided not t' run fer sheriff an' his party is lookin' fer
                        a strong man t' be th' goat.
                    If money talked you couldn' hear yourself think in a ten-cent store.
                    
                    Ever notice how little children an' dogs keep away from mean folks? It haint
                        till we grow up that we git fooled on people.
                    A feller has t' be a loafer t' keep posted these days.
                    Tell Binkley has bought a beautiful pair o' heliotrope suspenders t' wear
                        with his new belt.
                    Be sure you're right, an' it won't make any difference whether you go ahead
                        or remain over.
                    Of all th' home teams mother an' father is th' best.
                    Th' time t' economize is when you've got th' coin.
                    
                    Th' feller who said, "Come in' th' garden, Maud," couldn' have been talkin'
                        t' a chicken.
                    Mrs. Lafe Bud says she'd leave her husband in a minute, but she has nothin'
                        t' wear.
                    Ther's exceptions t' all rules, 'cept th' poor ones.
                    Miss Germ Williams will address th' Equal Suffrage League, t'night, on "Th'
                        Brotherhood o' Women."
                    What's become o' all th' full grown young women we used t' see?
                    Elmer Meadows didn' owe a dollar in th' world two years ago an' now he's
                        enlargin' his garage.
                    
                    Elections stir up things but they don't settle nothin'.
                    A smile on th' face is worth two in th' bottle.
                    Health, education an' wealth are all fine things, but ther haint nothin'
                        that'll git you as fer as a pleasin' personality.
                    Uncle Jeff Pusey, who died some months ago an' left considable property, wuz
                        declared insane t'day.
                    Next t' listenin' t' th' minutes of a previous meetin' ther hain't nothin' as
                        dull as a high brow concert.
                    "Oh, shoot!! Jest as I got my furs out it turned cool," said Miss Fawn
                        Lippincut this mornin'.
                    
                    It's a mighty dull day when a marryin' squire don't die somewheres.
                    Ther haint nothin' as prosy as bein' out o' debt.
                    Who remembers th' ole straight laced days when it wuzn' respectable t' go t'
                        th' the-ater t' see anything worsen' Swiss bell ringers?
                    "Hearts Asunder" at Melodeon hall t'night by flesh and blood actors.
                    "Gimme th' ole fashioned Christmus, when you got presents instead o' cards,"
                        said Miss Germ Williams t'day.
                    "Well, if ther hain't a hoss an' buggy," said Lafe Bud, this mornin', as he
                        stood on th' pustoffice corner.
                    
                    Nobuddy ever saw a truthful person entertainin' a crowd.
                    If Villa wuz in a hospital it wouldn' be any harder t' find out somethin'
                        about him.
                    I'd hate t' be a bartender an' have t' work on Sundays an' holidays.
                    Of all th' combinations a purple-veined nose an' a gun metal mustache is th'
                        worst.
                    There's plenty o' highly colored news in spite o' th' shortage o' dyes.
                    Mr. and Mrs. Tilford Moots an' niece, Miss Dody Moon, an' Mr. and Mrs. Fern
                        Pash an' son Ratcliffe, attended a fire yisterday.
                    
                    Nothin's as bad as it's printed.
                    "Havin' somethin' sent home on approval is th' only way you kin git out o'
                        most stores," said Lib Pash t'day.
                    "I might as well have bought a automobile as these white spats when it comes
                        t' upkeep," said Miss Fawn Lippincut t'day.
                    Mrs. Emmy Pash has a souvenir card from her niece who is a domestic, an' she
                        says ever'thing is breakin' fine fer her.
                    Mrs. Cad Pash has three daughters, two married an' one still paintin'.
                    "I reckon barbed wire has done away with most o' th' picket duty in th' war,"
                        said ole Ez Pash, t'day.
                    
                    One o' th' newest ways o' tryin' t' appear deep an' thoughtful is t' look
                        away off in th' distance an' say, half regretfully: "Well, it begins t' look
                        like we'll have t' take Mexico."
                    Ther's many a drab home, no matter what color th' house is painted.
                    You'd think some folks' names wuz on th' program from th' way they try t'
                        show off in a the-ater.
                    Who remembers th' ole fashioned beau that leaned on th' gate post an' kicked
                        a hole in th' ground?
                    "If ther's anything more'n another that makes me mad, it's t' have a fresh
                        girl clerk call me 'honey,' " said Mrs. Tipton Bud t'day.
                    
                    A water wagon for women will come next.
                    Nothin' seems to please th' knocker but th' society of another knocker.
                    Pinky Kerr is on th' decline, but refuses t' consult a doctor fer fear he'll
                        tell him t' play golf.
                    Prof. Alex. Tansey has advertised fer a feller with a 1885 stiff hat t' play
                        th' detective in his new meller drammer.
                    Look out fer th' feller who says money is only a secondary consideration.
                    When th' manufacturers o' some article meet an' decide t' charge more fer it
                        they give out a prediction that th' price'll go up.
                    
                    Why can't a football player git a picture taken that don't make him look like
                        he wuz wanted fer somethin'?
                    "Th' accurate delimitation o' th' concept property would afford a theme
                        especially apposite fer amplificative philosophical disquisition; however,
                        you've chosen your path in life an' must take th' consequences," said
                        Justice Marsh Swallow, in sentencin' Stew Nugent this mornin'.
                    Truth is stranger than fiction, but not near as plentiful.
                    Of all th' substitutes fer greatness, money is th' poorest.
                    Ability is a mighty fine thing, but it seems t' take nerve an' a good suit o'
                        clothes t' deliver th' goods.
                    
                    Miss Tawney Apple's uncle, who in th' ole days before th' town went dry wuz a
                        highly respected saddler, died o' liquid fire yisterday.
                    A Mexican must look like a toadstool t' a aviator.
                    One good thing about havin' th' dyspepsia is that you kin rest assured things
                        hain't near as bad as they seem.
                    Of all th' concealed weapons th' onion breath is th' worst.
                    Among other things th' auto has boosted is neuritis.
                    Th' feller who used t' tell his troubles now darts in a nickel the-ater an'
                        forgits 'em.
                    
                    When you read what it costs some candidates t' git a nomination, you can't
                        help wonderin' how much it's goin' t' cost 'em t' git elected.
                    Mrs. Tipton Bud has returned from Bloom Center, where she attended th'
                        weddin' o' her niece. She says it wuz one o' th' swellest weddin's in th'
                        history o' th' state, only th' whites o' the' eggs bein' used in th'
                        cake.
                    Some fellers are too lazy t' fool with a garden, but they'll raise a
                        goatee.
                    People who do things are generally poor conversationalists.
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut says th' new dances are jest like settin' on a davenport
                        'cept you walk around.
                    
                    Miss Tawney Apple has a new futurist complexion.
                    Some fellers are so busy discussin' th' momentous questions o' th' day that
                        they fergit t' change ther collars.
                    Lawson Tanger died on his way t' jail t'day. He wuz a feller who might have
                        grown rich as a lightnin' rod agent.
                    It's when we're expected t' use a little common sense that most of us fall
                        down.
                    Tipton Bud is attendin' th' tractor demonstration at Bridgeport an' talks
                        some o' buyin' a seven-passenger plow.
                    Tell Binkley is on th' water wagon an' now gits his breakfast at home instead
                        o' at th' drug store.
                    
                    "Nothin' 'll ever replace th' livery stable as a ideal loafin' place," said
                        Stew Nugent, this mornin', while complainin' o' th' noise an' lack o' real
                        comfort o' th' average garage.
                    Not havin' money is th' root o' most evil.
                    Remember when we used t' write "In Haste" on our letters?
                    Lafe Bud misjudged a skillet this mornin' an' is confined t' his home.
                    We suppose Henry Ford wants t' beat all th' swords int' cam shafts.
                    Some girls have a peaches-an'-cream complexion, an' others seem t' prefer th'
                        deeper Ben Davis shades.
                    
                    These are awful hard days t' listen without buttin' in.
                    Opportunity rarely shows up, but temptation has a reg'lar route.
                    You kin git on th' good side o' most any feller by askin' him where he got
                        such a purty shirt.
                    Th' only real safety zone is homean' upstairs at that.
                    Miss Babe Pash is at home on a visit fer th' first time in two years. She has
                        faded out considerable, but looks better'n ever around th' feet.
                    You almost have t' buy an auto these days t' git rid o' th' folks who want t'
                        know why you don't.
                    
                    Politicians an' actors never quit in time.
                    If you want t' disguise your hand use a pustoffice pen.
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut went t' church yisterday an' says th' sermon wuz bright
                        in spots but th' hats were punk.
                    Th' less reputation a feller has th' quicker he resents any reflection on
                        it.
                    Ever' once in a while we meet a feller who's tryin' t' walk across th'
                        continent fer a prize, while th' ole time actor thought nothin' of it.
                    In all th' wide world ther is no place where folks who take 'emselves
                        seriously fit in.
                    
                    Why don't someone design a new trophy cup?
                    "Don't worry" is a pop'lar motto with those who don't amount t' anything.
                    So fer as I have been able t' learn, a shoe store is th' only institution in
                        th' world that expects one clerk t' wait on a dozen customers at once.
                    Stew Nugent says he believes he'd prefer th' submarine t' th' box car if it
                        wuzn' fer icebergs.
                    Th' short-sighted feller is th' first t' see his finish.
                    Look out fer th' feller who says, "I jest thought I ought t' tell you, 'cause
                        I'm your friend'."
                    
                    Th' girl who cares more about her looks than she does about fryin' a egg jest
                        right had better abandon all notion o' marryin' while ther is yet time.
                    Mrs. Tilford Moots' nephew writes that he's not doin' anything now as he has
                        an assistant.
                    Who remembers when th' two ole parties used t' have a little sympathy fer th'
                        taxpayer?
                    Lots of us have plenty, but no peace.
                    Some women don't only make good wives, but purty fair husbands too.
                    Th' cost o' th' European war makes th' upkeep of an auto look like thirty
                        cents.
                    
                    Th' smaller some folks are th' easier they seem t' assume th' weight o' th'
                        universe.
                    It takes adversity t' produce a first class human bein'.
                    Ther's no jingoist like th' feller whose fightin' days are over.
                    If th' women's clubs want t' reform this country they might begin by urgin'
                        more petticoats an' a less expanse o' shins.
                    Tell Binkley has a new overcoat, an' its big enough fer a bootlegger.
                    You kin allus tell a feller who lives in a rented house by th' place he
                        strikes matches.
                    
                    It's all right t' have a few ideas of your own, but ther's such a thing as
                        bein' so blamed original that you're alone in a crowd.
                    A feller kin be square with th' world an' still owe somethin' t' his
                        wife.
                    Havin' nothin' makes a feller hustle like a lot o' enemies.
                    Th' feller without a sense o' humor is t' be pitied, an' if he happens t' be
                        religious he's th' limit.
                    A boy's idea o' a tightwad is th' feller who waits fer a few pennies
                        change.
                    Of all th' deplorable combinations ther hain't nothin' worse'n a dry town an'
                        a wet mayor.
                    
                    A new girl arrived Monday night t' bless th' home o' Mr. an' Mrs. Windsor
                        Kale. She's t' git three dollars a week an' th' use o' th' organ.
                    Rev. Wiley Tanger is so strong fer peace that he has thrown his gun metal
                        watch away.
                    Th' feller with th' greenish brown moustache haint worryin' about th'
                        shortage o' dyestuffs as long as shoe blackin' holds out.
                    Ther' servin' two kinds o' maple syrup at th' Litle Gem resturintfancy an'
                        mine run.
                    Mrs. Tilford Moots' nephew is gittin' right t' th' front in th' city, as you
                        kin jest barely make out his signature t' a typewritten letter.
                    
                    Who remembers when ther wuzn' sich a thing as a prominent an' hard t' do
                        farmer?
                    Who remembers th' fine ole days when th' meat you bought never weighed even
                        money?
                    Th' auto 'll never supplant th' political wheel hoss.
                    What's become o' th' sweet ole time girl who wuz allus afraid her skirt wuz
                        too short?
                    Miss Tawney Apple hasn' decided yet whether she'll spend her money on her
                        feet or her head this fall.
                    After all, lookin' th' part is th' main thing.
                    
                    Mr. Lemmie Peters, whose graduation essay, "This is th' Golden Age o'
                        Opportunity," created so much favorable comment last June, thinks some o'
                        becomin' a oboe player.
                    Another highly commendable thing about a movie actor is that he never murders
                        his lines.
                    A disastrous fire swept th' home o' Rev. Wiley Tanger, last night, caused by
                        th' faulty insulation of a celluloid cuff.
                    Speakin' o' nature fakirs, Tell Binkley is an Elk, a Moose, a Eagle, a tax
                        ferret an' a night owl.
                    Miss Tawney Apple is keepin' company with Elwood Moots jest t' git th'
                        coupons.
                    
                    Next t' hen's teeth ther hain't nothin' as scarce as corsets in a gypsy
                        camp.
                    Nobuddy is as full of advice as a failure.
                    One o' th' saddest spectacles o' th' present day is th' little, slender,
                        painted girl o' fourteen or fifteen.
                    
                
            
        
    
