
     ----CITATION---- 
        Hubbard, Kin, 1868-1930. Abe Martin's Almanack: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2450
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                
            
            
            
                Abe Martin's Almanack
                
            
            
            
                
                    Abe Martin's Almanack
                
                By Kin Hubbard
                CONTAINING
                     TIMELY HINTS TO FARMERS AND YOUNG WOMEN
                     ACTUAL FACTS ABOUT THE MOON
                     ASTROLOGICAL LORE, TRUE EXPLANATION OF DREAMS
                     FAMOUS POLITICAL SPEECHES
                     RARE PHILOSOPHICAL MUSINGS AND MUCH
                     VALUABLE INFORMATION ALONG MANY LINES BY
                     SUCH NOTABLE MINDS
                        AS
                     HON. EX-EDITOR
                        CALE FLUHART
                     CONSTABLE NEWT PLUM
                        AND HIS SON-IN-LAW, PINKY KERR, TILFORD MOOTS
                     NILES TURNER, MISS FAWN LIPPINCUT
                     PROF. ALEX TANSEY
                        AND DOCTOR MOPPS, ESQ. TOGETHER WITH HUNDREDS OF
                     BRAND NEW EPIGRAMS
                     BY ABE MARTIN
                
                
                    With Illustrations by the Author
                
                
                    Indianapolis
                    The Bobbs-Merrill Company Publishers
                
            
            
            
            	Verso
                Copyright 1907 The Bobbs-Merrill Company November
            
            
            
            	Dedication
                
                    To My Mother
                
            
            
            
            	Acknowledgements
                Thanks are due to The Indianapolis News for permission to
                    republish much of the material in this volume
            
            
            
            	Epigraph
                
                    
                        ABE MARTIN!—dad-burn his old picture!
                        P'tends he's a Brown county fixture—
                        A kind of comical mixture—
                        Of hoss-sense and no sense at all!
                    
                    
                        James Whitcomb Riley.
                    
                
                
            
        
        
            
            
                Abe Martin's Almanack
                
                Abe Martin's Almanack
                
                Parents that name ther daughters "Goldie" will have t'
                    take th' consequences.
                
                
                When Elmer Peters wuz killed at th' saw-mill Constable Newt Plum wanted
                    t' break th' news gently t' his mother at Greensburg,
                    so he sent her a pustal card in a envelope.
                Th' photergraf art has reached such perfection that it's purty
                    hard t' tell any-buddy from ther pictures these days unless
                    they've got a funny nose er whiskers.
                Th' price o' smokin' terbacker remains jist
                    th' same in spite of the unparalleled alfalfa crop.
                
                
                    January
                    
                    OUR FATE-THE ZODIAC
                    An unusually Interesting Presentation of Astrological Lore and a Careful and
                        Intelligent Analysis of the Gifts of Destiny. Compiled After Years and Years
                        of Arduous Study and Research by the Eminent Brown County, Indiana,
                        Astrologist, Professor Alexander Tansey.
                    DECEMBER 21 TO JANUARY 20
                    Sign of Capricornus (the goat)
                    If you were born during the latter half of December or the earlier half of
                        January you took up the thread of life under the influence of the sign of
                        Capricornus, a dry, dusty sign of the Zodiac.
                    The protégés of Capricornus are cold propositions, calculating and exclusive.
                        They go to the theater alone and never light a cigar if they are with
                        anybody. These  people come into life with
                        everything all set and are immune from the misery of indecision, never
                        talking over a minute with a book-vender or a life-insurance agent. Their
                        cautious feet convert the very stumbling blocks of life into a beautifully
                        paved thoroughfare, whereby they may win out all the faster.
                    These people often seek distinction in the political world, always warming up
                        with a few drinks before they start out to throw the salve into the middle
                        classes. The more modest among them are content with becoming bankers,
                        copper kings and traction magnates. So cautious are the Capricornus heirs
                        that when they set out to land something they almost appear to stand
                        still.
                    Naturally the women of this sign inherit a tenderer impulse than the men, but
                        even they are never popular at school. In womanhood they stand coldly aloof
                        and are thoroughly despised by clerks, dressmakers and street-car
                        conductors.
                    
                    
                    TO EXTERMINATE ROACHES
                    Procure a box of roach powder from the nearest drug store, being careful to
                        have the druggist guarantee it. Scatter the powder freely in the crevices
                        about the sink and pantry, repeating the dose each day until the powder is
                        all gone. In a few days the roaches will arrive at the conclusion that you
                        are not going to buy any more and will desert the premises.
                    IN THE LITERARY WORLD
                    Miss Germ Williams—"I seen where th' author of
                        'Her First Lemon' has been accused of
                        plagiarism."
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut—"Isn't it strange that a
                        person endowed literary instinct would burn a
                        buildin'?"
                    Born—To Mr. and Mrs. Ike Sanders, Jonesville, Idaho, a child,
                        January 10, 1907.
                    
                    Th' woman that tries t' keep up with th'
                        procession don't see near as much as her husband who stands on
                        th' curb.
                    
                    Never feed a pup raw beefsteak if you have a family dependent on you.
                    Ole Niles Turner says it begins t' look like th' Union wuz
                        perserved jist so baseball players could go South to practise.
                    
                    HINTS TO FARMERS
                    A farmer may cleanse his finger nails with peroxide of hydrogen with an
                        orange-wood stick and then apply ground pumice stone to make them look foxy.
                        Ten times each day is often enough.
                    Wild-animal dealers quote trained seals at $2,750. Next to a piano there is
                        nothing so essential to a well-regulated farm.
                    January 14, 1907—Czar's life attempted.
                    Citizen—"Hey, Officer, send for the ambulance! This man has
                        been hit by an auto."
                    Stranger—"Man, h—1! I'm a prominent
                        Indiana democrat."
                    
                    Th' Governor o' Wyoming is th' latest recruit
                        t' th' Peruna beauty contest.
                    Th' editors o' th' Chicago Sunday papers seem
                        t' know everything.
                    It's purty hard t' underpay a city official.
                    General Sherman evidently didn't know nothin'
                        'bout th' selectin' o' wallpaper when he
                        made his famous remark.
                    Th' handcuff king that give an exhibition at Melodcon hall last
                        night used t' be a private banker.
                    In these days when folks come a stragglin' in th' the-ater
                        at all hours it's purty hard t' git your money's
                        worth unless you play in the orchestra.
                    
                    SOME FACTS ABOUT THE MOON
                    The moon's motion on her axis, unlike the electric-light plant in a
                        small town, is entirely uniform. Her angular velocity in her orbit, like a
                        vaudeville program, is subject to slight change. The moon's surface
                        contains about 14,685,000 square miles of good brick land, but no atmosphere
                        and no water. A profound silence reigns over the desolate clay surface
                        sustaining the old theory that no women abide there. A great many people
                        plant garden seeds by the moon, and, in some instances, farmers have plowed
                        by the moon in order to get off the following day to attend the circus.
                        Crocheting by moonlight is extremely injurious to the eyes. There will be an
                        eclipse of the moon at Shelbyville, Ind., May 10, 1908.
                    
                        PROF. ALEX TANSEY IN HIS STUDY
                    
                    
                    Constable Newt Plum reads th' Thaw trial out loud at th'
                        blacksmith shop in th' mornin', an' in
                        th' afternoon th' woman's club gits th'
                        paper.
                    Dock Mopps says that Ole Ez Pash lies like a feller with a family horse
                        t' sell.
                    When anybuddy speaks of th' little town they came from they allus
                        ring in th' city neerdest t' it
                    Marry in haste an'—git a job travelin' on
                        th' road.
                    A dollar saved is a dollar made" is an ole sayin', but who
                        wants t' do without meat all th' time?
                    Ez Pash says he run th' first ingine over th' ole
                        underground railroad between Xenia, Ohio, an' Paducah, Ky.
                    
                    Th' married man that sets 'em up is spendi' his
                        wife's wages.
                    
                        John and Ida got married
                        And lived in Idaho forlorn,
                        John hung around the billiard hall
                        And let Idaho the corn.
                    
                    —Old Song.
                    
                    January 27—Septuagesima Sunday—whatever that may be.
                    January 30, 1649—Charles I lost his head.
                    
                    
                    Ex-Editor Cale Fluhart has discovered another kind o' undesirable
                        citizen—th' feller that eats soup like a walrus.
                    It wuz thought fer a while Sunday that th' pustoffice wuz
                        burnin' up, but it proved t' be a grocery se-gar.
                    Young Lafe Bud has a great eye fer distances. He says he hasn't
                        missed a cuspidor fer nine years.
                    Th' plug fell out o' th' waterin'-trough
                        on th' public square Saturday causin' much damage in
                        th' business district.
                
                
                
                    February
                    
                    JANUARY 20 TO FEBRUARY 19
                    Sign of Aquarius (the Water Bearer)
                    The Romans got together and dedicated the first month of the year to Janus,
                        the two-faced god. There was some dissatisfaction over the dedication, but
                        it was allowed to stand. Persons born during the latter half of this month
                        or the first half of the next start out handicapped by the influence of
                        Aquarius, and in innumerable instances have become piano tuners. Mozart and
                        Mendelssohn belonged to this sign. Prof. Clem Harner is now a member. Such
                        men attain much, but seldom realize the fulfilment of all their desires
                        because they are disposed to fiddle around and discuss the Panama Canal. An
                        heir of Aquarius finds it much easier to order a blue serge suit than to pay
                        for it. Like  a turtle, he is impelled to
                        retire within himself through his own sensitive nature when asked to pay a
                        bill. Their swift soaring fancy often ends in their marrying persons of less
                        sympathetic planets with disastrous results, the wife in almost every
                        instance being allowed the custody of the children and the old home on
                        Chestnut street.
                    
                    
                    Th' feller that belittles his wife in company is only
                        tryin' t' pull her down t' his own size.
                    Another bad thing about "prosperity" is that you
                        can't jingle any money without bein' under suspicion.
                    February 2, 1907—Czar's life attempted.
                    A BAD OMEN
                    It is a bad omen to get mixed up in a stuffy jam with a stout lady wearing
                        goat furs.
                    Walter Wellman may make a dash for the Pole any day now.
                    
                    What has become o' th' ole fashioned family doctor with
                        th' long whiskers, that allus wanted t' be
                        cuttin' somebuddy's leg off?
                    
                    Tell Binkley, cashier o' th' Bean Blossom Trust Company has
                        skipped out after wreckin' th' concern t'
                        th' last penny. He wuz very popular an' had been
                        investin' heavily in tourin' car repairs.
                    
                    SOME HOMELY SUGGESTIONS
                    Never crack walnuts with a gold tooth.
                    When a skirt can not be packed full length in a trunk, gently fold one end of
                        it.
                    Never wear old underwear while traveling. You might get cut up in a
                        wreck.
                    To improve the appearance of clothes-posts, paint them green and train
                        nasturtiums around them, being careful to pull the clothes as they begin to
                        turn and allow them to ripen in the sun.
                    In using a carpet-sweeper with one hand and carrying the baby with the other
                        it will be found very difficult to reach a hair-pin back of the piano.
                    It is not proper to eat soup so you can notice it.
                    PROBABLY NOT
                    There is nothing so aggravating as a fresh boy that is too old to ignore or
                        too young to kick.
                    
                    Th' first thing a young woman should learn after she gits married is
                        how t' tell a Ben Davis apple from th' genuine.
                    Miss Germ Williams has an uncle buried under a tourin' car.
                    You never know how many comical fellers live in your town till you walk
                        thro' th' street with a new hoe on your shoulder.
                    Dr. Knapp, o' Berlin, Germany, has discovered a cure fer red noses,
                        but then a feller that boozes wouldn't waste money on an ocean
                        trip.
                    It don't cost half as much t' live if you don't go
                        down town after supper.
                    
                    SOME HOMELY SUGGESTIONS
                    The father of a bride-to-be should consider himself lucky if he has clothes
                        enough to appear on the veranda.
                    Olives should be picked up with the thumb and index finger.
                    When eating spaghetti the head should hang well over the plate.
                    JUST EXACTLY
                    Enlisting in the United States navy to see the world is like going to the
                        workhouse to learn broom-making.
                    February 22, 1732—George Washington was born. The old fellow
                        wouldn't be in it to-day.
                    
                    Pinky Kerr hez a new inner-seal cap an' you can't tell it
                        from th' real thing.
                    If a feller screwed up his face when he asked fer credit like he does when
                        he's asked t' settle, he wouldn't git it.
                    No servant girl ever gits so well situated that she quits readin'
                        th' "Help Wanted" column.
                    Givin' half th' road t' an ortomobile is
                        th' hardest thing a farmer does next t'
                        plowin'.
                    When th' temperature drops 10 degrees below zero th' ice
                        man ought t' put up er shut up.
                    
                    Jist t' show you how some fellers' minds run, young Lafe
                        Bud has got back from a pleasure trip through th' Northwest,
                        an' he says th' Iowa corn crop is a disappointment.
                    Distant relatives er th' best kind, an' th'
                        further th' better.
                    MUNICIPAL OWNERSHIP A FAILURE
                    After the City Council of Barnesville, Ore., has tried for two years to keep
                        a tin cup on the town pump it has finally given it up and has plugged the
                        well.
                    In Indiana it is considered good luck if, while riding on an interurban car,
                        a white-headed boy with a box of rabbits shares your seat.
                    HINTS TO FARMERS
                    After a farmer's wife cuts his hair she should always scald the
                        crock before putting it back in the milk-house.
                    If you have buggy harness, use insect powder.
                    
                    
                    Tilford Moots' youngest boy has lost five glass eyes since
                        th' marble season begun.
                    A feller feels simple when he's gittin' his photergraf took
                        an' th' result generally shows it.
                    Miss Tawney Apple has a new forty-nine-cent east aisle hat.
                    You never see no safety razors at a dance.
                    Prof. Alex Tansey has given th' medical world a jolt by
                        declarin' that a wig grows after death.
                    What has become o' th' old-fashioned wife that used
                        t' think it wuz wrong t' neglect her household work?
                
                
                
                    March
                    
                    FEBRUARY 19 TO MARCH 20
                    The Sign of Pisces (the Fishes)
                    The Romans made the second month of the year sacred to Neptune, a sea-god who
                        was very fond of water—afterward. People born during the latter
                        half of February or the early half of March enter life under the immediate
                        supervision of Pisces, a sort of watery sign that indicates a disposition to
                        own and operate a milk route, serving their customers at three or four
                        o'clock in the morning and awakening everybody in the flat.
                    While not in the dairy business Darwin, Hugo and Chopin happened in under
                        this sign. Though the natural inclination of the Pisces-born is toward the
                        milk business, should their paths lie in less pleasant places, they may
                        achieve a certain amount of success  in the
                        profession of the law. But they will be many times hungry and discouraged
                        before they can hook up to any coin. The women of this sign delight in
                        Spring's first tender greens and the pale, faint flushes of waking
                        day. In all probability it was of such women that Cale Fluhart was thinking
                        when he penned the beautiful lines:
                    
                        She stood beside the depot door,
                        She was waiting with the rest.
                        The June sun played upon her nose.
                        Sweet emotions filled her chest.
                    
                    Having once overcome their inborn desire to hang around the depot when the
                        trains come in, these women take readily to general housework and become
                        ideal wives and neighbors. The protégés of Pisces are advised to conduct
                        their affairs with as little agitation as possible, never quarreling over a
                        gas bill or arguing with paper-hangers.
                    
                    GENERAL OUTLOOK FOR 1908
                    BY PROF. ALEX TANSEY
                    
                    The year 1908 comprises the latter part of the 132nd and the beginning of the
                        133rd year of American Independence, a fact almost lost sight of. The first
                        day of January, 1908, is the 2,417,578th day since the beginning of the
                        Julian Period.
                    During the year 1908, as heretofore, there will be several eclipses of the
                        sun and the same number of eclipses of the moon. Some will be visible only
                        in Asia, while others can be seen from any seat in the house. Except in rare
                        instances, chronological eras and cycles will remain unchanged.
                    The winter of 1908 will be marked by violent snowstorms in some sections and
                        rain and sleet in others. Through the literary belt of Indiana there will be
                        the toughest sledding known in years. An unusually large batch of
                        "number two" companies playing New York successes will
                        invade the smaller cities of the Middle West with a scale of prices ranging
                        from thirty-five cents to two dollars. These counterfeits may be detected by
                        the yellow date bill posted across the original star's name.
                        Vaudeville will remain as popular as ever, and you will laugh at Bryant and
                        Saville just as hard as you did fifty years ago. Every indication points to
                        another successful season of melodrama, and, "The marriage was not
                        a happy one. A separation soon followed. The wife went to London, where,
                        save for a small annuity settled upon her by a great-aunt, she would have
                        died penniless in the streets  etc.,
                        etc.," will play havoc with the emotions as of old.
                    The winter of 1908 will be particularly hard on those of us who bought meat
                        and other necessities the preceding summer and fall. The summer season will
                        be pretty much the same old thing, except the strawberry boxes will be
                        smaller and two national political conventions will be held. The Democratic
                        platform will contain the party's time-honored appeal to the
                        intelligence of the people, while the Republican platform will dwell at
                        great length on our unparalleled prosperity and take the credit for the blue
                        skies, bounteous crops and wise foreign policy.
                    The same splendid scale of wages for circus musicians that has prevailed in
                        the past will continue: plain, twenty dollars per month; fancy, thirty
                        dollars per month—the players assuming all risk and eating on the
                        lot.
                    The summer of 1908 will last far into September, with a little dash of jacket
                        weather here and there in August. A slight decrease in the price of bacon is
                        promised for November, but at that the cost of living will still be several
                        blocks ahead of salaries and wages. From time to time during the month of
                        December the newspapers will publish most valuable suggestions to Christmas
                        shoppers.
                    Blue serge for men's suitings will hold its own as in former years,
                        the trousers being cut thirty-six at the hips and fifteen at the bottoms,
                        with both side and back pockets. Many new creations for women's
                        apparel will distinguish the year of 1908, and you will probably see more of
                        them than in any preceding year.
                    Taking it all in all, the year of 1908 will be a hummer in lots of respects,
                        and you will have to scheme around and hustle harder than ever to make any
                        kind of a showing at all.
                    
                    HINTS TO FARMERS
                    In selecting fruit-trees be careful to note the personal appearance of the
                        agent. If he wears a celluloid collar and sea bean cuff-buttons tell him you
                        don't wish any to-day.
                    Never pick apples with a croquet mallet.
                    March 15, 1907—Circuses advertise for sober calliope players.
                    Shamrock—A cement block.
                    Spring begins at 1 P. M. to-day.
                    
                    Th' feller that's allus quotin' his wife is
                        generally bald-headed.
                    Th' feller that brags 'bout how cheap he heats his home
                        allus sees th' first robin.
                    Constable Newt Plum says a straight life is th' best policy after
                        all.
                    A baled hay company has leased Melodeon hall fer th' balance
                        o' th' season.
                    Everything seems t' be goin' up these days except
                        self-reducin' corsets.
                    You can't buy nothin' in Noblesville, Indianny, on
                        th' Sabbath but Sunday newspapers an' ther hain't
                        nothin' in them after you blow th' froth off.
                    Now that we've got th' Standard Oil Company on th'
                        run Uncle Sam ought t' git after th' baby food concerns
                        that send circulars through th' mails t' scare
                        mothers.
                    
                    MORE HINTS TO FARMERS
                    Any Republican will tell you that the tariff on wool makes wool higher and
                        woolen clothes cheaper.
                    When you go to a circus never take any paper money with you.
                    To cure a fresh cow utterly ignore her and don't laugh at anything
                        she says.
                    After working hard the year round it is perfectly proper for the farmer to go
                        to the theater.
                    March 22, 1907—Czar's life attempted.
                    March, 1869—Brand Whitlock, Mayor of Toledo, Ohio, born at Urbana,
                        Ohio.
                    Walter Wellman will probably make a dash for the Pole during this month.
                    
                    Tipton Bud has only got one more lodge t' join before he runs fer
                        County Clerk.
                    
                    Times er so good that it'll be purty hard t' git anybuddy
                        t' lay off long enough t' run fer president on
                        th' Dimmycratic ticket.
                    
                    MORE HINTS TO FARMERS
                    There is nothing much to be said in favor of late plowing. Eminent
                        authorities say that under no circumstances should a farmer plow later than
                        10 o'clock. It keeps the horses up late and the dew rusts the
                        plow.
                    Be very careful about currying favor with a mule.
                    A farmer should never pay less than $7 for a plug hat.
                    When drilling for wheat a farmer should see to it that his horses stand
                        erect, keep perfect step and are provided with both right and left
                        flanks.
                    A farmer should never keep any ink about the house. Only recently a farmer
                        near Roundhead, Ohio, signed away the earnings of a life-time by one stroke
                        of the pen.
                    The farmer is the most independent man in the world. He has all the work he
                        can do and is never troubled with having to set a price on anything he
                        raises. He can farm in any position. If he tires of plowing he can sit down
                        in a rocking chair and husk corn.
                    If a farmer boy shows a disposition to run away and join the regular army
                        give him a quarter to spend occasionally.
                    
                    
                    I should think that one o' th' worst features o'
                        sudden adversity would be gittin' used t' five-cent
                        segars.
                    Th' higher some fellers cocks their feet th' less they
                        amount t'.
                    Ther wuz quite a discussion down at th' blacksmith shop this
                        mornin' 'bout th' price o' lobsters.
                        Tipton Bud said: "I bought one once under Cleveland fer thirty
                        cents but I don't know what ther gittin' fer 'em
                        now."
                    A' undesirable citizen is a feller that raises chickens in town.
                
                
                
                    April
                    
                    MARCH 20 TO APRIL. 19
                    Sign of Aries (the Ram)
                    A tailor is not a tailor who kicks when an alteration is to be made.
                            —James DeWolf.
                    
                    The Romans dedicated the blustering month of March to Mars, decorating their
                        business houses and homes in his honor on the first day.
                    People born during the latter half of this month or the earlier half of the
                        next begin life's weary struggle under the influence of the fiery
                        sign of Aries, indicating an overbearing nature and a fast career. These
                        people make their grand entry with a noodle full of fife and drum music that
                        forces them forward to conquer or get a good beating. Once mastering
                        indecision they will bite the hand  that feeds
                        them rather than lose out on something they are after, often marching to
                        success over their own dead bodies. They are wonderfully generous to
                        themselves and have five or six suits of clothes and no end of neckties. The
                        women of this sign have a positive genius for burning money and not
                        listening to reason. Any attempt at coercion and they will go straight back
                        to their mothers and take the children. The men take readily to politics and
                        often become poll-book holders. Henry Clay, Bismarck and Shakespeare
                        belonged to this sign, but only showed up occasionally when there was an
                        initiation.
                    The Aries born thrive in the southern part of the United States and China,
                        and will have frequent recourse to courts of justice. They waste little time
                        repining over unrequited love, and, as some towns do not have a Sunday
                        closing ordinance, so some Aries love affairs reach a happy consummation.
                        The flower of this storm-tossed, skirt-blowing month is the Amaryllis,
                        signifying a stuck-up disposition and loud hosiery.
                    
                    
                    A FEW MORE HINTS TO FARMERS
                    To be a successful farmer it is by no means necessary to cultivate a big crop
                        of troublesome whiskers. It was shown recently in an article in
                        "Farm Life in the Middle West" that some of our most
                        prominent agriculturists are smooth-faced, while others have just the
                        faintest suggestion of a mustache.
                    In operating a corn shredder a farmer should caution his wife against getting
                        her apron caught in the machinery while he is in town playing pool.
                    GREENS
                    Speaking of dandelion greens, the poet says:
                    
                        Dear common flower, that grow'st
                        beside the way,
                        Fringing the dusty road with
                        harmless gold,
                        First pledge of blithesome May.
                    
                    
                    Pinky Kerr says he seen a Pittsburg girl once an' she wuz undershot
                        from blowin' sut off her nose.
                    
                    Where ignorance is bliss it's foolish to borrow your
                        neighbor's newspaper.
                    
                    ANOTHER HINT TO FARMERS
                    A farmer should never wear celluloid cuffs while playing croquet. The rattle
                        confuses the other players.
                    It is said by those in a position to know that Walter Wellman's dash
                        for the Pole will occur the latter part of this month.
                    April 17, 1907—Czar's life attempted.
                    
                    A paper-hanger will promise anything.
                    Next t' a sound Dimmycrat th' most scarce thing is grass in
                        front of a cheap flat.
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut went out t' play cards t'day
                        an' win a little bric-à-brac fer th' house.
                    No family is ever so poor that they don't have a couple o'
                        crayon portraits hangin' in the parlor—Paw and Maw.
                    No one kin possibly have any idea how really good times er in this country
                        till they try t' build a four-room house.
                    
                    BIOGRAPHY OF CALE FLUHART
                    Ex-Editor Cale Fluhart
                    
                    Ex-Editor Cale Fluhart was stole by the Indians just out of Haverhill, Mass.,
                        many years ago at the age of four. He afterwards escaped and wandered
                        through the unbroken wilderness to the home of his parents at Lafayette,
                        Ind. After graduating from Purdue University he went to Pickreltown, Ohio,
                        then a small village, and launched The Pilot, a vigorous
                        publication for "the plain people," and his fame as a
                        fearless and forcible writer spread rapidly, not only through Logan County,
                        but as far east as Larue. Mr. Fluhart had much to do with the development of
                        the Madriver Valley and the establishment of a post-office at West Liberty.
                        During the memorable campaign of '76 Editor Fluhart's
                        scorching editorials were read and re-read by dozens of the most prominent
                        farmers, whose productive bottom-land acres stretched from Slaty Hollow to
                        the McKee's Creek Church. During the strenuous days that followed
                        the counting out of Tilden The Pilot fairly sizzled with
                        hot stuff. One cold, dark night Editor Fluhart slipped out of his home and
                        started by a circuitous route to the grocery to get a can of cove oysters,
                        when some assassin fired  from ambush and
                        forever stilled his pencil hand with a volley of buckshot. That discouraging
                        episode in the life of Mr. Fluhart ruined his ambition and squashed his
                        brilliant career.
                    Having outlived his usefulness by more than a score of years Mr. Fluhart is
                        still keenly alert,  watching events with all
                        the interest of a man in his prime. He is a daily visitor at the barber
                        shop, and revels among the newspapers and magazines, his journalistic
                        instinct never deserting him.
                    
                    MORNING AND EVENING STARS, 1908
                    Mercury will be Evening Star about March 1, June 27 and October 23; and
                        Morning Star about April 14, August 12 and December 1.
                    Venus will be Morning Star till September 14; then Evening Star the rest of
                        the year.
                    Jupiter will be Evening Star till July 16; then Morning Star the rest of the
                        year. Subject to change.
                    Walter Wellman has received advices from the Pole requesting him to defer his
                        dash on account of an ice-makers' convention filling all the
                        hotels. This month will probably see him off.
                    
                    
                    Mushyroons er purty scarce this year, but th' cool, bracin'
                        weather only seems t' stimulate th' liars.
                    Ex-Editor Cale Fluhart seen a blue racer on th' ole Pash place
                        yisterday but he didn' have no tape measure with him so he
                        didn' kill it.
                    Buildin' material, clothin', bacon, radishes,
                        onions—a few more warm days an' everything will be up.
                    Th' more insignificant a feller is th' bigger th'
                        pipe he smokes.
                
                
                
                    May
                    
                    APRIL 19 TO MAY 20
                    Sign of Taurus (the Bull)
                    The Romans dedicated the month of April to the bright planet, Venus, holding
                        the twenty-third day sacred to her honor. People born between the dates of
                        April 19 and May 20, inclusive, enter life under the guidance of Taurus, a
                        strong, husky sign bequeathing to its protégés all the sterling attributes a
                        newspaper hands to a prominent citizen after he is dead—if he has
                        been a subscriber.
                    These people are the squatty snarled apple-trees of society. They assume
                        Life's heritage at a time when Tennessee strawberries and long,
                        bright green, tasteless cucumbers invade the markets, and Nature, tired of
                        her mantle of snow and ice, warms up to the situation. The heirs of Taurus
                        have  self-reliance and buoyancy of spirit, and
                        frequently reach high places—such positions as postmaster and
                        constable. They are seldom talkative and are fond of canned corn. Especially
                        is this true of the men who marry Taurus women, for it matters not how much
                        money he owes, you can never tell it by looking at his wife. As long as he
                        can get credit, her faithful feet will follow. Hers is the devotion of
                        Clytie, who lived just out of Upper Sandusky, Ohio, and became enamored of
                        Helios, a pianola salesman of good address, and followed him to Niles, Ohio,
                        where he died as he had lived—a profligate.
                    Taurus people inherit an excellent physique that endures many years. A
                        well-known and popular Taurus woman is to-day traveling with a burlesque
                        company, posing in Rock of Ages at the age of 79. When
                        Fate directs them toward Italy, Sicily, Northern Spain or Louisville,
                        Kentucky, they lose their buoyancy.
                    
                    
                    THE ORIGIN OF MAY MOVING
                    
                    The now almost universal custom of moving on the first day of May was first
                        noticeable at Fremont, Ohio, on May first, 1822, and spread rapidly east and
                        then south along what is known as the Cincinnati range of hills. It is due
                        principally to our restless American spirit and poor janitor service. It is
                        getting to be a popular fad among flat owners to insist on tenants signing
                        leases. People have been known to live in the same flat one year, thinking
                        that a lease held them. If a tenant owes seven or eight months'
                        rent and desires to move into a more select neighborhood, a lease will not
                        detain him. In such cases, however, it is well to have the furniture in your
                        wife's name.
                    Ascension Day, May 9, 1891—Prof. Leonza fell out of a balloon about
                        two miles and a half above Lewiston, Ohio, and died in a cornfield.
                    
                    Long before a feller recovers from his wife's Easter hat, she begins
                        t' fret 'bout th' fall shapes.
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut bought a set o' Shakespeare yisterday,
                        payin' one dollar down an' th' rest
                        eventually.
                    Newt Plum's son-in-law has advertised fer a girl t' do
                        general housework an' no questions asked.
                    It don't take a landlady long t' prune out her
                        boarders.
                    
                        HAPPY DAYS
                    
                    
                    THE SEASONS (Pittsburgh Time)
                    CORRECTED DAILY BY THE EMERSON SHOE COMPANY
                    
                        Vernal Equinox.....Spring begins.....March 21 d. 1 h. 13 m. P.
                            M.
                        Summer Solstice.....Summer " .....June 22 d. 9 h. 3 m. A.
                            M.
                        Autumnal Equinox.....Autumn ".....Sept. 22 d. 11 h. 49 m. P.
                            M.
                        Winter Solstice.....Winter ".....Dec. 22 d. 6 h. 31 m. P.
                            M.
                    
                    May, 1898—Spanish-American War. Cigarettes and ice-boxes.
                    May, 1898—Admiral George Dewey, U. S. A., blew a few old disabled
                        Spanish hulks out of Manila Bay, awakening the officers and men and
                        scattering them in the surf. Little or nothing is ever heard of Dewey these
                        days.
                    
                    When you see your groceryman put two quarts o' strawberries in a one
                        quart paper bucket you sort o' lose interest in things.
                    Some church members would never git t' see th' inside of a
                        the-ater if it wuzn't fer th' great, immortal play, Uncle
                        Tom's Cabin, with its corn shredder musicians, burr head jubilee
                        singers an' mouse colored mule.
                    It strikes me that our boasted prosperity has jist about reached th'
                        limit when a catfish bites on a wooden minnie.
                    Th' feller that calls you "brother" generally
                        wants something that don't belong to him.
                    It must be blamed embarrassin' t' ask a rich wife fer a
                        quarter now an' then.
                    
                    Sound travels at the rate of 1,142 feet per second—about thirteen
                        miles in a minute. So that if we hear a clap of thunder half a minute after
                        the flash, we may calculate that the discharge of electricity is six and a
                        half miles off.
                    May, 1907—The roller-skating craze strikes Indiana. Many saddened
                        homes.
                    May, 1906—Long-sleeve glove famine spreads throughout the United
                        States. Much suffering below the elbows.
                    May 23, 1907—Czar's life attempted.
                    
                    You never see no "to let" signs on Easy street.
                    If your own wife won't do housework what's th' use
                        o' lookin' any further?
                    Lots o' blamed lazy farmers chew an' smoke that never
                        "touch th' weed."
                    No matter how bad things may go at home th' average housewife will
                        "bridge" 'em over.
                    Pinky Kerr says a nature faker is a bum actor that travels jist t'
                        see th' scenery.
                    Ole Niles Turner talks so much he can't smoke a pipe.
                    
                    Cheap shoes don't begin t' hurt fer two er three days after
                        you put 'em on.
                    A bunch o' nice celery makes a great decoy fer a bum dinin'
                        hall.
                    A friend of Walter Wellman has just received a postal card from the eminent
                        explorer, saying that he had been persuaded to remain over for a dance at
                        Spitzbergen, and it is not likely that he will make a dash for the Pole for
                        some weeks yet.
                    
                    Th' farmer that drives t' town t' play pool
                        'cause it's too wet t' plow never gathers no
                        moss.
                    Young Lafe Bud says his wife spent a hundred an' eighty dollars last
                        year practisin' on newspaper recipes.
                    It'll son be time fer th' feller that loks bum in a straw
                        hat t' grow desponsdent.
                    May is th' month when th' ole clothes man swindles your
                        wife out o' your overcoat.
                    Never ask th' feller that makes th' most of his
                        opportunities t' watch your store while you go t'
                        dinner.
                    
                    Th' feller that sets on a store box with his mouth full of scrap
                        terbacker while his wife is at home sewin' fer a livin'
                        knows jist exactly how t' regulate th' railroads.
                    No matter where they are, jist one bottle o' red pop an'
                        some fellers want t' hug ther girls.
                    June brides grow uneasy.
                    
                    
                    While talkin' 'bout ortomobiles th' other day, Ez
                        Pash remarked that he'd like t' see that Taft machine in
                        Ohio.
                    One good thing 'bout this cold spring—phonergraf owners
                        can't raise ther windows.
                    Ther's plenty o' people makin' a hit in society
                        that couldn't stand th' Romburg test.
                    Every day ushers in some new kind of a grafter.
                
                
                
                    June
                    
                    MAY 20 TO JUNE 21
                    Sign of Gemini (the Twins)
                    The old Romans called May the boundary day 'twixt the bleak,
                        leafless, coal-buying season and the hot, sweltering months when newspaper
                        circulations dwindle and cheap rates to Niagara Falls prevail. May was
                        dedicated to the Goddess Maia, and the opening of the general Assizes,
                        whatever that means, was fixed for the first day.
                    Persons waking to life the latter half of this month or the earlier half of
                        the next take their inheritance from the sign of Gemini II, which indicates
                        a changeable existence. The Gemini born usually marry at the age of nineteen
                        without a single prospect. They love to sit in a park and look over the
                        daily papers, and read the lavish offers of fifty to one hundred dollars  a day to bright, hustling young men of
                        character and no capital. During the course of their restless, feverish
                        careers they solicit insurance, collect for instalment houses, work
                        advertising schemes, and finally land square on the hummer. These wayward
                        children of Gemini inherit an extravagant love for sea travel, and often
                        peel potatoes on the steamers that ply between Cleveland and Buffalo.
                        Whatever the country or clime, however, they will be found hanging around
                        the cheap boarding-house districts, impelled hither more on account of
                        hunger than by mere idle amusement. If the protégés of Gemini ever do enter
                        into the competition of the business world, it is best that they shift the
                        undertaking of important affairs as much as possible to the months of July
                        and August, when well-to-do people have gone North to escape the hot weather
                        and there is no one left behind to watch their homes.
                    
                    
                    A liar is a person that disagrees with President Roosevelt.
                    June 9, 1907—Czar's life attempted.
                    1852—Harriet Beecher Stowe writes Uncle Tom's Cabin, little
                        dreaming that it would be the stepping-stone to the stage for 20,000 blonde
                        children.
                    June, 1763—Pontiac's Indian ball club wins from Fort
                        Mackinaw.
                    
                    Prof. Alex Tansey, our school teacher, predicts that in th' next ten
                        years ther will be dollar excursions t' th' moon
                        an' tickets will be good returnin' Monday via Clyde,
                        Ohio.
                    
                    Th' popularity o' round steaks an' liver wuz
                        greater in 1907 than in all other years combined.
                    
                    Th' feller that will pay if he's got it, an'
                        th' feller that is slow pay an' th' dead beat er
                        all purty much tarred with th' same stick.
                    June 15, 1215—King John granted Magna Charta.
                    June 18, 1778—The British evacuate Philadelphia on account of the
                        Sunday closing ordinance.
                    
                    Uncle Niles Turner says he used t' know a feller in Pickreltown,
                        Ohio, that could make a speech without first takin' two er three
                        drinks.
                    Miss Tawney Apple is undecided whether t' teach kindergarten er
                        chiny paintin' er git married.
                    Miss Jane Fluhart who has been dying t' git married fer years passed
                        quietly away Monday.
                    It's funny somebuddy don't invent a collar that'll
                        fit a home-made shirt.
                    Things er never the same again after you have your 'phone taken
                        out.
                    
                    "I am dumfounded at the preposterous arguments sometimes offered by
                        our friends of the gold standard, and it seems to me that it will be many
                        decades before our country recovers its equilibrium after that greatest of
                        all national disgraces, the silver crime of seventy-three. The workings of
                        the gold standard can no better be illustrated than by the fact that if you
                        toss a five-dollar gold piece into a crowd one man gets it. If you fling
                        five silver dollars into the same throng five men get them, thus proving
                        conclusively a vicious and discriminating system of distribution under the
                        gold standard."—Extract from the famous speech of
                        Ex-Editor Cale Fluhart, delivered at Roundhead, Ohio, before the Society for
                        the Suppression of Blind Accordion Players.
                    Summer begins at 9 A. M. today.
                    NOT VERY LONG
                    If the newspapers of this country would refuse to print foot-ball fatalities
                        and pictures of the players the game would not last as long as a circus
                        concert.
                    
                    Th' feller that kin tell th' exact number o' days
                        since he quit drinkin' allus breaks over.
                    One o' th' hardest things 'bout livin' in
                        a flat is beggin' fer wall paper.
                    Young, Lafe Bud says whoever designed th' women's
                        stockin's this spring must a been a landscape gardener er a
                        tattooed man.
                    You don't often run against anything as silly as a young
                        widower.
                    Th' biggest "rubes" at a State Fair er city
                        people.
                    Mrs. Tilford Moots' nephew from Ohio is visitin' her.
                        He's quite a feller an' makes twenty-one dollars a week
                        when he's not strikin'.
                    
                    KEBOBBED OYSTERS
                    Strangle fifty oysters and singe over an alcohol lamp. Chop enough hay for
                        one truck horse and add a little dash of parsley. Beat two real eggs into
                        insensibility and scatter. Have at easy hailing distance an ordinary baking
                        dish such as magicians use, lift the oysters by the wings and dip them first
                        in the eggs and then in sawdust (in the absence of sawdust bird sand will
                        answer), and throw at once into the baking dish. Cut a table-spoon into
                        small pieces and sprinkle freely over the top and cook in quick oven. Then
                        give them to the man that hauls your ashes.
                    June 28, 1778—The first Pitcher was rushed at Monmouth.
                    A mollycoddle is a fellow who washes dishes while his wife plays golf.
                    
                    
                    Young Lafe Bud speaks two languages—English an'
                        baseball.
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut has been laid up fer a day er two an' she looks
                        as pale an' thin as a carriage painter's arm.
                    Th' chronic grumbler is a church social compared t'
                        th' feller that agrees with everything you say.
                    Ther's been a noticeable fallin' off o' editors at
                        Niagry Falls this year on account o' th' anti-pass
                        laws.
                
                
                
                    July
                    
                    JUNE 21 TO JULY 22
                    Sign of Cancer (the Crab)
                    After a stormy debate lasting some days, the Romans decided to dedicate the
                        radiant month of June to Luna, the moon-eyed goddess. Persons ushered into
                        this vale of tears during the latter half of this fickle month, or along
                        about the Fourth of July, enter life under doubtful influences, and are
                        liable to be cancer specialists. Though gifted in many directions to the
                        brink of genius, they are described by Emerson as "always looking
                        for money from home." Being neither broad-minded nor open to
                        conviction, nothing will shake their belief that the foreigner pays the tax.
                        Domestic in their nature, they long for the close companionship of home
                        life, and will often stick there till they are forty  or forty-five years old without paying any board. They
                        occasionally pursue harmonious, conventional ways of life, but seldom vote
                        the Democratic ticket.
                    
                    
                    Ther'll never be no safe an' sane Fourth o' July
                        in this country as long as women an' girls er allowed t'
                        shoot Roman candles.
                    LOOK!!
                    Instead of starting your kitchen fire with, kerosene, first arrange your
                        earthly affairs and then procure a quarter of a yard of flannel. Fold the
                        cloth into a square pad and saturate it thoroughly with chloroform and apply
                        to the nose and mouth, being careful to secure it by means of a cord tied
                        about the head. Then retire.
                    
                    Newt Plum's son-in-law hain't got no tellyphone, so he has
                        t' go home t' his dinner ever' day.
                    
                    Th' Grand Exalted Ruler o' th' Elks has decided
                        t' do away with celluloid elk teeth fer watch charms in order
                        t' help preserve th' graceful animal.
                    
                    Th' Indynoplus saloons will close ther front bars on th'
                        Fourth, but lots o' people will git shot in th' back.
                    1899—The South African War began, the Boers fighting behind rocks
                        and the English fighting behind the Irish.
                    July 17, 1907—Czar's life attempted.
                    
                    Time will never be any great success as a healer as long as we have
                        t' pay taxes.
                    It seems t' me that when a feller hain't got neither time
                        ner money t' do a thing our celebrated prosperity has reached
                        th' limit.
                    A feller's wife never runs off when he wants her to.
                    Miss Germ Williams says they have nine kittens at her home—literally
                        speakin'.
                    Th' greatest o' all "trunk mysteries" is
                        how a woman kin put so much in 'em.
                    
                    QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
                    CONDUCTED BY DR. MOPPS
                    I am often kidded about my slender arms. How can I develop them? ELCIE.
                    Answer—Scrubbing is a splendid remedy. Get down on your knees and
                        scrub first with one hand and then with the other for eight hours each day,
                        letting your full weight rest on the thumb and forefinger of either
                        hand.
                    May I dye a pair of duck slippers to match an olive green touring car? EILLEEN.
                    Answer—Certainly.
                    Is there no simple home preparation that will make my hands soft and pretty?
                            LUCILE.
                    Answer—One cupful of milk, one cupful of cornmeal, one cupful of
                        sugar. Put the baking powder in the last thing.
                    How may I tell a good canteloup?
                    Answer—See a clairvoyant.
                    Papa is thinking some of breaking up and losing everything. Kindly suggest
                        some honorable employment for a sensible young lady of eighteen. MILDRED.
                    Answer—General housework is the least worked field.
                    Can you inform me of anything cheaper than Sunday newspapers for fuel? MYRTLE.
                    
                    Answer—Breakfast food samples.
                    I am ambitious to be a literary woman, caring little for cooking and dress.
                        Is writing profitable?
                    INEZ.
                    Answer—Backing envelopes for a mail-order house pays fairly
                        well.
                    
                    
                    Every feller that smokes cigarettes hain't a weakling but all
                        th' weaklings smoke 'em.
                    Th' feller that knocks his home town is mean enough t'
                        shave himself with a piece of a celery dish.
                    Never too late to mend—a blue serge suit.
                    July 29, 1472—First almanack printed.
                    
                    
                    Tilford Moots wuz held up in his own door-yard last night at eight
                        o'clock an' robbed of a dollar an' thirty cents.
                        Th' robbers fired at him, nine times but his family, that wuz in
                        th' front room readin' th' Thaw trial,
                        didn't hear th' shots.
                    Ther's two Indiana showmen I've allus wanted t'
                        see—Ben Hur an' Ben Wallace.
                    The manager o' th' Indynoplus ball club says Pitcher Bales,
                        o' Carmel, has a fine rural delivery.
                    If Rockyfeller could eat he wouldn't be so rich.
                
                
                
                    August
                    
                    JULY 22 TO AUGUST 22
                    Sign of Leo (the Lion)
                    July was made sacred to Jupiter Ammon by our old Roman fore-fathers.
                    Persons entering life during the latter half of July or the earlier half of
                        August take their inheritance from the smooth, oily, magnetic Leo, a hot,
                        fast, kaleidoscopic sign governing the heat of life. These people are all
                        right in many respects, and make good, cool-headed janitors if handled with
                        gloves. In their enthusiasm they frame up ideals which they worship
                        illimitably. Their inborn magnetism and quick response to their
                        party's call have made them formidable factors in politics. William
                        Jennings Bryan might be a protégé of this sign, and, although he was
                        defeated twice, he made  many converts by the
                        spell of his presence, and incidentally threw several doubtful states into
                        the lap of the enemy.
                    Leo children rebel against any proposition that restricts freedom of action,
                        and prefer to use their own system. If they are wise they will wend their
                        way to the tenth climate and launch their most important undertakings during
                        the first Tuesday in November. The flower of Leo is the morning-glory, which
                        hangs on like a poor relation.
                    
                    
                    TRUE DEMOCRACY
                    A POWERFUL, AND SENSATIONAL SPEECH DELIVERED BY HON. EX-EDITOR CALE FLUHART BEFORE THE JACKSON CLUB, OF BROWN COUNTY, INDIANA, AT ITS
                            ANNUAL BANQUET
                    Mr. Chairman, Cittofellizens and Members of the Alfalfa Glee Club: Since the
                        memorable convention of 1896, when William Jennings [tumultuous applause]
                        Bryan thrilled the magnificent assemblage with his matchless oratory
                        [deafening applause], the Democratic party has been floundering in the
                        troubled waters of revolt and discord, and oozing further and further from
                        the safe moorings of stability and intellect into the dense thickets of
                        demoralization and deceit. This Chautauqua headliner from Nebraska
                        [unparalleled applause] has beckoned and beckoned until what was once the
                        safest harbor in the world is now a sand-bar, the Democratic party. Since
                        William Jennings Bryan [at this point the applause fairly shook Melodeon
                        Hall, and a tier of improvised seats collapsed, seriously injuring an old
                        lady, who was carried to the livery stable below] entered the councils of
                        the grand old Democratic party we have had to be content with uproarious
                        applause. This perennial candidate [deafening din] speaks in the forenoon at
                        Hurley, Wis-consin, in the afternoon at Tampa, Florida, and in the evening
                        at Bangor, Maine, always on the go, crowding halls and fair grounds at a
                        dollar a throw, while the poor old party of Jefferson dances for liver. Why,
                        friends, think of Jackson,  Jefferson,
                        scholarly Tilden, Hancock and his military bearing, ponderous Cleveland, and
                        other great leaders of the Democratic party in the past, and then think of
                        the "parader of the Platte." [At the very mention of the
                        Platte the applause continued at great length.] Why, friends, I remember
                        once of being in Jasonville, this state, where a vast throng had gathered to
                        hear this so-called "peerless" Nebraskan [here the
                        applause was so prolonged and variegated in its nature that Mr. Fluhart
                        kindly consented to quit speaking and Miss Fawn Lippincut recited
                        "The Smoldering Embers of Democracy" in her usual charming
                        manner, duplicating her former successes].
                    
                    
                    In buildin' a cement house be sure an' put two-inch
                        studdin' an' lath on th' inside. If you
                        don't th' loan company will have a damp house on its
                        hands.
                    August, 1907—Eradication of Pulajanism in the Isle of Leyte.
                    August 11, 1907—Czar's life attempted.
                    August 13, 1906—Charge of the dark brigade at Brownsville,
                        Texas.
                    
                    Th' first one t' ketch a circus in a lie a boy.
                    
                    Constable Newt Plum's son-in-law says this is th' first
                        Summer he has ever had t' choose between somethin'
                        t' eat an' some-thin' t' wear.
                    
                    Take a nickel's worth o' rhubarb an' add five
                        dollars' worth o' sugar an' cook till done
                        an' you've got one o' th' most expensive
                        liver regulators on th' market.
                    A GOOD RULE
                    When you buy a cantaloup of a peddler, always take his number.
                    August 22, 1607—Captain John Smith sailed for Jamestown, where he
                        founded the Smith Manufacturing Company and supplied the United States.
                    
                    A gypsy fortune-teller told Tipton Bud yisterday that Bryan wuz right in
                        1896.
                    Elgin Tyler, who has been blowin' up stumps on th' ole
                        Moots place fer th' past week, has gone over t'
                        th' Pash farm where he will enter a broader field.
                    A. chap ort t' save a few o' th' long evenings he
                        spends with his girl till after they're married.
                    Pinky Kerr says he never heerd o' any-buddy payin' cash fer
                        a pianner.
                    What has become o' th' ole fashioned round-faced butcher
                        that used t' give you a piece o' bologna with
                        ever' purchase.
                    
                    Th' smartest girl in school an' the purtiest girl in town
                        er never mistaken fer one another.
                    Ever' once in awhile you meet a feller in some honorable walk
                        o' life that wuz once admitted t' th' bar.
                    "Friend after friend departs. Oh, who has not loaned an
                        umbrella?"
                    August 28, 1830—First locomotive was built in the United States.
                    
                    Tilford Moots says it's purty hard t' tell jist what would
                        happen on th' Potomac if President Roosyfel would wake up some
                        mornin' an' not find his name in th' paper.
                    In these Babylonian days ever' young woman should know how
                        t' scream.
                    Miss Germ Williams says peroxide blondes ort t' be tagged jist like
                        oleomargarine.
                    A long memory an' a long tongue er reg'lar ole cronies.
                    Tipton Bud went over t' th' Morgan County poorhouse
                        t' day t' see an ole friend that studied
                        bookkeepin' th' same time he did.
                    
                    Overwork has killed more people than all th' loafin' put
                        together.
                    This has been a great year fer breakin' records, but Lafe
                        Bud's phonergraf seems t' have escaped.
                    WARNING!
                    The touring car mortality statistics of the United States for nineteen
                        hundred and seven prove conclusively that it is dangerous to mix booze with
                        gasoline.
                    
                    
                    Uncle Ez Pash asked Pinky Kerr what States he went through when he wuz with a
                        circus an' Pinky said, "How'd I know? We traveled
                        at night."
                    People that shirk around all winter er th' first ones t'
                        take a vacation in th' spring.
                    Uncle Niles Turner's nephew died et Upper Sandusky, Ohio, Monday. He
                        used t' be a life insurance solicitor till he lost his cunning.
                    Th' average young man thinks he's a great financier if he
                        only spends all he makes fer clothes.
                
                
                
                    September
                    
                    AUGUST 22 TO SEPTEMBER 22
                    Sign of Virgo (the Virgin)
                    August, the month when Kansas yells for help, was dedicated to Ceres, goddess
                        of corn, by the old-timers.
                    Folks born the latter half of this month or the first two weeks of September
                        belong to the dry food class, and enter upon the stage of life under the
                        sign of Virgo, indicating an inborn aptitude to voice the mind of the public
                        before the public is really aware of the issues. Virgo heirs make great
                        newspaper reporters. Their manner of digging up news is so engaging that
                        their informant does not wake up until the paper has gone to press and the
                        reporter is well on his way to the golf links, chuckling all the while. A
                        Virgo reporter always carries an old  sleeve to
                        laugh in. Excellent as this investigative turn of mind may be, the protégés
                        of Virgo often get their newspapers in a jam on account of their
                        unconquerable mania for getting all the news, and their editors have to go
                        home in closed carriages for weeks at a time.
                    Next to the love of excitement attending the gathering of sensational news
                        comes the fondness for getting a prominent position on a grand stand or the
                        end of a special car while President Roosevelt shows his teeth and burns
                        Bryan powder. The Virgo women are fond of finery and social distinction, but
                        a little shy when it comes to laying out their husband's underwear
                        and putting his other shirt where he can find it if he should suddenly
                        receive an assignment to go to French Lick and interview Tom Taggart on the
                        future plans of the Democratic party. Any month in the year will prove
                        congenial for Virgo interests.
                    
                    
                    Miss Immortelle Bud says ther hain't no use in sendin' out
                        weddin' invitations if you've already got a pair
                        o' candle labras.
                    An ole theatrical friend o' Pinky Kerr's married a circus
                        rider th' other day an' used th' three ring
                        ceremony.
                    If you can't be good, solicit insurance.
                    September 12, 1907—Czar's life attempted.
                    
                    Miss Tawney Apple says th' ole wheezy phonergraf down at
                        th' millinery store has been singin'
                        "Shy—anne, Shy—anne" so blamed much that
                        she has no desire t' see Buffalo Bill's show.
                    
                    Aunt Tabithy Plum says ther hain't nothin' like goose
                        grease and onions fer babies. She ort t' know. She's
                        buried nine.
                    
                    "Peace has its victories no less than war," but it
                        doesn't have as many monuments t' unveil.
                    Saturday, October 14, 1769—Humboldt born. (Published by
                        request.)
                    An architect is a fellow that talks you into going in debt three or four
                        thousand dollars more.
                    
                    Miss Tawney Apple is doin' some fine burnt wood work these days. She
                        used t' iron shirts in a laundry.
                    I told ole Ez Pash that Link Gage had jist died of a complication of
                        diseases, an' he said, "Why, I never knowed he
                        drank."
                    Constable Newt Plum's son-in-law expects t' move in a
                        cottage this fall if he kin find one next t' somebuddy
                        that's got a tellyphone.
                    Ther's not much weight t' anything a coal dealer says.
                    Selling out at cost—"Wuz $19 now $4."
                    
                    Even a clean collar makes some fellers look like they'd jist got out
                        of a sick bed.
                    Doc Mopps extracted a side comb from th' stomach o' young
                        Lafe Bud yisterday. He says people can't be too careful when
                        eatin' home-made pies.
                    September 24—Autumn begins at 12 M. to-day.
                    
                    Newt Plum's son-in-law says he hopes th' Hague peace
                        conference won't stop th' ice wars.
                    The increased price o' horseshoe nails don't make no
                        difference t' th' feller that wears a belt.
                    Ther's lots o' folks sportin' around in
                        tourin' cars that don't know where ther next quart
                        o' gasoline is comin' from.
                    Prize fighters er rapped up in ther own business.
                    
                    Th' feller that hires an eminent lawyer t' defend him never
                        gits off very easy.
                    CONSTABLE NEWT PLUM
                    On September 27, 1908, Newt Plum enters on his thirty-third year as
                        constable. His unfailing devotion to duty, in addition to his unswerving
                        free trade proclivities, is the admiration of all, regardless of party. The
                        illustration below shows Constable Plum fully armed, and ready for
                        business.
                    
                    
                    
                    A new janitor sweeps clean.
                    Jedgin' by th' beauty contest pictures in th'
                        Indianny papers th' peach crop must a got nipped a little around
                        th' edges.
                    Th' feller that clips his horse in th' winter time allus
                        wears an ulster overcoat.
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut has discontinued her Battle Creek diet an'
                        worried down her first pig's foot o' th' season
                        yisterday.
                
                
                
                    October
                    
                    SEPTEMBER 23 TO OCTOBER 23
                    Sign of Libra (the Scales)
                    It isn't quite clear who dedicated September, but those who pick up
                        the thread of life under the influence of the sign of Libra will have a fine
                        liberality of thought and rare good judgment when it comes to picking out a
                        boarding-house or a good nickel cigar.
                    These people, above those of all other signs, seem to get in on all the real
                        bargains of life. Longfellow has said that "in this world every man
                        is an anvil or a hammer." The Libra fellows fulfil the prophecy of
                        the hammer—all being knockers of a high order of excellence. Born
                        leaders, they are bad losers. Theirs is the power that enables others to
                        sell you shoes that almost kill you, clothes 
                        that wrinkle across the back, and six-dollar shirts with your monogram
                        worked in the sleeve.
                    Unfortunately, the physique of the Libra protégés is less robust than their
                        mentality, but at that they get the goods. When fate unites them in marriage
                        with an heir of Leo or Sagittarius, it is almost certain to be a blow-off,
                        for these people of the fine triplicity are always kindling something. The
                        women of the Libra sign measure up fairly well, except that they are
                        extravagant, and sometimes contract pecuniary entanglements that keep their
                        husbands' noses in close proximity to the grindstone until
                        overtaken by the grim harvester. The flower of this heaven-kissed month is
                        the poor little violet:
                    
                        Half-hidden from the eye,
                        Fair as a star when only one
                        Is shining in the sky.
                    
                    
                    I don't see how a feller kin sell cantaloupes six days in
                        th' week an' go t' church on Sunday.
                    October, 1492—Columbus soaks Queen Isabella's jewelry and
                        starts out to discover America.
                    October 9, 1907—Czar's life attempted.
                    
                    With all th' big men high up in public life endorsin'
                        Peruna it must be purty discouragin' t' th' W. C.
                        T. U.
                    
                    Th' worst feature of a new baby is it's mother's
                        singin'.
                    
                    After a feller gits famous it don't take long fer some one
                        t' bob up that used t' set by him at school.
                    TAKE NO CHANCES
                    "It doesn't cost anything to be courteous," is an
                        old saying, but if somebody asks you what time it is on a dark, back street,
                        guess at it.
                    It was never intended that salaries and wages should keep pace with the cost
                        of getting soused.
                    
                    Nothin' sounds as flat as an extemporaneous speech when you read it
                        in th' paper.
                    Miss Germ Williams is ambitious t' be th' wart an'
                        mole editress of a woman's journal.
                    Ther's a fat boy in ever' town.
                    Breakfast foods have done a great deal toward "buildin'
                        up" magazines.
                    Young Lafe Bud says he'd hate t' be in charge o'
                        th' wing counter when some women git t' heaven.
                    
                    The following speech was delivered at Larue, Ohio, from the rear platform of
                        a special train, by U. S. Senator Clem Jones:
                    "My friends, I regret that I have only five minutes to talk to you.
                        [Great applause.] I deem it a great pleasure to be permitted to address the
                        good citizens of the prosperous capital of old Marion [at this point the
                        Senator's secretary reminded him that it was not a
                        county-seat]—or, I mean, so near a prosperous capital. This
                        morning, under benignant skies, I consider it one of the most pleasant
                        events of my life to be able to speak at the home of my old and
                        distinguished friend, Judge Pusey [at this point the Senator's
                        secretary called his attention to the fact that Judge Pusey lives at
                        Bucyrus]—of your neighboring city of Bucyrus. It is a special
                        privilege to be permitted on this auspicious occasion to remind you that the
                        coming combat for supremacy by the two great political parties of this
                        prosperous nation [at this point the secretary reminded the Senator that the
                        fall election was a state election] that comes one year from this
                        November—or, I should say, last November, or, I mean, November two
                        years hence—is of such great importance to those engaged in farming
                        the wide fields of old Hardin County [at this point the Senator was reminded
                        that he was still in Marion County]—and old Marion County, that I
                        warn you to think well before casting that most sacred of all things, your
                        ballot.
                    "You should point with pride to the magnificent factory on my left,
                        and thank the grand old Republican party that such concerns are allowed to
                        prosper [Hisses. At  this point the secretary
                        whispered to the Senator that the factory had been closed for three years
                        and had bankrupted every citizen of the town]—all over our broad
                        land. I want to say one word more about our unparalleled prosperity. [At
                        this point the Senator's attention was called to the fact that his
                        time was up, and the train pulled out.]"
                    
                    
                    Uncle Seth How, of Urbana, Ohio, is visitin' 'mongst his
                        kin here. He is ninety-five years ole, an' looks as straight
                        an' spry as a life-long Dimmycrat.
                    DOCTOR MOPPS
                    Doctor Mopps was born at Chagrin Falls, Ohio, in 1825. At the close of a
                        common school education he took up the study of surgery, hanging paper and
                        kalsomining through the summer months. His professional career began at
                        Toledo, Ohio, where he was employed as a meat cutter in a hotel. This was
                        the beginning his luxuriant whiskers, which continued to thrive throughout
                        his long, notable career. Drifting from Toledo, he became an adjuster for an
                        odd change restaurant at St. Louis, which position he held until the close
                        of the war. After selling electric belts for some years, he settled in Brown
                        County, Indiana, where he conducts a livery stable and a hearse.
                    
                    
                    There's allus a good news item lurkin' 'round a
                        barrel o' gasoline.
                    Miss Fawn Lippincut is savin' a scandal till her card club
                        meets.
                    Women seem t' be all right on bargains till it comes t'
                        pickin' out a husband.
                    Many a man tries t' figure that hain't one, two, three.
                
                
                
                    November
                    
                    OCTOBER 23 TO NOVEMBER 22
                    Sign of Scorpio (the Scorpion)
                    No overcoat, No money, November.
                    The Romans loaned out the threatening month of October on royalty to the red
                        planet Mars, assembling a number of exclusive features and holding a street
                        fair to this god of war on the nineteenth day, called Armilustrium Day.
                    Persons born during the latter half of October or the first half of November
                        draw unto themselves the vibratory influence of the sign of Scorpio,
                        indicating a moody, determined nature that doesn't overlook any
                        bets. The larger, the more daring the scheme with which these people connect
                        themselves, the  greater their per cent. They
                        often conceive and manage great charity entertainments and push them to a
                        successful finish without a cent of capital, being content to wait and take
                        four-fifths of the receipts for their services. It matters little what kind
                        of a scheme the Scorpio heirs launch, as long as they stand at the door and
                        handle the money. Theirs is the motto of Lucifer himself: "Better
                        be the whole thing in a town like Urbana, Ohio, than a resident of Newark,
                        New Jersey." As inconsistent as it may seem, it is not for lack of
                        refinement and gentle blood that the Scorpio born would rather stand and
                        watch the passing throng through the latticed door of a saloon than join in
                        the festivities.
                    Naturally, the women of this sign are a shade better than the men, but they
                        gall under restraint and possess an inborn aversion to anything savoring of
                        housework. The Texas Panhandle or the Ninth District of Pennsylvania or any
                        part of the Third climate are preferable localities for the Scorpio
                        heirs.
                    
                    
                    Th' promoter of a fake scheme is allus well dressed an'
                        affable.
                    After th' average Sunday excursionist finds a restaurant
                        that's cheap enough t' suit him, it's time
                        t' go home.
                    "Necessity is the richest inheritance," but by the time you
                        can afford to indulge in most of the pleasures of life you will be too old
                        to wear a plaid suit.
                    
                    Rockyfeller makes a good fugitive. He kin go ten days on one sody
                        cracker.
                    
                    Frost killed a performance o' East Lynne at Melodeon hall last
                        night.
                    
                    A druggist kin tell a cocaine fiend jist as soon as he comes up t'
                        th' counter an' asks for it.
                    YOUR DEN
                    If you contemplate building a home, make it very clear to your architect that
                        the furnace room must be equipped with all modern conveniences, making it as
                        attractive and inviting as possible. You will spend much of your time
                        there.
                    
                    Tipton Bud has had meat at his home twice this month. He says he
                        don't expect to save anything till times git worse.
                    Th' teutonic disturbances on th' Luxemburg frontier is just
                        another argyment in favor o' high license.
                    Th' ole fashioned woman that used t' roll up her sleeves
                        an' pitch in has been supplanted by her daughter who wears rubber
                        gloves.
                    I'd hate t' live in Indynoplus where th' funerals
                        trot.
                    Lots o' blamed lazy farmers chew an' smoke that never
                        "touch th' weed."
                    
                    I never seen a' "athletic girl" that thought she
                        wuz strong enough t' do indoor work.
                    UNCLE NILES TURNER
                    
                    Uncle Niles Turner was one hundred and one years old on the twenty-second day
                        of November. He was well acquainted with Lafayette and Aaron Burr, and says
                        he would be one hundred and fifty years old if he had abstained from the use
                        of tobacco.
                    November 28, 1907–Czar's life attempted.
                    
                    Miss Pet Plum will enter th' beauty contest bein' conducted
                        by th' Roundhead, Ohio, Bugle-Gazette. Miss Plum is a dark bay,
                        an' th' poet might say—
                    
                        Her head is like th' Autumn wind—
                        She has th' winsome peacock's eye.
                    
                    Her complexion is dark pink like th' true mother o' pearl,
                        changin' like a chameleon with her varyin' moods. She has
                        an alkali nose an' a dimple on her chin caused by fallin'
                        on a stump when a child. Her head is crowned by a mass o' superb
                        hair—now dark brown, now yaller, jist as she takes a notion. Miss
                        Plum is six feet two an' weighs eighty-five pounds an' has
                        a beautiful willowy carriage.
                    
                    
                    A good provider allus has a good appetite.
                    THE FIRELESS COOKER
                    To make a fireless cooker, first procure a large candy bucket and paint it
                        some cheerful color. Then purchase a three-quart granite vessel and an
                        armful of hay. Chop the hay in an ordinary wooden chopping bowl. Then place
                        the granite vessel in the center of the bucket and pack the chopped hay
                        tightly about it. Then put your beans on an ordinary gas range or stove and
                        allow them to come to a boil. Then pour them in the granite vessel, cover
                        the top with a felt pad and secure the lid. Then you can hang over the back
                        fence and gossip or go to a matinée. By five P. M. your supper will be
                        ready. After our prosperity begins to wane, boiling-meat may be prepared in
                        the same manner.
                    
                    
                    Ther's still a fair demand fer fifty-cent shirts in spite of our
                        marvelous prosperity.
                    It's purty hard fer an assessor t' git any
                        "pointers."
                    If buttermilk jist had a little inspiration in it what a great summer drink
                        it would make.
                    Pinky Kerr says Urbana is a town in Ohio where "Uncle Josh
                        Spruceby" played twice in one season.
                
                
                
                    December
                    
                    NOVEMBER 22 to DECEMBER 21
                    Sign of Sagittarius (the Archer)
                    The Romans dedicated the month of torchlight processions, mud slinging and
                        elections to the bounteous Diana, celebrating the fourteenth day in her
                        honor.
                    People enterin life during the latter half of November or the earlier half of
                        December take their inheritance from the sign Sagittarius, indicating that
                        they will be what is commonly known as "plain spoken"
                        people. The heirs of this sign will be equipped with indomitable energy and
                        a distressing propensity to spread out and do things. This unflagging and
                        persistent activity is generally incomprehensible to the innocent
                        bystanders, and they will gather in little knots in the corridors of the
                        court-house and predict the ultimate failure of such a pace.
                    
                    The Sagittarius heirs insist that wrongs must be righted as soon as they are
                        discovered; projects must be put through the same day they bob up. Thus they
                        are often intolerant to those who are less practical and executive than
                        themselves. Their impulsive efforts confuse others, and their inclination to
                        be the whole thing renders any concerted movement impossible. They inherit a
                        feverish physical unrest that craves the freedom of space and the
                        intoxication of motion, and they are next to insane on the question of
                        publicity and children. President Roosevelt was probably born under the sign
                        of Sagittarius or in the immediate vicinity.
                    The flower of Sagittarius is the goldenrod, which is liable to be found
                        growing along any dusty country road, its democratic nature caring little
                        for environment.
                    
                    DIRECTIONS FOR BUYING 'A' TOURING CAR
                    First mortgage your home. Then visit the various dealers and tell them that
                        you wish to purchase at the least possible figure a touring car combining
                        all the modern features—break-and-make ignition, four speed
                        selective transmissions, military fenders, thirty horse-power, eight
                        cylinders, perfect balance, sealed coil, high tension magneto, double
                        switch, detachable tonneau and full set of Gabriel horns. After the purchase
                        is made, select some good, reliable, sober fellow to look after your
                        business affairs.
                    When you get out of the hospital you can trade the machine in on a cigar
                        stand or news depot, paying the balance at the rate of two or three dollars
                        per week until you get back on a paying basis.
                    A second mortgage on your home will pay the doctor's bill.
                    Even a ticket taker at a ball park can be a gentleman.
                    
                    Prof. Alex Tansey, our school teacher, wuz discussin' th'
                        weighin' o' th' human soul. He says it reminds
                        him of a' episode in his old home town, Angoly, when a party
                        o' local scientists tried t' weigh a bung-hole by first
                        weighin' th' barrel.
                    Young Lafe Bud says he allus hates t' git his hair cut cause it
                        makes his hat look so old.
                    Mr. Dallas Crane, whose essay, "We Have Left th' Bay
                        an' th' Ocean Lies Before Us," made such a
                        wonderful impression at the commencement last spring, has a fine position
                        drivin' a dressed poultry wagon at Cleveland, Ohio.
                    
                    PSYCHIC PHENOMENA
                    Dream lore is placed under the head of psychic phenomena. The student of
                        present-day psychology and other scientific people are not inclined to give
                        much thought to the varied influences of dreams, yet many instances are
                        shown of prophetic warnings which seem almost incredible.
                    Mrs. Sam Rudder, of 11117 South Canal street, Zanesfield, Ohio, dreamed that
                        her husband, who is a Big Four passenger engineer, had arrived safely from
                        his run and stood talking to friends in the roundhouse. She arose and
                        frantically grabbed the telephone. Ordering an automobile, she hurried to
                        the railroad yards, where she found her husband safe and sound.
                    Prof. Hiram Smith, dean of a college at Bloom Center, Ohio, dreamed that he
                        had been attacked by a cat. He called to his wife, who ran to the kitchen to
                        get his revolver, and there discovered the coffee-pot filled with
                        kittens.
                    In a fearful dream two weeks ago, Miss Cyril Jones, whose grandfather is 117
                        years old, was foretold that he could not live much longer. To-day he is
                        confined to his room.—Springfield, Ill., Despatch.
                    Mrs. Winifred Conklin, a very wealthy Indianapolis widow, was awakened in her
                        richly furnished flat on October 10, 1906, in a terribly nervous condition.
                        She had dreamed that it was daylight, and that the janitor was scrubbing the
                        marble steps. She rushed madly  to the window,
                        and the sun was shining brightly, but the janitor had not shown up.
                    
                    
                    "A diamond seals th' bargain an' a plain ring ties
                        th' knot"—an' that's jist
                        th' beginnin' o' th' holdup.
                    To dream of rhubarb denotes that you are of a jovial nature and will stand
                        for most anything. To dream of eating it means that you are failing
                        mentally.
                    December 22—Winter begins at 7 P. M. to-day.
                    December, 1777—Washington goes into winter quarters at Valley Forge
                        and organizes the first anvil chorus.
                    December 25, 1907—Czar's life attempted.
                    
                    A pass on th' scenic railway is th' best an editor kin do
                        these days.
                    
                    Pinky Kerr, who is travelin' with a repertory company, writes
                        t' his aunt here that a contortionist an' a horizontal bar
                        team joined th' troupe at Bucyrus, Ohio, an' now they have
                        one o' th' strongest dramatic companies on th'
                        road.
                    
                    When you once begin t' age a dyed mustache an' a toupee
                        won't save you.
                    Th' feller that would rather smoke a pipe any time than a se-gar
                        allus takes a fifteen-cent drink when somebody sets 'em up.
                    To dream of seeing turkeys with plug hats on playing lawn tennis is a sign
                        you will have to cut your booze out.
                    December 30—The Legless Pencil Venders of America meet in convention
                        at Chillicothe, Ohio.
                
            
        
    
