
     ----CITATION---- 
        Ade, George, 1866-1944. Breaking Into Society: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2321
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    BREAKING INTO SOCIETY
                
                 By
                    GEORGE ADE AUTHOR OF "PEOPLE
                    YOU KNOW" "THE SULTAN OF SULU" ETC.
                
                    NEW YORK AND LONDON
                    HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS
                    MCMIV
                
            
            
            
                Copyright, 1902, 1903, by ROBERT HOWARD RUSSELL.
                
                Copyright, 1904, by HARPER & BROTHERS.
                
                
                    All rights reserved.
                
                Published March, 1904.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    The Sorrows of the Unemployed and the Danger of Changing from Bill to Harold
                            1
                    Sorrowful Bill and the Sour Grapes and Sympathetic Sep 10
                    What the College Incubator Did for One Modest Lambkin 21
                    The Subordinate Who Saw a Great Light 31
                    Rugged Hiram and Hiram's Giddy Wife 34
                    The Lecture Tickets That Were Bought but Never Used 44
                    The Escape of Arthur and the Salvation of Herbert 54
                    
                    The Up-to-Date Atlas Who Carried the World on His Shoulders 64
                    Hazel's Two Husbands and What Became of Them 74
                    The Galley Slave Who Was Just Ahmlt To but Never Dill 84
                    The Willing Collegian Who Was Hunting for a Foothold 93
                    The Town Lover; or, How the Lady-Killer Blew Up in the Stretch 104
                    The Attempt to Spruce Up the Family and Give It a Standing 114
                    The Unhappy Financiar and the Discontented Rube 123
                    The Thoughtful Wife Who Tried to Give Henry a Restful Vacation 135
                    The Coming-Out Girl and a Few of Her Keen Guesses 146
                    
                    The Soft Thing, and Some of the Things That Were Done to Him 156
                    The Cub Lover, the Superior Dad, and the Lady Who Told the Truth 166
                    The Honest. Effort to Go the Distance and Then the Melancholy Fluke 176
                    The Unsympathetic Parent Who Turned Down Three Different Varieties 186
                    The Ninety-Pound Knight-Errant and His Lady Fair 193
                    The Fearsome Feud Between the First Families 197
                
            
        
        
            
            Breaking Into Society
            
                The Sorrows of the Unemployed and the Danger of Changing from Bill to Harold.
                IN a certain Western Town that started out with the Expectation of hurting Chicago, there
                    was an Early Settler who tried to build a Fence around the Corporation. He cabbaged all the Corner
                    Lots' and nailed the Main Street Frontage and then held on like a Summer Cold.
                He was a grisly old Badger who wore one Suit the Year round, with a Pair of box-toed
                    Boots, a woollen Hat, and a Moss-Agate Collar-Button. While he was doing Business at Assessor and
                    bilking the Grangers for Kail-way franchises, he was regarded as a Wolf.
                After he changed his address to Over There, the Heirs erected something that looked like
                    the Bunker Hill Monument, and then they had him done in Oil by a Celebrated Artist. The Artist fixed
                    his Hair for Him and gave him a neat Stand-Up Collar such as no one could have put on to the Old Man
                    with  a Block and Tackle. They named a School after him,
                    and every one in Town who was related to him could butt into Sussiety without a Ticket.
                The Large End of all the Scads mentioned in the last Will and Testament went to a Son
                    named William H. Jimpson. On the way hack from the Cemetery he took out a Pencil and figured to see
                    what he was worth, and then he changed his Name to W. Harold Jimpson.
                Harold had been compelled to fly fairly close to the Ground while the Governor was on
                    Deck, but when there was no one to keep Tab on him he began to find $100 Bills in his Clothes when
                    he was looking for a Card, and it seemed to Vex him a good deal.
                A few Years before W. Harold became surrounded by Currency he had taken a Wife, without
                    very much of a Struggle. Leonora was of a very Nice Family, that owed something on the House and
                    kept a Girl part of (hi-Time. After she began to have a Governess for Stuyveaant Jimpson and an
                    Imported 
                    
                        
                            Sussiety.
                        
                    
                     Nurse for the little Evelyn Jimpson her Memory seemed to
                    blur in Spots and she couldn't have done up the Dishes to save her life.
                When she was out in her Brougham it kept her busy not seeing her Childhood Friends who
                    used to go to Kissing Parties and Taffy Pulls with her. That was why she wanted to Travel. She
                    fairly ached to get to Paris, where True Social Worth is recognized right on the Jump.
                Her Husband, also, was getting sore on his Birthplace. His Acquaintances would not stand
                    for the W. Harold Gag. They called him "Bill."
                Then, on top of it all, the two Cases of Offspring needed the French Language. Leonora
                    was already feeding their Legs to the Mosquitoes because some one had told her that the real
                    Delicatessen always left the Kids partly uncovered, $aG la Parisienne.
                W. Harold closed out all his interests, and when he got through he had his Bank-Roll in
                    one neat Stack of Bonds. All he had to do 
                    
                        
                            Pool Was a Bore.
                        
                    
                     for the remainder of his Natural was to dip the Coupons
                    every Six Months. Between times he could enjoy himself. It looked Soft.
                W. Harold and Bunch, including a Retinue of Private Secretaries, Hair-Dressers, and
                    Maids, as well as a Keeper, sometimes known as a Valet, set out for Yurrup. As Harold sized up the
                    Caravansary he swelled with Satisfaction and said, "Little would any one Suspect that we
                    have been out of the Hazel Brush less than 8 Months."
                Now that he was beyond the Range of the unlettered Rube, he began to do a little
                    Landscape Gardening on the Frontispiece, laying out a very neat Set of Depews. He wore Gloves even
                    it Night, and worked for Hours trying to get a side-hold on the Piccadilly Accent.
                The joyful Jimpsons cut a 14-foot Gash right through the centre of the Continent. They
                    saw everything mentioned in the Red Book, and finally struck Paris, with a loud, metallic Sound.
                    There they settled down to remain forever, in the Shade of the sheltering 
                    
                        
                            She Gave Dog Parties.
                        
                    
                     Absinthe Frappe, with tile Grisettes singing in the Trees.
                But W. Harold had inherited a few rest-less Microbes from the parental Hustler. After he
                    had seen all the Pictures from every Angle and had worn out. two or three Chairs sitting around
                    Cafes, he began to long for the Nasal Twang and something to do. The whole Kit and Tribe moved back
                    to the States.
                He learned that the Proper Caper for one who is out of Work and all clogged up with Funds
                    is to build a Cottage overlooking the Sea and work up Features for the Sunday Papers. Accordingly he
                    threw up a Shack with Onyx Foundations and Florida Water piped into every Room. It faced four
                    different Ways. The Excursionists rode in from as far away as Swanzcy to look at it and wait for the
                    Real Things to come out and pile into the Blue Assassin and go out hunting Baby Carriages.
                After the keen Pleasure of being pointed out had somewhat dulled and the Homicide  Wagon had palled on them and Polo was a Hore and Ping-Pong
                    a Misdemeanor and Golf a Crime, poor Harold and Leonora found themselves up against it, strong and
                    plenty.
                A Prince, but even these Gaycties petered out for a Prince, but even these Gayeties
                    petered out after a while. Sometimes Leonora was afraid (hat in order to kill Time she would either
                    have to mingle with her Children or else take to Reading, hut she hated to cause Talk.
                She and W. Harold found themselves in the great Army of the Unemployed. And yet all the
                    Factories were running double Shifts and Harvest Hands getting $3 a day.
                At last they became so Desperate and Lonely that they fell in love with each other out of
                    yearning Sympathy, and this gave rise to so much Scandal that they had to go hack to the Other Side
                    to live it. down.
                
                    MORAL: Beware of Government Bonds.
            
            
            
                Sorrowful Bill and the Sour Grapes and Sympathetic Sep.
                ONCE there was a long-headed Schemer who picked up his Assets and moved East. By breaking
                    into every Good Thing that came along and nailing each Opportunity to get a stand-in with the
                    Gentlemen who own the Universe, ho was enabled to stack up something like a Million. It looked big
                    to his Relations who lived out West, but in New York he was a cheap Piker. His Steam Yacht, had only
                    one Funnel and there were only seven Bath-Rooms in his House. In fact, he was a good deal of a Skate
                    any way yon looked at him.
                The Second-Rater had a Cousin named Sep, who lived in one of our Middle States. In his
                    own Bailiwick this Sep was a very gallus Proposition. He owned a General Store and a Stock Farm and
                    had Rubber Tires on his liuggy and wore Gloves when driving.
                After the Corn had been laid by and the Oats thrashed, Sep had a little time for
                    Romancing around over the Country. He 
                    
                        
                            A Slick Man.
                        
                    
                     bought a paper-muslin Duster, had a Lunch
                    ">put up, and bought an Excursion Ticket to Morgansville.
                The struggling Millionaire said he was glad to see Sep. He did not shout it through a
                    Megaphone or hang out any Bulletins. He simply said that lie was glad to see Sep, anil he should
                    have been, for Soppy had slept, two nights in (he Day Coach and had just bought a sack of a Bananas.
                "Bill, it seems to me that you look kind of peaked," said Sep, as he
                    sank into a Leather Chair and tackled Banana No. 8.
                "Ah, yes, I have been under a great Strain," replied the unhappy Soul.
                    "You sec, just when we got that South-African Business all straightened out and were ready
                    for the Coronation, then came the Operation, and it upset, us dreadfully."
                "What are you talking about?" asked Sep.
                "The Anglo-Saxon Alliance," replied Cousin Bill. "We are now
                    One People. They don't know it, hut we are."
                "The Alliance cuts very few Lemons out 
                    
                        
                            Sep.
                        
                    
                     around Peavey's Junction," replied Sep.
                    "Our Idee of the-Alliance is to stay Friendly with them as long us they buy our Beef Cattle
                    and Grain."
                "Not at all," said Bill. "Our present Policy is to skin them
                    until they are overcome with Admiration and invite us to Dinner. You may not know it, Sep, but New
                    York is the Home of the expensive Meal-Ticket. For instance. Why have I whip-sawed the Market all
                    these years and boned like a Turk and worn my nerves to a blithering Frazzle in this unending
                    Wrassle for the Almighty? Is it because I wish to endow a Presbyterian College or establish
                    Ping-Pong Parlors for plain Working Girls? Not. on your Breakfast Food! Right across the Street from
                    us there resides a large Lady who has original Knickerbocker Corpuscles moving up and down in her
                    System. She has Blue Blood, and lots of it. We are slathering our Cur-two in the Hope that some Day
                    she will ask us to come over and eat on her. When that 
                    gladsome Moment arrives, it's a 50 to 1 Shot that we'll all die of Joy."
                "What seems to be your Handicap?" asked Sep. "You were invited
                    to all the Parties when you lived at Peavey's Junction."
                "Any one who comes in from the Cockle-Burr District with a Bundle is known as a
                    Newvo Reash," replied Bill. "I don't know what it menus, never having
                    studied the Dead Languages, hut it's about the same as a Slob. In other words, if you make
                    your own Money you're an Awful Thing, but if any one slips it to you and you've
                    never done anything with it except count it and sprinkle a little Florida Water on it, then
                    you're a Nice Young Fellow. Now you see what I'm up against. I'm guilty
                    of Work, and every one is on to me. The best I can hope for is that some of my Grandchildren will
                    Doctor up my Record and finally draw the Meal-Ticket."
                "What do you care?" asked Sep. "I wouldn't wear out a
                    whole kit of Tools trying to break into a Refrigerator."
                "Ah, Septimus, you do not understand,"  said the disconsolate Cousin. "It is the Boy who starts in Life on a
                    Hay-Rack and opens his first Cold Bottle at the age of 35, who wants to take his whole Tribe into
                    the Camp of the $eAlite and swap Visiting-Cards with the Vans. Social Recognition has a high Rating
                    because there arc only a few Shares on the Market, and not because it pays Dividends."
                "It seems to me that a Slick Man who can beat almost any kind of a Money Came
                    ought to learn in time how to handle a Combine that's in the hands of a few Elderly
                    Ladies," said Sep.
                "I'm afraid that a Man with a tall-grass Training will make Breaks all
                    his Life," replied Bill. "He's always doing what he wants to do, instead
                    of playing Follow your Leader. I started to play Golf this year, not knowing that it was a Dead Card
                    with the 400. As for riding a Wheel, they take a Shot at any one who does that. The Panama Hat is
                    scratched because it is worn by the Common Sort who have to engage in Thought during 
                    
                        
                            She Has Blue.
                        
                    
                     the Heated Season. Rule No. 1 of the Smart Set is to chop
                    any Diversion that has caught on with the Working Classes. As soon as $3 will pay for a Motor Car
                    and One Year's Sub scription, all the real Blue Fish will give their Machines to the
                    Servants and fall to the Air-Ship. Any one with an old-fashioned Han kering for Baseball and Family
                    Rigs and Drug-Store Sody Water and all such Prairie Luxuries has about one Chance in a Million. Even
                    if my Plebe Tastes didn't queer me, I suppose I would be disqualified under the Pedigree
                    Clause. I have been trying to classify our Ancestral Tree, and I find that it is a Shell-Bark
                    Hickory that has been struck by Lightning several times. It appears that one morning about 200 years
                    ago a Ship was ready to set Sail for the New World. A large number of Foreigners who figured that
                    they couldn't be any worse off, even among the Indians, had booked Passage. One of our
                    Ancestors had made arrangements to sail on that Boat. The Night before the Departure he dropped into
                    the Tavern to say
                
                Good-Bye. He became all diked up and over-slept himself. When he arrived at the Dock he
                    saw the Ship, loaded down with First Families, pulling out of the Harbor. That one Jag is what put
                    our whole Family to the Bad. I figure that if he had not missed that Boat, I would be sitting under
                    an Awning at Newport at this very Minute, with some one fanning me. The grand Mistake our Folks made
                    was to come in with the Bunch. Any one living anywhere on the Other Side at present is strictly in
                    it, and those who came over in time to qualify for the Colonial Societies are now regarded as It by
                    their distant Relations, but those who have come in during the last Century are simply
                    unplaced."
                "I can't see it in that Light at all," said Sep. "I
                    have been reading Ridpath's His tory of the United States, and it says we are all Free and
                    Equal "
                "I don't believe it circulates in Our Set." said Bill.
                    "It might, if some one in London would get out a De Luxe Edition."
                "Bill," said Sep, "I think you've got the  whole Works down pat. It's too bad that you
                    can't guess the Combination."
                
                    MORAL: The Betwixt and Between Families know what genuine Grief
                is.
            
            
            
                What the College Incubator Did for One Modest Lambkin.
                ONE Autumn Afternoon a gray-haired Agriculturist took his youngest Olive Branch, by the
                    Hand and led him away to a Varsity. Wilbur was 18 and un Onion. He had outgrown his last
                    year's Tunic, and his Smalls were hardly on speaking terms with his Uppers. He had large,
                    warty Hands, which floated idly at his sides, and his Wrists resembled extra Sets of Knuckles. When
                    he walked, his Legs gave way at the Hinge and he Interfered. On his Head was a little Wideawake with
                    a Buckle at the Side. Mother had bobbed his Hair and rubbed in a little Goose-Grease to make it
                    shine. The Collar that he wore was size 13, and called the Rollo Shape. It rose to a Height of a
                    half-inch above his Neck-Band. For a Cravat he had a Piece of watered Silk Ribbon with Butterflies
                    on it.
                Wilbur had his Money tied up in a Hand kerchief, and he carried a Paper Telescope loaded
                    down with one Complete Change and  a Catalogue of the
                    Institution showing that the Necessary Expenses were not more than $3.40 per Week.
                As the Train pulled away from Pewee Junction Wilbur began to Leak. The Salt Tears
                    trickled down through the Archipelago of Freckles. He wanted to Crawfish, but Paw bought him a Box
                    of Crackerjack and told him that if he got an Education and improved his Opportunities some day he
                    might be County Superintendent of Schools and get his $900 a Year just like finding it. So Wilbur
                    spunked up and said he would try to stick it out. He got out the Catalogue and read all of the
                    copper-riveted Rules for the Moral Guidance of Students.
                The Curriculum had him scared. He saw that in the next four Years he would have to soak
                    up practically all the Knowledge on the Market. But he was cheered to think that if he persevered
                    and got through he would be entitled to wear an Alpaca Coat and a Lawn
                Tie and teach in the High-School, so he took Courage and began to notice the Scenery.
                
                
                    
                        Carried a Paper Telescope.
                    
                
                
                Wilbur was planted in a Boarding-House guaranteed to provide Wholesome Food and a Home
                    Influence. Father went back after making a final Discourse on the importance of learning most
                    everything in all of the Books.
                Nine Months later they were down at the Depot to meet Wilbur. He had written several
                    times, saying that he could not find time to come Home, as he was in pursuit of Knowledge every
                    Minute of the Day, and if he left the Track, Knowledge might gain several Laps on him. It looked
                    reasonable, too, for the future Superintendent of Schools had spent $400 for Books, $200 for
                    Scientific Appa ratus, and something like $60 for Chemicals to be used in the Laboratory.
                When the Train suddenly checked itself, to avoid running past the Town. there came out of
                    the Parlor Car something that looked like Fitz, on account of the Padding in the Shoulders. Just
                    above one Ear he wore a dinky Cap about the size of a Postage Stamp. The Coat reached almost to the
                    Hips and was but 
                    
                        
                            Looked Like Fitz.
                        
                    
                     toned below. The Trousers had enough material for a suit.
                    They were reefed to show feverish Socks of a zigzag Pattern. The Shoes were very Bull-Doggy, and
                    each had a wide Terrace running around it. Father held on to a Truck for Support. Never before had
                    he seen a genuine case of the inflammatory Rah-Rahs.
                Wilbur was smoking a dizzy little Pipe from which the Smoke curled upward, losing itself
                    in a copious Forelock that moved gently in the Breeze. Instead of a Collar, Wilbur was wearing a
                    Turkish Towel. He had the Harvard Walk down pat. With both Hands in his Pockets, the one who had
                    been pursuing Knowledge teetered towards the Author of his Being ami said, " How are you,
                    Governor?"
                Father was always a Lightning Calculator, and as he stood there trying to grasp and
                    comprechend and mentally close in, as it were, on the Burlap Suit and the Coon Shirt and the sassy
                    Pipe, something told him that Wil bur would have to Switch if he expected to be County
                    Superintendent of Schools.
                
                
                    
                        A Mutt.
                    
                
                
                "Here are my Checks," said Wilbur, handing over the Brasses.
                    "Have my Trunks, my Golf Clubs, my portable Punclling-Bag, the Suit-Case and Hat-Boxes sent
                    up to the-House right away. Then drive me Home by the Outside Road, because I don't want to
                    meet all these Yaps. They annoy me."
                "You'd better git out of that Rig mighty qnick if yon don't
                    want to be Joshed," said his Parent. "Folks around here won't stand for
                    any such fool Regalia, and if you walk like a frozen-toed Hen you'll get some Hot Shots or
                    I miss my Calkilations."
                "Say, Popsy, I've been eating Raw Meat and drinking Blood at the
                    Training-Table, and I'm on Edge," said Wilbur, expanding his Chest until it bulged
                    out like a Thornton Squash. "If any of these local Georgie Glues try to shoot their Pink
                    Conversation at me I'll toss them up into the Trees and let them hang there. I'm
                    the Gazabe that Puts the Shot. Any one who can trim a Policeman and chuck a Hackman right back into
                    his own Hack and drive off with him doesn't  ask
                    for any sweeter Tapioca than one of these Gaffer Greens. The Ploughboy who is muscle-bound and full
                    of Pastry will have a Proud Chance any time that he struts across my Pathway. In my Trunks I have
                    eight suits a little warmer than this one and 47pairs of passionate Hose. I'm out here to
                    give the Cornfields a Touch of High Life. It's about time that your Chaws had a Glimpse of
                    the Great Outside World. Any one who gets Fussy about the Color-Combinations that I spring from Day
                    to Day will be chopped up and served for Lunch. To begin with, I'm going to teach you and
                    Mother to play Golf. If these Mutts come and lean over the Fence and start to get off their
                    Colored-Weekly Jokes we'll fan the Hill-side with them."
                "What do they teach up at your Schoolbesides Murder?" inquired Father.
                    "I thought, you wanted to be County Superin tendent of Schools."
                "I've outgrown all those two-by-four Ambitions," was the
                    Reply. "I'm going to  be on the Eleven
                    nexi Fall. What more could you ask?"
                That very week Wilbur organized a Ball Team that walloped Hickory Crick, Sand Ridge, and
                    Sozzinsville. He had the whole Township with him. Every Cub at Pewee Junction began to wear a
                    Turkish Towel for a Collar and practise the Harvard Walk.
                
                    MORAL: A Boy never blossoms into his full Possibilities until he
                    strikes an Atmosphere of Culture.
            
            
            
                The Subordinate Who Saw a Great Light.
                ONCE there was an Employe who was getting the Nnb End of the Deal. He kicked on the long
                    Hours and the small Salary, and helped to organize a Clerks' Protective Association. HP was
                    for the Toiler as against the Main Squeeze.
                In order to keep him simmered down, the Owners gave him an Interest. After that he began
                    to perspire when he looked at the Pay-Roll, and it did seem to him that a lot of big, lazy Lummixes
                    were standing around the Shop doing the Soldier Act. He learned to snap his Fingers every time the
                    Office Boy giggled. As for the faithful old Book-week's Vacation in the Summer, the best he
                    got was a little Talk about Contentment being a Jewel.
                The Associate Partner played Simon Le-gree, all except the make-up. The saddest whole
                    Bunch knocked off at 6 o'clock in the Evening. It seemed a Shame to call 10 Hours  a Full Day. As for the Saturday Half-Holi day Movement,
                    that was little bettor than Highway Robbery. Those who formerly slaved alongside of him in the
                    Galleys hail to address him as Mister, and he had them numbered the same as Convicts.
                One Day an Underling ventured to remind the Slave-Driver that once he had been the
                "Right you are," said the Boss. "But when I plugged for the
                    lowly Wage-Earner I never had been in the Directors' Office to see that beautiful Tableau
                    entitled ' Virtue cop ping out the Annual Dividend.' I don't you, so I
                    will merely remark that all those who get on our side of the Fence are enabled to catch a new Angle
                    on this Salary Question."
                
                    MORAL: For Educational Purposes, every Employs should be taken into
                    the Firm.
                
                
                    
                        Simon Legree.
                    
                
            
            
            
                Rugged Hiram and Hiram's Giddy wife.
                ONCE there was a staid Business Man who was hooked up with a hoop-laSpender. It was often
                    remarked that Hiram's Wife seemed to take it for granted that Treasury Notes grew on Trees.
                    She wore those long. lozenge-shaped Rings that blind the Spectator, and she had a different Sunburst
                    for every Day in the Week and a Diamond Tarara that made the other Women sizzle with Envy. She wore
                    a trailing Work Gown that kept coming into the Room long after she had entered.
                Now and then she would give a. Party at which $80 worth of Spinach would be hung on the
                    Chandeliers. The highest-priced Caterer in Town would deal out the sparkling Conversation Water as
                    if Brut and Buttermilk cost about the same.
                She was, in very Sooth, among the highest of the Rollers, but Hiram stood for the Bills
                    with nary a Whimper. He was proud to be the Husband of the Lady Ki-Bosh of the Local Knickerbockers.
                
                
                    
                        A Trailing Worth, Gown.
                    
                
                
                He never into the Ring himself for Fear that he might Interfere or throw a Shoe, but he
                    sat back in Section A and rooted for the Missus. Every time she was awarded a Blue Ribbon for
                    another Social Triumph, he was pleased beyond Compare.
                Hiram was a Child of Nature, and he never had been able to outgrow his Birthright. Even
                    when be was attired in his $135 Evening Clothes, one could tell by looking at him that he knew how
                    to milk a Cow. He had more Hands and Feet than he could dispose of at one Time.
                Hiram could not comb his Hair so that, it would stay, and although he had been in the
                    City for 30 years he never contrived to get the Hang of a tie-it-yourself Bow Tie, so he used the
                    kind that fastens behind with a little Buckle. It was even said that Hiram was unable to put the
                    Studs in his Shirt without getting Finger-Marks on the Bosom. Hiram's Wife or daughter
                    Jessie always had to go to his Room and look over and turn him around a couple of times before they
                    dared to 
                    
                        
                            In His Evening Clothes.
                        
                    
                     lead him out where the company could see him.
                When there was a Theatre-Party, Hiram always sat, hack between the Curtains so as to
                    avoid spoiling the Picture, and at the same time keep the Draught away from the other People. At a
                    Dinner-Party he was usually put in between two gabby Girls who had tacit Instructions to keep him
                    elbowed into the Background.
                And yet, withal, Hiram was a Man of Sterling Worth and many admirable Qualities. He was
                    the Family Gibraltar, while his Wife and Jessie were supposed to be more Floral Ornaments. Best of
                    all, Hiram was known to be a Star at getting the Coin. The Fact that the Family put up such a tall
                    Front in the Society Column helped the Public to believe that Hiram was as good as Old Wheat he was
                    supposed to be long on Business Integrity. It was argued that one so Yappy would have to be
                    correspondingly Honest.
                Hiram was so Severe and Puritanical and  had so
                    much clinging Agricultural Simplicity that no one dreamed the Truth about him. In Reality, his
                    Arteries were surcharged with Sporting Blood. When no one suspected it, he liked to put on a Mask
                    and sneak out and hold up the Stock Market. That is what he did until one sad Day in May the Stock
                    Market up and Did him. He got it right where the Hired Girl wears the Ruching.
                Hiram came home as pale as a Ghost and broke the News that he was in the Hole. He
                    hesitated to tell the Wife, for she was a Fragile Being, unaccustomed to the rude Buffets of the
                    Strenuous Life, and he feared that such a cruel Blow might crush her. But he finally divulged the
                    frightful Truth and then flopped to the Settee and began to Bluff about killing himself, so that she
                    could get the Insurance Money. She told him to Behave, and then she went out and made a Cup of
                    Strong Tea for him.
                Hiram had been an Imposing Figure so long as he had his Financial Underpinning, but when
                    they yanked away his Supports he  did a horrible Collapse.
                    When he got the Swing in the Plexus and toppled over he proved to he a sorry Quitter. He lay on his
                    Back and claimed a' Foul, while his Wife and Wreckage.
                They gave up the Servants and soaked the Jewels and moved into a smaller House. It was a
                    rapid Come-Down, but even while they look Pleasant and be Game. Although their Female Friends came
                    around to express Sympathy and stiek Pins in them, they forced the Angelic Smile and did not act a
                    bit like Heavy Losers.
                They had to take in Roomers and give Les-from the Poor-House, and yet with all their
                    Skimping and Economizing they never pretended to know Poverty.
                When a Man loses his Money he goes to his Bedroom to drink himself into a Trance. A Woman
                    lights the House from Cellar to Garret and sends out Invitations for a Party.
                
                
                    
                        Had to Take in Roomers.
                    
                
                
                On an Income of about $3 a Week, Hiram's Wife and Daughter managed to keep up
                    Appearances and occasionally have some of their Old Friends to Dinner. Hiram never understood how
                    they managed it. When he looked at his empty Bank-Book and then out at the Cold World' he
                    was for giving up and disappearing beneath the Waves. His Wife braced him and him to think of
                    Jessie. Hiram wept and said there was no Hope for the Child of a Pauper. Not withstanding which,
                    Hiram's Wife kept the Family right along in Catch. It is true that she starved the
                    Household for six months in order to give the Young Couple a daisy Send-Off.
                And all this time Hiram, the astute Busi Foot like a Town Simpleton at a Kissing-Bee.
                Hiram had learned how to do Things with Money, but he had to turn to his frivolous Wifey
                    to find out how to Manage it when there was no Money.
                In other words. Hiram discovered that Cash  had
                    been the Essence of his Existence while it had been the-more-accidental Adjunct to his
                    Wife's Social Campaigns.
                Without a big Reserve he was a Smoke. She, minus her Check-Book, rose to greater heights
                    of Diplomacy. In time she succeeded in resuscitating-her groggy Husband and putting him hack on the
                    Track, but he had lost his Ginger. He was stoop-shouldered and gray as a Bat.
                She turned up at the Club Meetings just as chipper as of Yore, only she came by Trolley
                    instead of Coup$eA.
                
                    MORAL: It is the upheaval of Tough Luck that causes a Transfer of the
                    Family Sceptre.
            
            
            
                The Lecture Tickets That Were Bought but Never Used
                ONCE there was a Man living in a Big Town and he had a Cousin whom he never had seen.
                    Some people are very lucky as to their Relatives.
                The Man who lived in the Wicked Metrop-olis was named Sanford and the Cousin who lived
                    out in the Woods was known as Lafe, although his real Name was Lafayette.
                Every Christmas Sanford would send Lafe some kind of a stingy Gift, and then Lafe would
                    retaliate by shipping in a fat Turkey for Thanksgiving. There was a formal Exchange of Letters about
                    twice per Year.
                Sanford was a good deal Upset one day to receive Word that Cousin Lafayette was coming to
                    spend a Week. Whatever Joy he felt he did not show at all.
                The visiting Cousin is liable to be a Fierce Proposition under the most favorable
                    Conditions, but it is more than Hard Lurk to be saddled with one who is Total Stranger Sanford was
                    hoping that the Train would  run off the Track, hut he
                    wrote Cousin Lafe to be sure and come right to the House.
                Sanford saw a very pink Week ahead of him. He was not very Strong for the Lafe around and
                    show him the Sky-Scrapers, the Animals in the Park, the Eden Musee, and the big Engine in the
                    Power-House. He had observed that the Excursionist is always keen to sec a lot of Sights that are a
                    Scaled Book to the Man who lives right, in the City.
                Sanford tried to get a line on Cousin Lafe so as to frame up the right kind of a
                    Programme. He could tell by the Picture in the Family Album that Lafe was a Pure Character and
                    somewhat of a Rube. He wore a White Tie and had his Hair gummed down on his Forehead. He looked as
                    if he would like to be a Preacher hut could not quite make it. His open Countenance had that sweet
                    and trusting Expression of the Hubbard Squash who is willing to give two Tens for a Five.
                
                So far as Sanford could learn, Cousin Lafe was a kind of moral Sign-Board and snow white
                    Object-Lesson in the Jay Town which claimed him as its own. He was a Cemetery Trustee and Chairman
                    of the Committee to solicit Funds for a new Y. M. C. A. Building. Also he had been prominent in the
                    Sunday-Closing Movement and the Main Kazoo in the Citizens' Reform League.
                Accordingly, Sanford had all the Drinkables removed from the Sideboard, and he warned the
                    Children not to I augh while Cousin Lafe was saying Grace at the Table. Then be went out and bought
                    some Tickets for a Lecture, and got a written Permit to go through the Car-Shops.
                He went to the Station to meet the rural Lamb and protect him against the Cabmen. He saw
                    a Hot Sport with a new Suit of Clothes and a Red Tie come through the Gate, but be did not spot
                    anything that resembled a Cemetery Trustee. While he was still waiting, the Hot Sport came up and
                    walloped him on the Back and introduced himself.
                
                
                    
                        In the Family Album.
                    
                
                
                "What do you think?" asked the President, of the Yapville
                    Citizens' Reform League. " I got into a Poker Game with two of them Ikey Drummers
                    on the Train and trimmed them for 87 Samoleons. If the Train had been a half-hour late I'd
                    have got their Sample-Cases. I've got a Roll here that would choke a Horse, and I have a
                    Feeling that I am about to Buy. We drank up everything in the Dining-Car except the Catsup before we
                    got to Springfield, and I wouldn't take $7 for my Thirst. By the way, I want to tell you
                    that I've left my Pajamas at Home, and you might as well move the Bed out of my Room,
                    because I won't need it. If you have any Word to send to your Folks before we cut loose,
                    step into the Box and telephone while you're still able to talk."
                "What do you wish to sec first of all, the Parks or the Power-House?"
                    asked Sanford.
                "If it's all the same to you," said the Cemetery Trustee,
                    "I should like to begin my Vacation by putting a tall Crimp in the 
                    
                        
                            Introduced Himself.
                        
                    
                     Guy that spins the little Ivory Ball. Then you can send
                    home for your Low-Neck and we will have a little Dinner-Party. I have engaged the Louis XIV. Room up
                    at the Hotel. I have in my Suit-Case no less than 17 Letters of Introduction to well-known Society
                    Ladies who are always Hungry. This Afternoon I expect to have all the Messenger Boys in Town busy.
                    When we sit. down this Evening there will be $8 worth of Violets and four Cocktails at every Pluto.
                    I'll show these Tessies that I'm no Piker. After the Eats we are going over and
                    sit in all of the Boxes at that Rough-House Show that I've been reading about. After that
                    we are going to a nice, quiet all-night Restaurant, where they have the Hungarian Orchestra, and any
                    one that passes away before 6 A.M. will ho culled a Quitter."
                "Are yon Cousin Lafe or a Ringer?" asked Sanford.
                "I am the Cemetery Trustee all right, all right," was the reply!
                    "A Cemetery Trustee breaks over only about once ill Three 
                    
                        
                            Had Him Down and Out.
                        
                    
                     Years, but when he does hit the Track he makes a Mile in
                    2.00 look like a Funeral Procession. For many Months I have been drinking Milk and posing us an
                    Example for the Young. I live in one of those Towns where every living Soul knows how much I pay for
                    my Clothes and how many Lumps of Sugar I put in my Coffee. If I took a Drink out there everybody
                    would know about it in twenty Minutes. If I smoked a Cigarette I would be hanged in Effigy. I might
                    as well go out and kill an Aged Woman with a Hatchet as mix up in any Poker Games. So I do the
                    Straight and Narrow. But now I'm up here among the Electric Lights with Sleep, and I have
                    Money in every Pocket. I'm up here to play a short Engagement as the Village
                    Indian" If you care to follow me, I think I can put you in right and probably show you a
                    good many Places that you never saw before, even if you do live right in Town."
                Sanford tried to be Game, but in two Days 
                    Cousin Lafe had him Down and Out. He fell back and took the Count. Cousin Lafe took him Home in a
                    Hack and roasted him, and told him he was a Rhinestone Sport and a Mackerel.
                "I'm all in," said the Wreck. " I admit everything
                    you say. The Man who lives in Town and thinks he is a Gay Dog isn't a Marker alongside of
                    the Respectable Citizen from down the Road. I am supposed to be a dissolute Clubman, but I take off
                    my Hat to a Cemetery Trustee."
                Cousin Lafe went back to the Country and reported that Sanford was a Nice Man but seemed
                    to be a little Wild.
                
                    MORAL: Don't try to keep up with any Pillar of Society.
            
            
            
                The Escape of Arthur mid the Salvation of Herbert.
                ONCE there was a lonely Man who Married, thinking that the would find a Home, but instead
                    of that he ran into an Experiment Station.
                The other end of the Team was the original Recipe Shark and Family Doctor.
                She was a bright, eagle-eyed Party with a high, throbbing Forehead, and she was always on
                    the lookout for New Wrinkles. Any time that she picked up the Lady's Household Friend and
                    read about a Cure for Chilblains she would cut, out the Article with the Button-Hole Scissors, and
                    then for Days afterwards she would be snooping around for a Case of Chilblains so that she could
                    work on it.
                She had about 3000 of these Home Remedies up her Sleeve, and any time that Arthur
                    complained of the slightest Ache or Pain she lit on him like a Bee on a Flower and started in with
                    one of her famous Treatments.
                
                She loved these private Clinics, with, Arthur strapped to the Operating-Table. He had
                    been blistered in so many different Places and handed so many kinds of Dope that he became Leery, in
                    time, and always claimed to be feeling Immense, even though he did not think he would live through
                    the Day.
                She bad some awful Things ribbed up for him any time that he showed up with a Bad Cold.
                    She would give him Vinegar Tea and a Lump of Sugar soaked in Kerosene. Then she would parboil his
                    Feet and hand him a few Onion Poultices, and put him to Bed with all the Covers over him and let him
                    lie there and Sozzle.
                Sometimes she almost drove him to drink, but he did not dare to drink very much for fear
                    that she would give him some secret Cure in his coffee, and thereby rob him of a Thirst which he
                    prized very highly.
                The Missus was a firm Believer in all these How-To Flim-Flams that run in the Monthly
                    Magazines:
                
                How to Beautify the Home without spending a Cent.
                How to live on 78 Cents a Week.
                How to become a Lady Sandow by exercising 3 Minutes every Day.
                How to lift a $2000 Mortgage on a. Salary of $10 per Week.
                Usually, when he came Home he found her draping an old Mother Hubbard over a Shoe-Box so
                    as to make a Hall Seat, or else she had a Hot Poker and was burning n High-Art Design on a Wooden
                    Platter. Not one of the Fads got past Experimental Lizzie. She took a Full out of every One.
                Sometimes when Arthur would come down to Breakfast, ready to punish a few Links of Farm
                    Sausage, he would find in front of him a Bowl full of what looked a good deal like Asbestos Packing.
                "Is it to eat?" he asked, backing off.
                "The surest thing you know," was the Reply. "It is Hokopoko,
                    the new tasteless Breakfastine, and it is recommended by all the Dyspeptics and Physical
                    Wrecks."
                
                
                    
                        Her Private Clinics.
                    
                
                
                "I don't want to get my dietary Hunches from the. Death
                    Chamber," said Arthur. "I should prefer to take my Tips from a good, husky
                    Farm-Hand."
                "But this has 63 per rent, of Nitro-Glutine, and one Tablespoonful contains the
                    same Nourishment that may be found in 18 Pounds of Sirloin Steak."
                "Say, why don't you buy a good, strong Dog and try these Things on
                    him?" asked Arthur.M "I refuse to take any more of this Chop-Feed. If you want to
                    get it into me you'll have to give me Gas and then inject it into my Arm."
                So she said she would Compromise by letting him have some Cereal Sausage. It looked just
                    the same as Sausage, and you could not tell the difference until you started to Eat it.
                What with the Health Underwear, the Electric Belts, the Pillows stuffed with Pine-Cones,
                    etc., etc., etc., Arthur was constantly reminded of the Fact that he was being used for experimental
                    Purposes.
                
                
                    
                        The New Tasteless Breakfastine.
                    
                
                
                He did not enjoy a real Let-Up until little Herbert arrived. When Herbert was 3 Days old
                    Mamma began to read Books on the Child Mind. Within a Month she had little Herby propped up in the
                    Crib doing Kindergarten Stunts, with two or three Old Maids off on the Side Lines coaching to beat
                    the Band.
                Arthur would butt in occasionally and try to protect his helpless Offspring, and then he
                    would get a hard Call-Down. The Missus had a large Scrap-Book full of Helpful Hints to Amateur
                    Mothers.
                She started in at Page 1 and gave Herbert the whole Works. Whenever any one who knew all
                    about the Care of Children brought her a new Preparation, she either fed it to little Herby or else
                    rubbed it on his Back.
                Arthur had the old-fashioned Notion that all a Kill needed was a Milk Diet and something
                    Rubber on which to chew, but, the Chief of the Experiment Station had a lot of Club Theories to be
                    tested, and she was working on little Herbert every Minute.
                
                
                    
                        Little Herby's Fate.
                    
                
                
                This made it Fine for Father, because he could shake his Electric Belt and get some real
                    Food by fixing it with the Hired Girl, but it was a fierce Lay-Out for little Herbert. Herbert never
                    had a Chance to sneak out to the Club and tell his Troubles and get a lot of Sympathy.
                Herbert had to stay right there in the House and let the Mothers' Club practise
                    on him.
                "He's a Wonder," said Arthur to his Friends at the Club.
                    "If he lives through it he'll make a grand Foot-Hall Player some Day."
                When Herbert was 6 years of Age the Scientific Mother had him reading Bliss Carman.
                    Father tried to slip him Mother Goose on the quiet, but was headed off.
                Still, Arthur was not discouraged.
                "There is always one Hope for the Boy who is brought up according to League
                    Rules," said the Father. "Wait until he gets into the Public School, and he will
                    get wise to a Few Things and probably flash a  few
                    unexpected Developments on Mother Dear."
                Sure enough, when Teacher wrote a Note and said that Angel had shied a Brick at a
                    Teamster, and, furthermore, had licked the inoffensive Son of a poor Hod-Carrier, the Experimental
                    Mother threw a Back-Twistwer and wondered why the Club System had failed to work out.
                
                    MORAL: As the Father is Bent the Child is Inclined.
            
            
            
                The Up-to-Date Atlas Who Carried the World on His Shoulders.
                ONCE there lived in a Jim Crow Town a slowing Intellect who was Postal on all the Issues
                    of the Day.
                Some one had to keep Cases on the Government and prevent the whole Outfit from getting
                    out of Kelter, and so the Job fell to Mordecai F. Quinsy. Mr. Quinsy found that he could give his
                    Time to regulating the Washington Game because his Wife did Sewing and his Daughter was an Expert
                    Stenographer. Between them they kept him supplied with good 5-cent Cigars and relieved his Mind of
                    all Business Cares.
                He had nothing to worry him except Affairs of State
                When he tackled a large International Problem he could do so with a keen, active Brain
                    that had not been fagged out, by any cheap Exertion, such as trying to locate the Winter's
                    Supply of Coal.
                Mr. Quinsy had the solemn Phiz of a professional Pall-Bearer, and much meditation 
                    
                        
                            An International Problem.
                        
                    
                     had corrugated the Front of the Dome. Those who merely
                    caught one Flash of him and never looked up his Record and checked off his Pedigree thought the was
                    about due to break into the Senate. To tell the cold and icy Truth, Mordecai could not have been
                    elected Constable, but just the same he knew all about John Hay's next Move, and sometimes
                    he fretted a goad deal for Fear that John would make a Miscue and permit himself to be Hornswaggled
                    by them foreign Diplomats.
                Mr. Quinsy could sit on a Kit of Mackerel, with a Bunch of Keys, a Barlow Knife, a plug
                    of good eating Tobacco, and about 35 cents in Currency secreted in his Jeans, and he could tell the
                    Treasury Department just how to manage the next $100,000,000 Issue of Bonds.
                One thing that worried Mr. Quinsy a lot was the possibility that Teddy would make some
                    serious Mistake. He felt more or less responsible for Teddy, inasmuch as he had formally nominated
                    him in front of Pilkins's
                
                Hardware Store as far back as 1889. If he could have been at Teddy's Elbow all
                    the time to whisper Advice there would have been no Chance for the Administration to get balled up.
                    But the Trouble was that Mr. Quinsy was out at Peewee Junction and Teddy was up at Washington, and
                    they could not get together to frame up a Policy.
                Mr. Quinsy was a man of Regular Habits and very Methodical. He had so much to do every
                    Day that lie had to work on a close Schedule.
                In the Morning, after his Wife had arisen and started the Fire and put on the Griddle,
                    Mr. Mordecai F. Quinsy would arise and take a few Observations of the Weather. He was a very able
                    Prognosticator, and one of his favorite Stunts was to get up in the Morning and do a little
                    Forecasting for the benefit of his Wife and Daughter.
                After Breakfast he put on his Overcoat and wrapped himself up in a Comfort so as not to
                    catch Cold and lose the Use of his
                
                Voice. If Mordecai V. Quinsy had lost the use of his Voice this Country would have been
                    in a Bad Way.
                Mr. Quinsy knew a Druggist who took a Daily Paper, and so, the first thing every Morning,
                    he went to the Drug Store to find out what Fool Break had been made by Congress. After reading the
                    Paper he sat by the Stove and laid out some Work for the Ways and Means Committee.
                After which he went down to the station to see Number Six go through
                After which he went up to the Post-Office to wait until the Mail had been distributed.
                    One day in 1878 Mordecai received a Seed Catalogue, and after that he was encouraged. While waiting
                    for his Mail Mr. Quinsy said a few plain Words about the Kaiser and stood up for the Monroe Doctrine
                About 11 o'clock every day Mr. Quinsy acted as Referee in a Pool Game, and then
                    went over to the Barber Shop to look at the Illustrated Papers containing the Pictures 
                    
                        
                            Number Six.
                        
                    
                     of Footlight Favorites and Noted Criminals. Mr. Quinsy,
                    being possessed of an Analytical Mind, was deeply interested in all Murder Mysteries, and for every
                    Case he had a few Theories of his own that would have been a great help to the Police.
                Just at 12 o'clock Mr. Quinsy went home and ate a hearty Dinner, after which he
                    returned to Main Street smoking a Farm-Hand Regalia and gazing thoughtfully at the Ground, trying to
                    straighten out the Panama Canal Business.
                In the Afternoon he hung around the Court-House more or less because he played a good
                    Game of Checkers, and, besides, he liked to be on hand in case the State needed the Services of an
                    unprejudiced Juror.
                Mr. Quinsy had a Weak Back, which prevented him from splitting Wood, but he loved some
                    kinds of Work, and the Honest Toil that suited him best was to sit, on a Jury in a Case involving
                    Assault and Battery.
                If there was nothing doing at the Court 
                    
                        
                            Suffering.
                        
                    
                     House, Mr. Quinsy usually went to a Real-Estate Office
                    and grappled with the Trust Problem. He had given much Thought to the Matter of legislating against
                    infamous Combines, and he was one of the first to discover that the Trusts were trying to whip-saw
                    the Working Classes.
                About the time that he had solved the Trust Problem he had to go over and see the
                    Afternoon Train go through and wait for his mail once more
                Late in the Day he usually dropped in at an Undertaker's Shop where a Veterinary
                    Surgeon and a retired Truck Farmer were collaborating on a Foreign Policy for the State Department.
                    Mr. Quinsy was always able to slip in a few Suggestions. He was dead set against the Anglo-Saxon
                    Alliance, and believed in the Annexation of Canada, even if it involved War.
                At 5:30 he would purchase a Pound of Oyster Crackers and have them charged. Then he would
                    go home to Tea, and tell Mrs. Quinsy and Daughter to fix up the Sofa for  him as he was suffering from a Headache and wanted to Rest for a little while.
                
                    MORAL: What we need in America is the Gospel of Relaxation
            
            
            
                Hazel's Two Husbands and What Became of Them.
                ONCE there was a Nice Girl who graduated from the High-School in a White Organdie, and
                    read an Essay, on Heliotrope Paper, entitled "Life and Its Opportunities."
                The Girl's Name was Hazel, and about the she drew the Diploma she was eating
                    Sour Pickles and just crazy to be an Authoress. A few Months later she Debut-ted with a Fanfare of
                    Trumpets, after which she was so busy straightening out her Dates and sorting over her Dance
                    Programmes that she forgot all about her Literary Ambitions.
                Hazel was built on the Gibson Plan, and it looked as if a good, fresh Breeze might blow
                    her away. Just the same, when she went to a Hop she was good for everything from the Grand March to
                    "Home, Sweet Home." All she needed to keep her on the Jump throughout the entire
                    Night was a dab of Chicken Salad and a Macaroon about 1 A.M
                
                Hazel stood in with the real Rowdy-Dows and was present at most of the tall Doings, but
                    she was a trifle shy on Wardrobe. Papa had a large Family hitched behind his lowly Apple-Cart, and
                    he eould not provide Hazel with very many Snake Rings and Diamond Belt-Buckles.
                So foxy Hazel had the Weather Eye at work. She was looking for something Kind and Easy.
                Of course, she liked the Boys she met at the Dances. They were lovely Chaps and kept
                    their Hair combed nicely. "Each one of them owned another Suit of Clothes and a tleman who
                    would hand her a Check-Book and tell her to go as far as she liked.
                Therefore, when an Elderly Bachelor with an Income of several Dollars per Minute began to
                    bang around she hearkened to the Voice of Reason.
                Hazel found herself in a swell Shack right on the Boulevard, with 14 Vassals to do her
                
                Bidding and n Change of Jewelry for every Hour in the Day.
                Husband would arise at 7.30 and pike to the Office, but Hazel would take her Coffee in
                    Bed about 10.30 and tllen read the Sussiety Notes, for fear that her Name had got. into the Papers.
                    Then she would have her Hair Servants to lift her into her Clothes. Then she would go out for a
                    little Ride in a Royal Equipage padded 14 inches deep. All this time the Money-Getter would be
                    answering the Telephone with one Hand and dictating Contracts with the Other.
                At 6.30, when the Producer showed up about as much Gimp as a Wet Towel. But Hazel, when
                    she began to sniff the Night Air, was just as kittenish as a Broncho and keen for a Frolic. She was
                    for taking in a chaste and instructive Musical Comedy and then having a tasty little Supper of
                    about. 11 Courses.
                If the Producer tried to lie down and 
                    
                        
                            10.30 A.M.
                        
                    
                     claimed that it had been a Hard Day at the Office, Hazel
                    accused him of being a Slobsterine, and intimated that he had ceased to Love. After sitting around
                    all Day, Hazel was not. hunkering for any Quiet Evening in the Library. She wanted to get out and
                    hit up the High Spots and dazzle the Public with her Al Exhibit of Precious Stones.
                Papa knew that if he did not go she would behind. He wanted to be game, so he would trail
                    along and hover like n Dark Cloud at the Outskirts of the Happy Group. The only time any one paid
                    any Attention to him was when the Check came.
                Hazel had him going South most of the Time.
                If he ever started to rise up and declare himself she would give him a sweet little Kiss,
                    right on the Forehead, and tell him to lie down and Behave.
                There is only one Finish for the deluded Mortal who tries to work on a Day Schedule and
                    at the same time cover the Bright-Light 
                    
                        
                            The Slobsterine.
                        
                    
                     District with the Night Shift. He winds up as the
                    Principal Attraction of a Daylight Function at which six of his old-time Friends wear White Gloves.
                    Every one sends Flowers, but he does not have to acknowledge them.
                Hazel looked very well in Black, but it was Hard Lines for her to stay in-doors. She knew
                    it would cause Talk if she cut loose before the Grass was Green in the Family Lot, so she was
                    pulling for an Early Spring and plenty of Rain.
                When she bought her Second Ticket for the Merry-go-Round, she was determined on one
                    Thing.
                "The next one I pick out will not be tied down to any Office," she told
                    herself. "I want a Man who can keep awake all Evening. I refuse to travel with Quitters.
                    What we need in this Country to put Ginger into our who begin to get Good along about
                    Midnight."
                So she picked out a handsome Wretch of Good Family who never had worked a Moment 
                    
                        
                            She Obtained a Decree.
                        
                    
                     in all of his Life, and who hated the sight of a Bed.
                He argued that it was Bad Form for any one to suggest going home before Daybreak.
                They went travelling together as soon as she had settled the Insurance. When they arrived
                    in a New Town he would go out to buy a Package of Cigarettes, and then he would return in three days
                    to find out if everything was O. K. and if she was having a Nice Time.
                But you could say one Word to his Credit. He never interfered with any of her
                    Arrangements, for the Reason that when the Arrangements were being made he was Non Est. He belonged
                    to several Clubs, at which the Members removed their Pajamas to put on Evening Clothes. Sometimes he
                    met his Wife at Dinner-Parties, and when he did sohe showed her every Consideration and asked her if
                    she was still living at the same Place. a Dinner-Party.
                Although she saw him only about once a
                
                Week, she always had this Consolation: She knew he was not working himself to Death in
                    any Office.
                When she applied for a Divorce, the Officers had to Hunt a long Time before they found
                    him
                He was very much Pained, and said he had never used a harsh or cruel Word to her, because
                    he always talked over the Phone, with Central listening.
                She obtained a Decree, and as she was leaving the Court-Room she was met by a sympathetic
                    Friend.
                "What are you going to do next?" asked the Friend.
                "I an, going to buy a Dog," was the Reply.
                
                    MORAL: It is often necessary to try two or three before the Right
                    Kind is Landed.
            
            
            
                The Galley Slave Who Was Just About To but Never Did.
                ONCE there was a Youth who tackled the Mercantile Career at a very light Stipend.
                His chief Ambition in Life was to get so far ahead of the Game that he could afford a
                    nice Cutaway Suit a swell Derby for Sunday, and a 14-karat De Beers set in a massive Gold Band.
                He learned to embrace the Country Trade and talk 175 Words per Minute, so that in a
                    little while he had an Offer from an Opposition Concern. Whereupon he said he hated to leave, butand
                    the House stood for an Increase
                He came into the Cutaway and the Ring, and then he found that he needed a Spike-Tail and
                    a Folding-Hat and a Cape-Coat. His Glad Raiment carried him right into Sussiety, and he began to
                    meet Gazelles that suited him, so he figured on the Probable Expense of Keeping House.
                He thought that if he could annex a good-looking 
                    
                        
                            He Came into the Cutaway.
                        
                    
                     Tottie with large, soulful Eyes, and take an Apartment
                    and keep a Girl, then he would be fixed for sure.
                So he went out for more Salary and carried the Bunk-Book next to his Heart. At last the
                    Proud Day arrived when he had his own Flat, with a rented Piano in the Front Room and Tidies on the
                    Chairs. Before the Lease expired Pet discovered that the Dining-Room was too small, and began to
                    dream Dreams of a House of their Own in which they could Entertain. So he tucked back his Cuffs and
                    took a fresh Grip on the World of Trade, and honed like a Turk, making Payments on the House. He was
                    beginning to look round-shouldered, but he drank plenty of Coffee and smoked fat Cigars and buckled
                    down.
                He had it all planned to take a good Rest as soon as he had lifted the Mortgage. He went
                    so far as to send out for Time-Tables and look at the Pictures of People sitting around in Steamer
                    Chairs enjoying the Sea Air.
                
                He would have taken a nice, long Vacation, only he saw a Chance to break into the Firm.
                    Accordingly he went in Debt up to his Eyes. He would lie awake at Night casting up his Liabilities
                    and computing Interest. He talked to himself on the Street, and acted just the least bit Dippy, But
                    he was determined to swing the Deal, and then, as soon as he was out of the Woods, he could take a
                    Trip and Gondolas and have the Time of his Life, with nothing to worry him.
                For Years he had said that it was a Crime for any one Man to pile up more than $100,000.
                    As soon as he went above that Figure it was a Case of sitting up Nights to count it. As soon as he
                    had that Hundred Thousand raked up and tied in Bundles, then for a Quiet Spot near a Body of Water
                    and a Naphtha Launch and the free, open Life of the Golf Links.
                To the 50-cent Table-d'Hote Fellow, 100,000 Samoleons in one Lump looks bigger
                    than the Union Station, but the Man who is  being gnawed
                    by the Mazuma Bacillus thinks Figures. He is always sizing up alongside of Rockefeller and Morgan,
                    and he feels like a Piker sitting in a stiff Poker Game with one White Seed.
                Just about the time the Business Man counted up $100,000 to the Good he discovered that
                    he needed seven Servants around the House. And the Missus could float downtown on a sunny Afternoon
                    and make $1000 look like a Pinch of Small Change.
                He set his Mark at One Million. Then, when he had that, out to the Sylvan Dell. He was
                    going to be a Gentleman Farmer.
                Every Offic Building on Earth is congested with hollow-eyed Prisoners who are planning to
                    be Gentleman Farmers. About next Year or Year afteraway from the Hurly Burly and nothing to do
                    except raise Chickens.
                All of them have those Chicken Dreams. This Business Man whom we are describing even went
                    so far as to pick out the kind of 
                    
                        
                            Fourten Push-Buttons in Front of Him.
                        
                    
                     Chickens he was going to raisePlymouth Rocks. He figured
                    how many Eggs he could get per Hen, and sometimes, when the Pencil was working well, he estimated
                    that he could make the Place self-supporting.
                In the mean time he was humping himself and eating Pepsin Tablets and taking a little
                    something every Night to make him Sleep.
                The Business had developed so that he had kept two Stenographers busy, and was jumping
                    from the Long-Distance Phone to the Private Office most of the Time, and chewing up 30-cent Cigars,
                    and in other Ways giving a correct Imitation of a Man who has a large and ambitious Family on Hand.
                He began to look Wild out of the Eyes and had a severe Case of the Jumps, but he had to
                    postpone that Rest for a little While, tails of the Business.
                When the Doctor hinted about Nervous Prostration he said that he was trying to get the
                    whole Organization down to a System, so 
                    
                        
                            Would be All Right in a Day or So.
                        
                    
                     that some one else could step in and run it, after which
                    he expected to take a Place in the Country and raise Chickens. He told the Chicken Story so often he
                    began to believe it himself.
                In order to systematize the Large Business so that he could turn it over to some one else
                    and then have his Vacation, he began to put in 16 hours a Day, and landed in the large Corner Room,
                    with a Trained Nurse putting Ice on his Head and telling him he would be all right in a Day or so.
                He had a Ticker put in at one side of the Bed, and kept a Stenographer on hand up to the
                    Afternoon that he departed this life.
                It is said that when he went to his Reward he was met by a Celestial Attendant, who
                    proved to be the Recording Angel.
                "If you're the Recording Angel, get out your Book," said the
                    Business Man. "I want you to take a few Letters for me."
                
                    MORAL: The Chicken Ranch is always in the Future Tense.
            
            
            
                The Willing Collegian Who Was Hunting for a Foothold
                ONCE there was a Young Man with a College Education, an assortment of Cravats, and about
                    $8 in Real Money who was anxiously looking for his Life Work.
                He wanted to break into a Learned Profession so that he could wear his Good Clothes all
                    of the Time and get the Coin without working too hard for it.
                His Idea of a dignified Snap was to sit in a small Office about three hours every Day and
                    have the Public come in and pass Money to him. The Medical Game struck him as being about the
                    softest Proposition of all.
                He thought that all Doc had to do was to lead the Mark into the Chamber of Horrors, where
                    they have the Skulls and the Butcher-Knives, look him over, ask a few Questions, tell him to stop
                    Smoking, and then tap him for a V.
                So the hopeful Graduate went to the old Family Physician for a few Tips.
                
                The antique Medicine-Man threw a BackTwister when he heard of the Boy's
                    Intentions.
                "Any one who tackles the $AEsculapian Stunt is a vitrified Mutt," said
                    his Whiskers. "If you must earn your living, be a Pordh Climber or a Short-Change Man. We
                    now have in this Country four Medical Degrees to every case of Tonsillitis. Most of us are kept so
                    close to the Carpet that we have to buy last year's Magazines to put in the Waiting-Room.
                    If a Patient dies, all of his Friends say that you helped to push him off, so they undermine your
                    Practice and begin to plug for Christian Science. If he gets well, he gives you the Laugh, and you
                    have to go after him with a Constable. If you acquire a Reputation, they work the Night-Bell on you;
                    and if you arrange a Dinner-Party, it's a Cinch that some Old Lady, three miles away, will
                    ring in an Epileptic Fit and crab your whole Evening. Nix the Materia Medica! Turn back before it is
                    too late."
                Thereupon the Collegian bethought him of 
                    
                        
                            The Antique Medicine-Man Explains.
                        
                    
                     the Law. So he went to old Judge Caveat and said he
                    wanted to start right in Reading.
                "If you can dispense with Eating for the fession," said the Judge.
                    "If you have got into the Food Habit, however, and feel that you may need Clothes now and
                    then, take my Advice and duck. It's getting so that one can't drop a Brick out of
                    a Window without hitting at least three Lawyers. The only ones who land are those that sell their
                    Immortal Souls to the Corporations, and they get roasted so hard that they can't be elected
                    anything except United States Senators. The Legal Profession is a Lottery in which there arc 999
                    Blanks to every Prize, and the one who gets the Prize usually draws a case of Nervous Dyspepsia with
                    it and has to live on Cereal Food. If you desire safe and Robber, but don't join the
                    Starvation Brigade. The Professions are petering out. We live in a Commercial Age. The Money-Makers
                        
                    
                        
                            All About the Grocery Business.
                        
                    
                     of to-day arc the Wise Boys who trade in Produce and
                    Manufactured Staples."
                Accordingly the Young Fellow put in an Application with a large Wholesale Concern. The
                    High Guy called him in and gave him a Talk.
                "If you are Strong and Willing we can start yon at $3.50 per Week juggling
                    Boxes," said the Manager. "In ten Years or so you will be moved up into the
                    book-keeping Department, where you can get 60 a Month just like finding it. Before you decide upon a
                    Mercantile Career, I may as well warn you that 95 per cent, of those who go into Business eventually
                    Wow up, and the other 5 per cent, compromise with the Trust and get what they can. The inexperienced
                    Kid without Capital who tries to get a Hammer-Lock on these air-tight Combinations has about as much
                    chance as a Chicken at a Camp-Meeting. If you with to sit on a High Stool so long that you grow fast
                    to it, and then, at the Wind-Up, get a Floral Pillow from your Fellow-Employes, come and  join our Happy Band. But, if you are Foxy, cut out the
                    Mercantile Act and try-Show to pull out something for yourself."
                By this time the Assets had shrivelled to about $2.60, and it. was up to the ambitious
                    Stripling to get on a Pay-Roll or etc begin the systematic Touch.
                Journalism looked very good to him, because it seemed to require neither Experience nor
                    Funds, and he could mould Public Opinion without joining the Moulders' Union. An Old-Timer
                    in the Business steered him away-"Don't start into this Life," he said.
                    "It's only a Tread-mill, and after your Legs give out you are dropped down the
                    Dark Chute. Besides, your Collegiate Training unfits you to help out on the Comic Supplement.
                    Another thing, the longer you dally with Journalism the less you know about it. The best Way in
                    which to direct a Newspaper is to stay away from the Office and write Letters to the F
                    ditor."
                
                The poor Youth had just about played his whole String when he happened to think of the
                    Stage. He was a Good-Looker and know how to wear Clothes, and had made terrific Hits in Amateur
                    Productions. The hardened Manager to whom he sent his Card handed him a Cake of Ice weighing 300
                    Pounds.
                "The Trouble with you is that you have been attending the University instead of
                    working on a Spring-Board so as to do the Double Flip-Flops," said the Rag-time Impresario.
                    "You arc next to the Greek Verb all right, hut you arc shy on Buck-and-Wing Steps, and I
                    can't see that you have a Chance in a Million. I suppose you have studied Shakespeare. If
                    so, you may possibly hook up with a fly-by-night Organization. The Legitimate Drama is now being
                    played at the Whistling-Posts and Water-Tanks, but not in the great Thought-Centres. If your Voice
                    had been cultivated in Europe, I think I could fix it for you to carry a Spear, but as you have not
                    sufficient Talent to get you 
                    
                        
                            The Old Broker's Final Word.
                        
                    
                     into the Chorus, I suggest that you go down and play the
                    Stock Market."
                Here was an Inspiration, lie would go and find Employment in a Broker's Office
                    and study the Quotations and gradually pike into the World of Speculation. He sought out a pious old
                    Gambler who had made a Ton of Money by never doing what he let on he was going to do.
                The veteran Financier would not be a Party to the ruination of any Good Young Man.
                    "Keep away from the Market," he said. "All those who play the Ticker get
                    the Solar-Plexus Punch sooner or later. This Speculation is very demoralizing. It has demoralized
                    every one except me. I always warn Young Men to buy nothing on Margins. Buy it outright. You can do
                    this easily after you've earned the first Million or two as a Stenographer."
                "There doesn't seem to be any sate Opening for an eager Soul with a
                    University Training," said the Graduate.
                "1 might give you a Hunch on the Q. T.,"  said the Old Gentleman. "Those who arc very Bright often marry into the
                    families of the vulgar Rich, thus acquiring the Means to go Abroad and study Art and, at the same
                    time, throw the Hooks into their Native Land."
                "I'll tackle Matrimony," said the Collegian. "That
                    appears to be the only Field that is not overcrowded."
                
                    MORAL: Every Man Knocks his own Line of Work and sticks to it like
                    Glue.
            
            
            
                The Town Lover; or, How the Lady-Killer Blew Up in the Stretch.
                THERE once lived at a prominent Railway Junction a local Swell known us Wilbur. He was
                    what one might call a Half-Portion. That is, he was ft little shy on Weight, hut what he lacked in
                    Avoirdupois he made up in Nerve. He was a Fresh Gazabe who could get away with anything. For
                    instance, he could sit in a Lady's Lap for an Hour at a Time without starting any Scandal,
                    and yet if a full-grown Man tried to hold this same Lady's Hand for a couple of Minutes,
                    just to he sociable, she would tell around that she had been insulted.
                In speaking of Wilbur the Girls usually said that ho was Cute, or else just too Cunning
                    for any use. The Men said various Things about him, but what they said docs not come under the head
                    of Sunday Reading.
                Every Debutante wanted to wear him on her Chatelaine, but most of the Men were plotting
                    to drop a litlle Prussic Acid into his Ice-Cream Soda
                
                
                    
                        No Scandal.
                    
                
                
                For some Reason or other the gabby young Squab who is a Ten-Strike with the Dolly Grays
                    never stands very Ace with the Poker-Players.
                When a man has put some blonde Esmeralda up on a Pedestal a mile high and is silently
                    waiting for the Day when he will know her well enough to carelessly throw one Arm over the back of
                    the Chair, it makes him Hop-Eyed to see some 90-pound Rabbit with an immortal Rind chase up to the
                    Goddess and give her the kitchy-kitchy Business under the Chin and call her
                    "Babe."
                The Pocket-edition Society Boy can take-Liberties that would cause the Six-Footer to be
                    murdered and thrown into the River.
                Wilbur was the busiest little Insect that, ever buzzed, and his Work had a Mahogany
                    Finish. He could put in an Afternoon with five or six boulevard Netties and make every one of them
                    think that she was the High Card. He ordered his Photographs by the Hundred, and he had collected
                    enough Locks of Hair to stuff a Mattress.
                
                
                    
                        Wilbur's Mail.
                    
                
                
                His Den was richly decorated with Trophies of the Chase, and the Postman becomelop-sidrd
                    from delivering Ins Mail.
                There is such a Thing as being too Popular, and that was what ailed Wilbur. He was being
                    passed around all the while and never had time to devote himself to any particular Queen, and,
                    besides, he didn't meet very many that were Particular. He fluttered from Flower to Flower,
                    and he did not have the Heart to tic up with any one of the Bunch and make her his Steady, because
                    he knew that the others would pine away or else renounce the World and enter a Convent.
                One Reason why Wilbur had such a strong Pull with the Buds was that he never permitted
                    his Work to interfere with his Social Duties. They could get him on the Phone at any time and book
                    him for any kind of a Stunt from a Luncheon to a Golf Tourney. He kept his Evening Clothes at the
                    Office, and he could respond to a Dinner Invitation like a Fireman going to a Fire. He never
                    side-stepped a chance to eat.
                
                
                    
                        Evening Clothes Always Ready.
                    
                
                
                One of his prize Specialties was to play sympathetic Companion to the Woman whose Husband
                    belongs to a Club. He cultivated the antique Hens who make out the Invitation Lists, and that is why
                    Wilbur usually led the German and distributed the Favors when the Smart Set pulled off a Cotillon.
                Although he was on Salary, he somehow contrived to hold up his End. Fortunately, his
                    Board did not cost him anything, and he squared all of his Society Obligations by making Party Calls
                    instead of sending American Beauties.
                Inasmuch as all of the real Tessies were more or less crazy about Wilbur, it seemed a
                    lead-pipe Certainty that he would land an Heiress who would tale him to Palm Beach on a Wedding Tour
                    and then pay his Tailor Bills for all time. However, so many were on his Trail that not one of them
                    had a chance would get him off into a Corner to toll him that she loved Blue Eyes, Beryl would
                    come-along and begin to stroke his Hair, and then 
                    Clarice would come up and pin Violets on him.
                A Selling-Plater can keep after one Girl and finally hound her into making a Promise, but
                    the Honey Boy has to play a Circuit all the Time. Wilbur usually had about 47 Names in his
                    Date-Book.
                He never ran short, because when the June Brides dropped out, a new Crop, fresh from the
                    Boarding-Schools, came in to fill the Vacancies.
                Year after Year the Ladies' Idol con tinued his heart-breaking Career, not
                    because he wished to be Cruel, but because he couldn't help being so all-fired Entrancing.
                There never was a time when he could have put a Tag on any Dulcinea without putting a
                    Blight on the entire Female Community; so ho waited.
                In fact, he overdid the Waiting Act.
                About the time that he outgrew his Hair and began to look a little puffy around the Eyes,
                    the Lumty-Tum $EAlite caught the Ath letic Fever. The Real Boy in Sussiety was  the husky Fellow who had played a College Eleven and who owned a String
                    of Polo Ponies.
                Little Wilbur, the has-been Midge, found that he could drift into a Drawing-Room without
                    causing the faintest Ripple.
                Now that he was becoming Bald and Shelf-Worn, no one cared to use him as a Pet.
                He was lucky if he got a few kind Words from some elderly Patroness. As for the Girls who
                    owned a Million Dollars apiece, they couldn't see him with a Spy-Glass.
                They would permit him to go out and call the Carriage, but that was about as far as lie
                    could go.
                So he became that pathetic Figure, the played-out Beauthe extinct Volcano in the
                    Landscape of Gayety. He tried to butt in, from Force of Habit, but he had the Ice-Pitcher handed to
                    him so often that at last he got wise to himself and realized that he belonged on the Top Shelf.
                He did what every Man doesviz., the best  He
                    can. He hooked up with a Maiden Lady who looked all right in the Dark, and although a Bundle of
                    Money came with her, he earned all that he got.
                
                    MORAL: He who nails the First One seldom makes a Mistake.
            
            
            
                The Attempt to Spruce Up the Family and Give It a Standing
                ONCE there was a Happy Family that began to get a few hard Humps when Ma bought a Work on
                    Etiquette. Up to that time the Outfit had not tried to throw on any Lugs.
                The Male Contingent slouched around tin-House in their Shirt-Sleeves, while the Girls
                    often came to Breakfast in their Balloon-Wrappers, and never thought, of primping until about 3 p.m. Father had an assortment of Rube Table Manners left over from
                    his early Experience on the Farm.
                He never saw the sense of changing Knives when he hacked into the Butter, and as for
                    using the side of the Spoon, he never could get the Hang of it.
                Up to the Time that he married and became House-broke he had been a Sword-Swallower in a
                    $4. Beanery. For years he up-ended his Soup-Plate, so as to get all that was coming to him, and
                    cooled his Coffee in the Saucer, and concluded his Exhibition of
                
                Barbaric Sports by using a large, limber piece of Bread as a Mop.
                His Wife worked on him for twenty years, and finally had him so civilized that he no
                    longer tucked the Napkin inside of his Collar, although he still put both Elbows on the Table and
                    groaned a little just before tackling the Pie.
                Ma belonged to several Clubs and began to meet the Lady Managers of Society. It was her
                    Ambition to lift her own Family out of the Skate Division and get the whole Bunch into the local
                    400. That is why she bought the Volume containing this year's League Rules for cutting into
                    High Life.
                She wanted the Boys to forget their cornfed Origin and do the Reginald Act and learn how
                    to act in the Presence of Ladies. They were mostly Hands and Feet, and had no Ambition in Life
                    except to play Baseball, but still she went to work on them "hopefully, knowing that our
                    most Exclusive Circles are more or less clogged up with Counterfeits whom Nature intended for the
                    Hay-Fields.
                
                The Girls were a Sad Lot when Ma lined them up and decided to transform them into
                    Drawing-Rooms Queens. They were Gum-Chewers of the most abandoned Type, and what they did to the
                    English Language it would he a shame to tell. Each of them was more or less stuck on some chinless
                    Percy who wore his Watch-Chain high up and rubbed himself with Eau de Cologne. They had read Popular
                    Novels until they were a trifle Moony. Their conception of Romance was to eat Pickles and write
                    Notes on Blue Paper.
                Ma's Purpose in studying the Book of Etiquette was to remove the Kinks from this
                    array of Raw Material.
                She wanted each of the Boys to he a Chesterfield, while the Girls were expected to brace
                    up and follow in the footsteps of Mrs. Sherwood.
                As Director of the Training-School she had to call them down about 1000 times per Day.
                    When she had Company the Boys always forgot to arise when a Lady entered the Room. When Dinner was
                    announced they 
                    
                        
                            Not Wholly Civilized.
                        
                    
                     were always first at the Table. Instead of conversing
                    with the Persons seated next to them, they humped over and got busy with the Vittles.
                As for the Girls, they usually flocked in a Corner and had a Whispering-Bee. At tire
                    Table they would get an Attack of the Giggles, without letting any one else in on the Good Thing,
                    thus making it very enjoyable for the Guests.
                To cap the Climax, the Male Parent would usually try to lift the Gloom by springing some
                    ancient Wheeze outlawed by Haverly's Minstrels as far back as 1880.
                Ma had a proud Chance to win a Social Standing so long as she was handicapped by that
                    Band of Yokels. Just when she would be talking Art with a Massachusetts Accent, one of the Boys
                    would break in with a Demand for a Second Helping of Cauliflower. Or else the Prize Blacksmith in a
                    well-meaning effort to be Hospitable, would urge the Lady Opposite to pitch in and Eat some more.
                
                
                    
                        Her Traning-School.
                    
                
                
                After Dinner it often happened that Ma would tout the Accomplishments of the Young
                    Ladies. Accordingly, they would be urged to Play Something, at which they would hang back and
                    snicker and do a Sis Hopkins Specialty.
                While they were Killing Time, Father would usually fall asleep with his Mouth open, or
                    else one of the Boys would upset something in trying to do a Sneak from the Room.
                As soon as the last unhappy Guest had escaped into the Night there would be a large-sized
                    Roast waiting for the whole Tribe. Ma would sit up until 1 o'clock reminding them of all
                    the Horrible Breaks they had made. She said that sitting around in the Kitchen cracking Hickory-Nuts
                    was about their Size when it came to playing the Society Game. She allowed that they would be more
                    at Home if they moved out to some Hunch and associated with the Live-Stock. When Ma got riled she
                    forgot her Culture-Club training and handed out a very Tabasco Line of Conversation.
                
                She said she was good and tired of trying to make Ladies and Gentlemen out of a Flock of
                    Yaps who took after their Father.
                At this she would get a Rise out of Father. He said he didn't propose to strain
                    himself being Polite to a lot of Four-Flushes who owed him Money. That was the Trouble with Father.
                    He was President of the Company, and seemed to think that his Official Position gave him a Right to
                    break Crackers into his Soup. He refused to wear a White Tie with his Evening Clothes just because
                    some cheap Department Manager had set the Style.
                As for the Offspring, they were too mullet-headed to get wise to Ma's
                    magnificent System of doing the Heavy. When it came to a toss-up between a Pink Tea and a Variety
                    Show, they put their Spending Money on the Coon Song. Any time that Ma dressed them up and took them
                    out to meet the $EAlite they hung back.
                At last Ma saw that the only Hope lay in 
                    shipping the whole Pack away to high-toned Schools in the East.
                For several Years the Rising Generation put a Terrific Crimp in Father's Income,
                    hut at last they came home all speeded up, and then they were so Fly that Father could not travel in
                    the same Class and even Ma could get a few Pointers from them.
                At present they are tearing up the Scenery in their Touring-Cars, and they have the Nerve
                    to tackle any kind of Society.
                
                    MORAL: A patient Woman can Educate any one except her own
                Husband.
            
            
            
                The Unhappy Financier and the Discontented Rube.
                ONCE there Was A Stock-Exchange Midas who had great gobs of the Wherewith.
                Day and Night he was hounded by those who were looking for Hot Tips, or who wanted to
                    touch him up for Denominational Colleges, or who had Good Things which they wished him to buck with
                    much Coin.
                At last, in order to escape the wearing sound of the Ticker and get the Hard Knots out of
                    his Nervous System, he ducked away to the Country and left word behind that he had gone to Europe.
                He struck a Rest Cure, where every one dressed for Dinner and a full Orchestra tore off
                    Popular Music. He saw the same Mournful Faces of the male and female Plutocrats who were trying to
                    purchase "Enjoyment at so much per Day, and they did not seem to have a tranquillizing
                    Effect on him. So he wandered away from the Hotel and took to  a quiet Country Lane, and soon he was in the Deep Woods.
                The Silence was broken only by the Rustle of Leaves, the tapping of the Woodpeckers, and
                    the occasional Stunt of some Feathered Warbler.
                "This is where Man really belongs," sighed the track-sore Financier.
                    " What an artificial and profitless Life we lead there among the Sky-Scrapers. Our Little
                    Existence is rounded off with a French Menu and a few lines of Bromo-Seltzer in the Morning. We toil
                    for years trying to get the Hammer-Lock on Fame, and when it comes to a Cash In nobody knows whose
                    Funeral it is, and the Trolley-Cars refuse to get out of the Way."
                While he was thus Meditating he came to a Clearing in which there was a humble Shack with
                    a dinky Little Garden behind it. In the Doorway of the Modest Cot sat a Rube who wore a heavy Fringe
                    on the Sub-Maxillary. Above his Head bloomed the symmetrical Morning-Glory, and the fresh 
                    
                        
                            In the Deep Woods.
                        
                    
                     smell of the Greenwood WHS mingled with the pleasing
                    Odor of the Store Tobacco he was smoking, the while he spelled out the Long Words in a Newspaper.
                "There's a Three-Sheet of Contentment for you," said the weary
                    Millionaire. "I wish I had his Snap. Nothing to do except read about Crime and watch the
                    Squirrels. No one to call him up on the phone. No lying awake at Nights wondering what
                    Attorney-General Knox is going to do. When he's hungry all he has to do is put on the
                    Griddle, pull a few Radishes, and milk the Cow. No getting roped in at Annual Dinners. No struggle
                    to butt into the Headquarters of the $EAlite. How I envy him!"
                So he approached the Man behind the Whiskers and greeted him cheerfully, for he felt that
                    he would fain know the Secret of True Happiness.
                "You have a charming Joint here," said the Financier. "You
                    seem to be quite away from the hurry and turmoil of the World."
                
                "Yes, it is very Lonesome," was the melancholy Reply. "I
                    should like to live on the Main Pike, but Land is too high. As soon as I sell my Hogs I hope to have
                    a Telephone installed. Sometimes three or four Days will elapse after an important Prize-Fight ere I
                    learn the Result. This failure to keep in Touch with Events is very trying to one who would be
                    abreast of the Times."
                "Why should the Outside World cut any Ice with you?" demanded the
                    Millionaire. "Here you have a beautiful Sylvan Retreat. The Birds carol in the Trees.
                    Nature is ever smiling. You are far removed from the carking Cares, the hard Throw-downs, and the
                    Bunko Manipulations of the Commercial World. Are you not satisfied?"
                "How can I he when I read here in the Weekly about a Newport Shindig where they
                    have $800 worth of Ice-Cream? Why should I ride Horseback when you Folks have Autos costing $7000? I
                    never get to see a good Show, and I haven't, had my Picture taken for 6 Years, and
                    sometimes I don't  have anybody come in to see
                    me for Weeks at a Time."
                "Why, you concatenated Chump, you have a two-acre Paradise here and you
                    don't know it," said the City Man. "I'd like to trade Places
                    with you."
                "I'll trade with anybody," said the Rube.
                    "I'm tired of this Dog's Life."
                "You're on!" exclamined the Finacier. "This is what
                    I'll stake you to. You'll have a Spring-lied with 4 Mattresses and a Canopy. You
                    can lie there on the Husks and look at $40,000 worth of Paintings by the Old Masters. In the Morning
                    a British Gentleman of Aristocratic Appearance will come and lead you to the Royal Porcelain, after
                    which he will dress you, without your lifting a Finger. You shall have Silk Underwear and a Monogram
                    worked on each Sock. At Breakfast you shall have Hot-House Grapes and everything else out of Season,
                    and Flowers on the Table. After Breakfast you may step into a Carriage with Gold Trimmings, drawn by
                    two Prize Bays, and 
                    
                        
                            "Yes it is Very Lonesome."
                        
                    
                     ride to an Office where the Chairs are padded eight
                    indies deep and all the Hirelings jump at your slightest Command. For Lunehcon you shall go to a
                    Club where you may meet those who have Money to burn; and if your Check is under $11, it shows that
                    you are a Piker. You can stop Work at 3 P.M. and go for a Spin in your French Touring-Car, with a
                    Chaffeur to work the Wheel. In the Evening you can put on your Glads and drink $47 worth of Vintage
                    Wines and take in two or three Theatres, and after that start in again and have something to
                    Eat."
                "You are stringing me," said the Rube. "Such Heavenly Joys as
                    these never come to the poor Yap."
                "I will let you use my Bank Account, and then you won't he a
                    Yap," explained the Millionaire. "Go and revel in the Life that you read about in
                    the Weekly Papers. All that I ask in return is the Use for one blissful Month of this sequestered
                    Snuggery, here among the Morning-Glories and the blithesome Chickadees."
                
                The Financier gave the Rube all the Credentials needed and shipped him to the roaring
                    Metropolis. Then he sat down under the whispering Trees with nothing to superintend except the
                    rising and setting of the Sun.
                Two weeks later, as the Financier was emerging from the Deep Woods he met the Rube coming
                    in with a Pullman-Car Towel around his Head.
                "What, so soon?" asked the City Man. "I've been
                    against it. for 25 Years. Why should you pass it up after two brief Weeks?"
                "For the first three or four Days it was Great Stuff," responded the
                    Sufferer. "Then I began to tumble to the Fact that the Shows were all about the Same and
                    that a $7 Lunch was a Delusion unless I had an Appetite. The Automobile was a Hit until some of the
                    New Machines began to pass me, and then I lost Interest. As soon as it was noised around that I had
                    Stuff, I became a Mark for every known Con Game, so I tightened up and refused to see Visitors, and
                    every one  said I was a Snob, and the only Friends I had
                    were the Waiters I tipped. So far as I ran discover, the Bust-Head resulting from the Bubbles that
                    cost $6 per Quart is the same old Feeling that we used to get out of Apple-Jack. In short, I begin
                    to see that the Rich can afford all the Luxuries, but the Minute they begin to dip into them, the
                    Trouble begins. I think I'm due for about one week of Absolute Calm. But what are you doing
                    on your way to the Station?"
                "Say, I don't like to roast your Establishment, but you have got the
                    bummest lot of Birds I ever listened to," said the Financier. "Their Repertory is
                    too limited. And that Cow has a Manner that is soothing for a Day or two and then begins to suggest
                    an irritating lack of Versatility, as it were. I discovered, also, a certain Monotony in the Antics
                    of the Squirrels. As for the Weekly, I have read it all through four times, including the
                    Sarsaparilla Ads, and along towards the last the only thing that interested me was the Time-Table. I
                    needed a good Rest, 
                    
                        
                            Comparing Notes.
                        
                    
                     and I've had enough to lust me fully 3 years.
                    When I strike that Club to-night, I'll simply sign my Name to the Card and have them bring
                    in the whole Works from Caviar to Caf$eA Noir."
                "I'm afraid there isn't any such, Institution as a Paradise on
                    Earth," remarked the Rube.
                "Oh, yes, there is," said the Millionaire, "but we never find
                    it twice in the same Spot."
                
                    MORAL: A Complete Change will always do one Good and sometimes do him
                    to a Finish.
            
            
            
                The Thoughtful Wife Who Tried to Give Henry a Restful Vacation.
                ONCE there was a great big Burly who had a Wife about the size of a Grasshopper. Usually
                    she wore a gray Tailor-Made that looked as if it would have to be let out if she gained another
                    pound.
                Any one, to look at Jessaline, would have said that she was rather frail and Weakly,
                    while the he-end of the Sketch looked husky enough to pull a Dray. It often happens that the
                    heavy-draught Bachelor picks out a Midge and makes love to her, and she is so scared at the size of
                    him that she hasn't got the Nerver to throw him down
                At any rate, the cute and dainty little Jessaline, with a Waist Measurement of 11 inches,
                    was all hooked up with the human Mastodon who went by the name of Henry and looked the Part.
                Now it happened that Hen and Jess lived in a nice little Town where there were a great
                    many lovely Old Families and a great deal of
                
                Wealth, but it was pervaded at all Hours by a Cemetery Calm. The Social Gayeties of the
                    Place revolved slowly around a Missionary Society. Any one desiring to mix a Cocktail had to pull
                    down all the Blinds and disconnect the Telephone, and also it was advisable to wear Masks at a Poker
                    Party.
                Jessaline would often become restless and champ at the Bit. She had attended a Select
                    School for Girls, at which she bad learned how to turn Handsprings and do other Parlor Didoes. No
                    wonder that she hated to play Dominoes all livening and then turn out the Lights at 9.30 P.M.,
                    which, in Keen Society, is the mere Edge of the Night.
                Now it chanced that Jessaline had a Chum. They had eaten Olives out of the same Bottle
                    while attending the Select School for Girls. Chum had gone against the Matrimonial Game, the same as
                    Jessaline, only, instead of landing in Sleepy Hollow, she was up in the City, taking in the Big
                    Show.
                She wrote to Jessaline, urging her to come up and put in a busy Week. After working 
                    
                        
                            Hated To Play Dominoes.
                        
                    
                     on the Handwriting for several Days, Jessaline succeeded
                    in reading the whole Letter, and she began to tease Henry to knock off for a Week and take her up to
                    the hoop-la Metropolis and let her burn a few Holes in the Track. She told Henry that he had been
                    sticking to his Desk too closely and that he needed a good Rest.
                Large Bodies move slowly, and several Days elapsed before Henry came to her Way of
                    Thinking, although it was a Pipe from the beginning that she would bring him around.
                Jessaline got busy and put six Women to work building a new Evening Gown for her It was a
                    Pale-Blue Cerise with Batten-berg Insertion, yoked with Mayonnaise and Valenciennes, the Flounces
                    being gathered in with Passementerie and the Bodice hand-painted. When Henry got a Flash at the Bill
                    he allowed that, instead of taking a Vacation, it would be better for him to stay at Home and work
                    about twice as hard. But winsome Wifey had everything packed, so  she took him in Tow and they boarded the Flyer.
                "Ain't this Grand?"asked Jessaline, as they sat in the
                    palatial Parlor-Car and watched the Scenery spin by. "We have a whole Week in which to rest
                    up and nobody to keep Tab on what we do and then report us to the Methodist Minister. I'm
                    sure that you will like Clara. She is a Holy Terror. She was engaged nineteen times before she
                    finally hooked up, and since she got Married People come for miles to get her to act, as
                    Chaperon."
                "What is the Programme?" asked Henry,
                "There'll be something doing every Minute, all right, all
                    right," said the Child-Wife. "Ask no Questions, but follow little Bright Eyes. I
                    haven't had a touch of Real Life since I crawled down the Liglitning-Rod at the Select
                    School for Girls."
                At that time Henry did not realize that a bright young Thing with a Boarding-School
                    Education can give the stalwart Business
                
                Man any kind of a Handicap and then leave him somewhere back of the Flag.
                Clara met them at the Train with a Buzz-Wagon. She had framed up a List of Engagements
                    that made the Roosevelt Itinerary look like Open Time. Clara had arranged to give them a little of
                    Everything except Sleep. Jessaline was tickled nearly to Death. She was waltzing all over the Track,
                    waiting for the word "Go!"
                The Getaway was a Dinner of 17 Courses, at which Jessaline tackled everything with-out
                    losing any part of the Conversation. After that they went to the Opera, which was a little too high
                    for Henry, but Jessaline threw a Conniption Fit every time Signor Dagolini climbed up and hit a Top
                    Note. They went hack to the Apartment and ate Stuff out of a Chafing-Dish until 3 A.M. When they
                    turned in, Henry was on the point of Passing Away, but Jessaline was just beginning to warm up and
                    be kittenish.
                "We shall have Oodles of Fun to-morrow," she said. "First we
                    have a Breakfast 
                    
                        
                            Ain't this Grand?"
                        
                    
                     at the French Restaurant, then a swell Luncheon at the
                    Club, then a Musical?, then a Dinner at the biggest Hotel on Earth, and then a Show, and then we are
                    all going out Slumming."
                "I drop out," said Henry. "One day has put me to the
                    Bad."
                "Don't be a Quitter," said Jessaline. "Stick to me
                    and I'll give you the Time of your Life."
                Next Day she took him over the Jumps, and he followed with his Tongue hanging out. He did
                    not like to admit that he could not keep up with a 90-pound Canary who was somewhat of an Invalid.
                    But when he sat and watched her eating her fourth Hearty Meal and chatting gayly, he tried to figure
                    out how any one with a Waist Measurement of 11 inches could manage it, but the Problem was too much
                    for him.
                The third day of Rest included the usual number of East, and wound up with one of those
                    Dancing-Parties that last until the Germans become peevish and refuse to play any 
                    
                        
                            Henry Holding On.
                        
                    
                     more. Henry was off in a Corner eating Soda-Mint Tablets
                    and holding on to a Chair to keep from falling off. Jessaline was right out in the centre of the
                    Mix-Up, looking as fresh as a Dollar Hunch of Russian Violets. After every Dance she would tear out
                    and get a few Glasses of Knock-Out Punch and eat a couple of Sandwiches, after which she would be
                    ready to do some more two-stepping. When the Orchestra finally struck and she had to pull out, she
                    found Henry in a Comatose Condition leaning against the Hat-Rack. She aroused him and told him the
                    Glad News that they were to get an Early Start and go out to a nice Road-House and have something to
                    Eat. Whereupon Henry fell in a Heap and asked to be counted out.
                All the way Home in the Carriage she toasted him and charged him with a lack of
                    Appreciation.
                "You act like a Dummy," said the indignant Jessaline. "Why
                    don't you cut in and have a Good Time, the same as I do? I  is to spring his Record on him and kid him until ho lets up. The other is to
                    believe everything and String him along. The Second Method is the one usually employed by all True
                    Artists. The older the Bachelor the bigger the Cinch. Hold on to one of his Coat, Buttons and look
                    up at him and ask him a lot of feebleminded Questions about the Wicked World and he will talk for
                    Hours at a Time. But the Minute the Sun goes down you want to yell for a Chaperon until you can be
                    heard in the next Township. That will lead him to believe that lie is a fascinating and dangerous
                    Person. It is always a terrific Hit. I know two Girls who landed Good Things last Summer merely by
                    sitting out in a Hammock and calling for Chaperons. They used to sit out until Midnight begging
                    somebody to go for a Chaperon, and the Gentlemen had to talk to them for Hours in order to calm them
                    and convince them that the Whole Proceeding was according to Hoyle; that is, as long as they were
                    with Nice Fellows."
            
            
            
                The Coming, Out Girl and a Few of Her Keen Guesses.
                MY daughter, we start for the Country next Week," said the elderly Society Bird
                    to her little Chick. "Us to the Summer Hotel for a bangup Suite at a Per Diem Rate that
                    will put a large, deep Crimp into Papa's Income for 1904. You are now at the PinFeather
                    Period, and Mother must teach you how to Fly. I have been giving a lot of Hard Thought to the Man
                    Game for, lo, these many Moons, and, without passing myself any fragrant Cluster of Green Peas, I
                    think I am On. Every Woman of Experience has a private Rogue's Gallery. She can give you a
                    Line on the whole Bunko Brotherhood from Sammy the Sophomore, who wears a BuckwheatCake instead of a
                    Cap, up to the decrepit old HasBeen who wants to hold your Hand because you look so much like his
                    Daughter. Taking the whole Outfit, from Seventeen to Seventy, I may add that they are the grandest
                    Bunch of ShellWorkers 
                    
                        
                            Schooling the Little Chick.
                        
                    
                     that ever operated. You are a Mere Child of 19, with a
                    Baby Stare and a Simple Faith in Mankind, and you are due to be Strung unless you Copper about,
                    fourthirds of all that is said to you. There will be enough Hot Air wasted around that Hotel this
                    Summer to keep a Flat Building nice and warm all next Winter. It behooves you to be Foxy, otherwise
                    you will be engaged to so many at one time that you will get twisted in your BookKeeping and
                    overplay your System. You must not, be chummy with any Gentleman until you have known him at least
                    Two Days."
                "No doubt I shall make many Miscues," said Isabelle, "and yet
                    I am willing to Experiment."
                "I suppose you understand that in order to be strong with the various Kinds that
                    will be on your Trail you must learn to be a QuickChange Artist," said Mother.
                    "For instance, there is the Spring Lamb with the Stingy little Coat and Big Shoes. He is
                    just home from College, and when he walks along  the
                    Veranda it sounds like a Team going over a Bridge. If one of those Squabs should begin to pursue
                    you, what would you do?"
                "I am so inexperienced I hardly know what to say," replied little
                    Isabelle. "I think, however, that I would tie a large Can to him, unless there was a
                    horrible Shortage in the Supply and I had to throw in a few Understudies. As a rule, the pinkfaced
                    Collegian is a little shy on Collateral and more or less of a Dummy on any Topic except Himself. The
                    way to make a TenStrike with him is to feel his Muscles and tell him how well his Clothes fit. If
                    you jolly him up for three or four Days you may get a nice Photograph of him, and then he will bone
                    yon for one in Return and nail it up in his Den and tell all the other Johnnies that you are crazy
                    about him. The Trouble with the Glad College Youth is that he has been plucked a little too soon.
                    Besides, I don't think a Man starts in to be Good Company until lie is past 25."
                "And some of them have a few Points to  pick up after they pass 55," added Mother. "You seem to be wise to the very
                    Young Kind. How about the Bachelor with the Tremolo Voice who wants to sit about sis inches away
                    from you all the time and look you straight in the Eye and tell you that Life was a Desert until he
                    bumped into you?"
                "That's the Time to hang out the Red Light," replied Daughter.
                    "I've been out among 'em only two Seasons, but I've taken that
                    Boy's Measure all right, all right. He's the kind that wants you to lean on his
                    Shoulder and tell all your Troubles to a True Friend after he has known you about 20 Minutes, and if
                    you hang back he is Hurt and seems to think that you do him an Injustice. He has got away with it so
                    often that his Nerve is up; and as for the Hufty-Dufty Talk that he has learned by Heart, it is the
                    Kind calculated to make a Girl ashamed of herself unless she starts right in and loves him with her
                    whole Soul. He is a pretty dangerous Proposition. You can say 'Scat!' to Ferdie
                    the Freshman, or else send him on 
                    
                        
                            The Check Seems Wise.
                        
                    
                     an Errand, but Mr. Arthur Fresh, who is getting along
                    towards 30, is so accustomed to the ThrowDown that he arises, dusts his Clothes, and comes back with
                    a Genial Smile and treats the whole Incident as a Joke. Then, if you Repent and try to Square
                    yourself, the Chances are that, he will wait until you begin to act real Friendly and then he will
                    give you the Toss and hike off after new Geraldine. This kind likes to switch from a Blonde to a
                    Brunette about every third Day."
                "Merciful Mayonnaise!" exclaimed Mother. "I don't
                    believe I am qualified to sit on the SideLines and do any Coaching for you. You seem to be Next. Did
                    they teach you all this at BoardingSchool?"
                "Don't give it away," said Isabelle, "but
                    I'll tell you on the Q. T. that we have what is known as the Protective Order of Buds. The
                    Trifler who goes up and down the Line springing the Guff about Love at First Sight is spotted and
                    tagged in a Hurry. There are two ways of handling this Party. One 
                    
                        
                            You don't need to attend any Night School."
                        
                    
                     is to spring his Record on him and kid him until ho lets
                    up. The other is to believe everything and String him along. The Second Method is the one usually
                    employed by all True Artists. The older the Bachelor the bigger the Cinch. Hold on to one of his
                    Coat, Buttons and look up at him and ask him a lot of feebleminded Questions about the Wicked World
                    and he will talk for Hours at a Time. But the Minute the Sun goes down you want to yell for a
                    Chaperon until you can be heard in the next Township. That will lead him to believe that lie is a
                    fascinating and dangerous Person. It is always a terrific Hit. I know two Girls who landed Good
                    Things last Summer merely by sitting out in a Hammock and calling for Chaperons. They used to sit
                    out until Midnight begging somebody to go for a Chaperon, and the Gentlemen had to talk to them for
                    Hours in order to calm them and convince them that the Whole Proceeding was according to Hoyle; that
                    is, as long as they were with Nice Fellows."
                
                "I take off my Bonnet to you," said Mother. "You
                    don't need to attend any Night School. There's just one other Variety. How about
                    the Lonesome Married Man?"
                "You mean the Kind that wants to tell you how sorry he is that he
                    didn't find you before he hooked up with a Woman who never seems to Understand him? He is a
                    Sad Affair. He is trying to sneak a Return Trip on the Flirtation Route after he has lost his
                    Ticket. As a Study he is fairly Interesting, hut the Pursuit of him is barred" by the Game
                    Laws. The best way to quiet him down is to get friendly with his Wife."
                "That settles it," said the elderly Society Bird. "Any time
                    that I want a Hunch I'll hunt up the Young Lady of To-day."
                
                    MORAL: It's a Wise Mother that can hand out any New
                Ones.
            
            
            
                The Soft Thing, and Some of the Things That Were Done to Him.
                ONCE upon a Time there was a Tapioca. A Relative had died and left him a large Bale of
                    the Carnegie Library Compound. As soon as it was noised around that the Mark was actually carrying
                    Money in his Clothes, every Short-Card Man in" the Business began to break through the
                    Crowd, saying, "I saw him first."
                In the Twinkling of an Eye the Legatee was transformed from an ordinary, handme-down Plug
                    to One of our Prominent Citizens.
                Many who had been unable to place him while he was fee-ding at a $4, Oatmeal Resort on a
                    Side Street now dashed madly across the Car-Tracks to give him the Joyous Mitt and ask him to come
                    up to the House some Evening.
                And he, like every other Proud Mortal who is being pelted with Bouquets, fancied that his
                    Popularity was based upon his own 
                    
                        
                            The Joyous Mitt.
                        
                    
                     Sterling Qualities and did not arise from the Fact that
                    he was known up at the Bank.
                Those who doctored up the Bricks for him did not take the Trouble to put any Gold-Plating
                    on the Outside. They nailed his Currency and then promised to deliver the Goods by Messenger Boy, so
                    as to save him Trouble.
                He learned that a great many Exclusive Organizations wanted to take in a few Members who
                    were Socially Prominent. Every time that be was handed the Social Prominence Gag he fell and signed
                    an Application Blank.
                In a Couple of Months he had so many Brothers and Fellow-Clubmen that he could not turn a
                    down-town Corner without run-Also he was Pie for the Dignified Gentlemen representing the Eastern
                    Publishing House. Long ago this species of the Hold-Up Man was known as a Book-Agent, but in these
                    latter Days he is a
                
                Special Envoy who brings Glad Tidings of Great Joy to the superior Intellectual Classes
                    who arc known to be there with the Coin.
                Every Hypnotic Salesman who cornered the Hark sang the old Solo about giving Special
                    Terms to a few Book-Lovers in order to derive a certain Prestige from the use of their Names.
                Take a Man who never has studied any Volume except the Winter Book and tell him that he
                    is a Bibliophile, and he will swell a few Inches whether he knows the Meaning of the Word or not.
                In a short time the Prominent Citizen had a Library that was greatly admired by all who
                    visited his Apartments, and the Books were in first-class Condition. He never took any of them down
                    for fear that he could not put them back in the Right Place.
                After about 3 Months he became an Art Critic and a sure-enough Connoisseur. He knew it
                    because a great many Dealers took  him into the Back Room
                    and told him so.
                Then they would throw the Light on a Creation that had been in the Salon, or else
                    tenderly remove the Cotton Batting from a Bronze that could not be broken with a Maul. He would try
                    to convince himself that there was a certain Difference between these Masterpieces and the Junk that
                    he saw in the 99-cent Stores. He had to see a Difference or else he could not have got away with the
                    Connoisseur Bluffs.
                So he became a well-known Collector. Many Friends told him he had Exquisite Taste, and he
                    began to believe it himself, so he attended Exhibitions and began to roast the Moderns.
                Whereas he had been known in the Old Days as a Parlor Blacksmith, he now discovered that
                    he was a Strong Card at Dinner-Parties, especially if he stood for the Check. He got many a Laugh
                    out of the antique Wheezes that he had cribbed from the Joke Book, and when he arose to spring the
                    prehistoric 
                    
                        
                            The Bullkon Prospectus.
                        
                    
                     Toast everybody applauded before he said a Word, because
                    that was the safest time to Applaud.
                Among other startling Discoveries made by the Popular Leader of the Smart Set was one
                    concerning his Business Sagacity. He received long, type-written Letters from the Pneumatic
                    Brothers, representing the Smoke Syndicate, offering to let him in on the Ground Floor provided he
                    would rush Check by Return Mail, otherwise it would be Too Late.
                It appeared from these Letters that the Syndicate had acquired all the Claims on the East
                    Slope of the Bullkon Range and were within 30 feet of the well-known Mine that was turning out $8000
                    a Minute. Already three Shafts and the Original Capital had been sunk, and the Ore was found to
                    contain German Silver, Brass, Gold Filings, Celluloid, Borax, and Pepsin, all in Paying Quantities.
                The Expert employed by the Company had just completed his third Dream, and estimated 
                    
                        
                            Evidence of Good Faith
                        
                    
                     that the Lodes somewhere in the Vicinity contained
                    $40,000,000 worth of Something, and now it was merely necessary to go ahead and find it. The Stock
                    offered at 8 cents a Share would be advanced to $1.14 on January 1st.
                Accompanying the Confidential Letter was a Half-Tone Picture of the Mountain, merely as
                    an Evidence of Good Faith.
                The Mark had read somewhere that any one who comes into Property is not considered a True
                    Sport until he takes a Flyer at the Mining Game. He bought a few Bundles of Stock, the Par Value of
                    which made Senator Clark, of Montana, look like a Piker, and although his Cautious Friends warned
                    him to hold out his Money and loan it to them, he persisted in his Wild Speculations.
                He put in more than $450, and at the end of the Fifth Year received $1.87 ill Premiums,
                    and expects to he in the Charley Gates Class if he lives until 1950.
                In the mean time he is working at his  other
                    Trades of Prominent Clubman, Social Leader, and Art Critic.
                
                    MORAL: Wealth brings Happiness only when expended for Fuel to feed
                    the Spiritual Existence.
            
            
            
                The Cub Lover, the Superior Dad, and the Lady Who Told the Truth.
                ONCE there was a seventeen-year-old Lambkin with long Legs and his Hair parted in the
                    Middle who was taken down with a severe case of Love-Gripes, known in the Books as the Spooney
                    Infantum.
                He cut off on his Eating and became white around the Gills. Most of the Time he sat
                    around looking at the Rugs and feeling sorry for himself.
                The Object of this hungering Affection was a 90-pound Gum-Chewer who lived next Door. She
                    was a fresh and merry little Soubrine half-way between Long Dresses and Short Dresses. She was very
                    Lippy, and talked back to her Folks and made Sassy cracks at the Old Ladies who came along, and was
                    a Champion Giggler.
                Most people regarded her as the Neighbor-hood Pest, and suggested that it would be a
                    Grand Idea to turn back the Calendar about two Years and go at her with a Slipper.
                
                
                    
                        Case of Spooney Infantum.
                    
                
                
                She was just at the Perky Age. She had her first Cart-Wheel Hat and a little Wrist-Bag,
                    and she was experimenting with the Powder-Puff and putting in considerable Time on her Shape.
                She thought she was the Works, and so did little Willie. He wanted to marry her, but he
                    had only 90 cents in his Tin Bank and a License cost $2.
                So all he could do was worship her with a yearning and hopeless Love and write seven or
                    eight mushy little Notes every day. Although she was shy on Experience, she had the Feminine
                    Instinct, for she would carry on with two or three other grammar-school Tadpoles all the time, just
                    to keep Willie het up and miserable.
                Willie's Mother had seen a good many Children and was familiar with the Symptoms
                    of the Veal Period, so she was treating him gently and trying to nurse him through the Attack. Not
                    so with the Old Gentleman. It made him wrothy to see a Hulk of a Boy make such a Blithering Imbecile
                    of himself.
                
                
                    
                        Pa Hands Out Advice.
                    
                
                
                Like nearly all Papas, he believed that Puppy Love should be cured with a Piece of
                    Scantling.
                The more he roasted Willie and poked fun at the gabby little Tidbit next door, the more
                    deep-seated and inflammatory became the Fever that Willie mistook for True Love. The poor Kid fell
                    behind in his Classes and moped around the House trying on different Cravats.
                Sarsaparilla did not seem to help him, and when any of the Callers told his Mamma that he
                    was looking Thin and Pale, he put on a wan Smile and felt encouraged, for Willie had it all fixed up
                    that he was to die of a Broken Heart and have a Swell Funeral at the First Presbyterian Church, with
                    his Beloved sitting in the Front Row and weeping copiously. He saw no other Way of getting back at
                    his Cruel Parent.
                Willie's Papa, in trying to hammer the Divine Sentiment out of his idiotic
                    Offspring, made a Specialty of the familiar Song-and-Dance  beginning, " When I was at your Age."
                So far as Willie could gather from the rough Line of Conversation handed to him about
                    three times per Day, Papa had always been cold-blooded and sensible, even in his earliest Youth.
                    Papa never had been so weak and foolish as to fall in Love. Sometimes Willie wanted to ask him if he
                    had married Mamma on a Bet, but he was afraid to start anything.
                As for Mamma, she sat back with her Lips closed tightly and listened while the
                    theoretical Head of the Family joshed poor Willie and bragged about himself, and told what a bright,
                    industrious, level-headed Boy he had been along about 1876.
                She stood for it a long Time, and then she decided to take charge of Willie's
                    Case and put him Wise. Papa's Scheme for breaking up the Affair with the Bantam next door
                    was to threaten to send Willie to a Military School if he ever spoke to her again. Papa knew a lot
                    about the Insurance Business, but  he was a Shine when it
                    came to pulling off a piece of Fine Work in which tender young Affections were all snarled up.
                It happened that Papa had to go East for a Month, and no sooner had he jumped the Town
                    than Mamma took Willie into her Room and flashed a Bundle of Letters on him.
                " There are a few Samples of the Juju-Paste that your Father used to send to me
                    back in 1880," she said. " I hate to Call him, but I want you to know that no
                    matter what you do, it runs in the Family. Glance over this one, for instance. He calls me Honey
                    seven times in three Lines, with a couple of Sweeties thrown in to make it good and strong. As a
                    Juvenile Gush your Pa was the Human Limit. Of course, that was long before the Rheumatism caught him
                    and he began to see the Doctor about his Liver. You must always respect your Father, but you
                    needn't believe anything he says. In regard to your deep and steadfast Love for the
                    Beautiful Creature just over the Fence, I 
                    
                        
                            Willie Makes a Quiet Sneak.
                        
                    
                     will say that I have framed it up with her Mother to
                    have the two of you Married just as soon as you are old enough, which will be in about Five Years.
                    In the mean time you are at liberty to put in all of your Time with her. I suggest that you go over
                    to her House immediately and Converse with her for several Hours concerning Art, Literature,
                    History, or whatever Topic is upper-most in her Mind. When you get tired of calling on her she can
                    come over and see you. It is customary for an Engaged Couple to be Inseparable."
                When Papa came back from the East he found that Willie had gained 8 pounds and was very
                    busy organizing a Junior Ball Team to do up the West Side Gang. Every time that little Sweetheart
                    came through the Side Gate to play will him, he gathered up his Mask and the Big Glove and made a
                    quiet Sueak for the Alley.
                Papa saw that the Affair was busted, and he told his Business Partner that he had  reasoned with the Kid and brought him to his Senses
                
                    MORAL: In case of Neighborhood Complictaions, send Papa on a Business
                    Trip.
            
            
            
                The Honest Effort to Go the Distance and Then the Melancholy Fluke.
                ONCE there was a Rhinestone Sport who had an ambition to be called a Good Fellow.
                He had a Cousin Jim who was known in Rapid Circles as a Prince, so he decided to trail
                    after Jim and got in among the RowdyDows.
                Jim was full of Wise Talk about the Ponies. Ever and anon he would carelessly fish out of
                    the Side-Pocket a large Wad of the Green Kind with a Fifty for a Wrapper and tell about sitting in
                    with a couple of Horsemen and a Wine Agent the Night before. He loved to speak of Hotels where a
                    Swell Room with Bath came to only $9 per-Day and explain that he was getting a Rate.
                Jim felt that he was wasting his Conversation any time that he mentioned any Pica-nothing
                    but Sporting Corpuseles of the Crimson Variety moving about in his Arteries. 
                    
                        
                            Herbert and Jim.
                        
                    
                     He was ready to lay a Small Bet on any Proposition, give
                    or take, and when he put up his End he never batted an Eyelash. He had the Confidence of many of our
                    most celebrated Barkceps and could give the Hurry-Up to any well-known Gam.
                No wonder that pale-faced Herbert, the would-be High-Roller, looked with Awe upon Cousin
                    Jim and inwardly longed to butt into his Class.
                For be perceived that be never could stand Ace with the sure-enough Fellows until he had
                    demonstrated that he was a Good Fellow.
                Jim slipped him a Tow-Line and took him out into the Night Air to pick up a few Pointers.
                Herbert learned that the first Rule for being a Good Fellow was to move rapidly up to the
                    Poison Counter every time an Order went in. Herbert weighed about 100 Pounds, and the Doctors had
                    told him to try a Milk Diet, hut he did not dare to 
                    renig, otherwise some one might have suspected that he-was a cheap Varnish and a low-down Quitter.
                    He was a Feather-Weight and an Invalid, but he wanted to he Game.
                So he stood in Line with the copper-lined Rounders who had Bull Necks and weighed about
                    220 on the Hoof, and made an awful Bluff at going along with them. He knew that to take Vichy would
                    be a Misdemeanor, and to duck altogether would be a Crime and might block him out of the Good-Fellow
                    Division for all time to come.
                Consequently he would Stick, with his Breastbone against the Railing, and continue to
                    hoist until he was Pic-Eyed. Then him into a four-oared Hack and send him Home.
                Next morning he would awake with the Head spread out over two Pillows, and his only Joy
                    in Life would he the proud Remembrance that he had demonstrated his Desire to be a Good Fellow.
                
                He learned, also, that in order to he the genuine It he must go to the Track and get on
                    friendly Terms with Whispering Ike, the Boy who holds the Watch on the Morning Gallops and gets a
                    Commission from all the Poor-Houses.
                In a Short Time he had a lot of Good Stories about being nosed out and was sleep-ing with
                    the Dope-Sheet under his Pillow. Although he went $1200 to the Bad on the Meeting, he made the
                    Personal Acquaintance of at least a dozen Celebrities who wore Red Vests, carried Field-Glasses, and
                    bet nothing but Markers, therefore he had the glad knowledge that slowly but surely he was absorbing
                    sonic of the Attributes which distinguish the Good Fellow from other Members
                After all, the only cinch Method for becoming a steam-heated Gazabe is to exhibit a tall
                    Nerve in a cut-throat Session of the Jim knew a lot of Gentlemen Players who were devoting their
                    attention to Poker because 
                    
                        
                            Herbert Becomes Pie-Eyed.
                        
                    
                     they were getting too Fat to climb Porches. As a Special
                    Favor he fixed it so Herbert could get a Place at the Table.
                It was a Proud Moment for the Amateur when he sat in that Distinguished Company and began
                    to pick up Hands and then put them down again. The Sheep that walked into Armour's Packing
                    House bad the same kind of a Chance that Herbert had when he-put his Elbows on the Green Cloth and
                    tried to keep from trembling.
                He had been against the one-call-two Boarding-House Game, where they hand back everything
                    over $2, but he was not accustomed to dallying with Friends who took out Pencils and began to figure
                    how much they could get on his Clothes.
                They were the kind that started in to play just about where be left off. The only Reason
                    they didn't kill him with the Ante was because he looked so Good to them that they wanted
                    to keep him in. It was one of the Games that begin to get Ripe about the time the Church Bells are
                    ringing.
                
                
                    
                        The Trimmer's Union at Work.
                    
                
                
                The Trimmers' Union had no way of knowing that they would ever get, to him
                    again, so they decided to make one Job of it.
                After Herbert had signed up all the Checks and put a Cold Towel on his Head, he began to
                    Roar somewhat and talk about chopping on the all-night Seances.
                " You must not Beef," said Cousin Jim. "A True Sport never
                    lets on, even when they unbutton his Shoes."
                " Do you know, I sometimes suspect that, I am not qualified to be a Hot
                    Dog," said Herbert. "I find that I begin to pass away about 2 A.M. Perhaps it is
                    owing to some Oversight in my Early Training, but I notice that after I have taken a thousand Drinks
                    I cannot put, the Red Ball into the Corner Pocket. I have a Timid Nature, and somehow I cannot learn
                    to whoop the Edge on a Pair of Nines. I'm afraid that I drank too much Rain-Water in my
                    Youth And, besides, I got into the Habit of going to Bed. It's a great Blow to my Pride,
                    but I don't think I am gaited to keep up with the
                
                Bell-Cows. Me back to the Cheap Push at the Boarding-House."
                >MORAL: Many are Called but few deliver the
                Goods.
            
            
            
                The Unsympathetic Parent Who Turned Down Three Different Varieties.
                ONCE there was a long-headed Father who had taken the Junior into the Down-Town Office
                    and was trying to eradicate the Greek and Latin from his System.
                The Junior was a Lovely Chap whose Clothes came to about twice his Salary. He resembled
                    the smooth-faced Hero of a Richard Harding Davis $1.50 Book. By keeping his Hair neatly gummed down
                    and wearing the right shape of Collar, likewise vamping a few tender Chords on the Piano and holding
                    up his end in a light-weight Conversation, he had managed to elbow his Way into the Front Row of
                    that Select Division of the human Race known as the Landed Gentry, because they get Landed so often.
                Bertrand Flappingdale was the Name of this particular Confection. In Our Set he was known
                    as Bertie, and among the Employes at the Shop he was known us a Bluff. Bert's Pathway in
                    Life was so nicely Lubricated  and every one was so
                    awfully Good to him that after a while he felt reasonably Certain that the Earth and the Fulness
                    thereof had been dished up especially for his Benefit, and he could cancel the Order any time that
                    he saw fit.
                Flappingdale, Senior, hart never smoked Egyptian Cigarettes and attended Junior Proms
                    during his Incubator Period. He had been too busy trying to make the Meal-Tickets last from one
                    Saturday Night to another. The only Time he got real hungy was when he told how he used to work for
                    6 a Week and plant $100 a year in the Build-Years since they took his Boiled Dinners away from him
                    and made him eat Artichokes, when they threw him into the long-tailed Regalia with the misfit Tie he
                    had Yap stencilled all over himself.
                You may take onw of these self-made Luminiaries and wean him away from his Pie and rub
                    him with Silk Underwear for years,  but you cannot iron
                    the Lilies of Rugged Character from his Front-Piece nor separate him from the Homely Doctrines that
                    were called to his Attention by means of a Hickory Gad some forty years earlier in the Game.
                Consequently, the elder Flappingdale did not hit it off to any large Extent with
                    Bertie's Friends, most of whom had their Names already set up in the Society Column 365
                    Days in the Year, but not one of them could have figured a 2-per-cent. Discount unless he had taken
                    a Day off. They did not care for Business, but Business never seemed to Languish much on that.
                    Account.
                One of the Hard Jobs that Fate had mapped out for Flappingdale, Senior, was to prevent
                    his blue-eyed Offspring from being abducted and snaked away to the Altar. The Trouble was that
                    Bertie wanted to he Abducted. About every Change of the Moon he would begin to act. more or less
                    Dippy and cut out the Office altogether and go Girl-one. Horse hitched in front of the other.
                
                Then the head of the Works would have to call him in and put some Cracked Ice on him and
                    get him cooled down.
                The first one to lay him out and have him Fluttering was a 90-pounder about six weeks
                    from the Nursery. The cold-blooded Guvnor begged him not to rob the Cradle, and wanted to know
                    something about her Knowledge of Housekeeping, which is invariably a Stiff Jolt for Love's
                    Young Dream. While Bertrand was waiting for a Chance to clope with the Bud, a New Show came to town,
                    and there zipped across the Horizon of his Fresh Young Life a Hurrah Soubrette who wore Holes in the
                    Stage every Evening doing a very refined Coon Number.
                From the moment when he looked up at her and saw that she had taken notice of his
                    Presence on Earth, he passed into a Sweet Trance from which he did not fully Awake until the Troupe
                    left Town, when he found himself watching the Red Light disappear around the Curve and realized that
                    he  had played his Violets on the Wrong Number.
                The Busy Lover always goes from one Ex-Box what does Brash Bertie do but get himself all
                    worked up to a Temperature of 104 over the kind that is known as Terribly Bright? The one he was
                    determined to Marry, unless somebody got out an Injunction, sat around in an off-color kind of a
                    sad, Mother Hubbard make-up and handed out Brilliant Conversation that was good enough to be taken
                    down in Short-Hand and put right into a Book. She threw her Search-Light on the helpless Bertrand
                    and dazzled him to a Fare-ye-well. She got him into a Turkish Corner and told him of the Yearnings
                    of her Soul and all about her Empty Life and how she had groped for an Affinity, and although he
                    muffed a good many of her Points and was clear of the Ground most of the Time, he realized that he
                    was in the Presence of one who could take him by the Hand and show him a lot of  Tilings that he had never been wise to as yet. So he wanted to marry her
                    and sit around all Day with his Head on her Shoulder and have her talk Copy, worth about 3 cents a
                    Word.
                Father noticed that he was off his Feed and looking wild out of the Eyes, so he called
                    him in and wanted to know the name of the New One.
                " Cut it out," said he, when he had learned the Horrible Truth.
                    " Home is not a Left-lire Bureau. I don't blame any Man for marrying a Woman who
                    has got the Intellectual Bulge on him. In these Days of Thursday-Afternoon Clubs and Reading
                    Circles, it's a Cheap Grade of Wife who hasn't got, the he-end of the Outfit
                    beaten to a Pulp. Nearly every Woman knows more than her Husband, but it helps some if he has enough
                    Gray Matter to enable him to chip in now and then, if only to give her the right Cues. But 30 years
                    would be a long time to sit at one end of the Dinning-Room Table feeling about the size of a Roach.
                
                I have known several specimens of the Victim who marries the woman who is going to lead
                    him on and on. She leads him on and on until he begins to Blow, and then she usually goes on and on
                    with something wearing a White Necktie and an Alpaca Coat. If I my own Mental Caliber. Of course,
                    you may have to hunt a long time, but when you locate her you can tell that she is the Right Kind.
                    Any one who will agree to Marry you is in your Class, and you can gamble on that."
                " I have tried the Innocent Young Thing, the Sophisticated Soubrette, and the
                    Cultured Club Girl, and you kick on all of them," said Bertrand.
                " They are all Nice Girls," said Mr. Flap-pingdale. "
                    Let's wait until we spot one who has something coming to her and then we will put up a Good
                    Joke on her."
                
                    MORAL: It is a Wise Father That tum bles to his own Son.
            
            
            
                The Ninety-Pound Knight-Errant and His Lady Fair.
                ONCE there was an Estimable Lady named Mrs. Killjoy who used to hunt for Trouble with a
                    Scarch-Warrant.
                She was not happy unless she was being Insulted. Before any one chirped she knew that she
                    was going to have Bricks thrown at her Character.
                Mrs. Killjoy held to the obsolete Theory that Man was put into this Mundane Trouble
                    Factory to protect weak and defenceless Woman from all Slurs, Slights, and Insults. That is why she
                    picked out for her True Knight an undeveloped Specimen, about the size of a Philadelphia Squab, with
                    four-inch Biceps.
                His steady Assignment was to fight her Battles. Mrs. Killjoy was one of those Sensitive
                    Plants who could not get into a Trolley without having some one rudely Stare at her. She always
                    suspected that the He-Salesmen in the Stores were trying to  make Love to her, and if any Man happened to be walking behind her on the same
                    side of the Street she knew that she was being Pursued.
                " Are you going to sit here and allow your Wife to be Insulted?"
                That was the Speech she would hand him when they were out, together. Then it was up to
                    him to call some 200-pounder or else be prepared to lie awake half the Night and listen to the Story
                    of her Wrongs.
                Sometimes he suspected that she wanted to realize on his Life Insurance.
                His usual Play was to promise to be an Avenger. Then he would hunt up the Per son who had
                    grossly insulted Mrs. Killjoy and apologize in her behalf and say that she was a trifle Dippy.
                What Mrs. Killjoy needed was a Husband in a full Suit of Armor mounted on a White Horse
                    and thirsting for Blood. She had read the wrong kind of Books. Husband knew that she would stack him
                    up against it, sooner or later.
                
                
                    
                        Dusting the Bin With Mr. Killjoy.
                    
                
                
                Sure enough, one Day he found her in Tears and learned that the Man delivering the Coal
                    had been Impertinent and had failed to remove his Hat while speaking to her. She wanted to know if
                    Mr. Killjoy was a Man or a Mouse, and that settled it. He went out to roast the Teamster and she
                    followed along-to Gloat.
                The Teamster was a Low-Brow with a 48-inch Chest, and he did not know a thing about the
                    Henry of Navarre Business. He grabbed Mr. Killjoy and dusted the Bin with him.
                While the Sufferer was in the Hospital waiting for the Bones to join, Mrs. Killjoy well
                    enough to he around you must hunt him up and shoot him."
                "I will," said the brave Knight, "if I can get one of those
                    Sandy Hook Guns that will carry six Miles."
                
                    MORAL: In these Days, Chivalry must wear a Tag or it will not be
                    Recognized.
            
            
            
                The Fearsome Feud Between the First Families
                ONCE there grew up alongside of a Railroad Track an overgrown Village that refused to be
                    called a Town, so it was known as a City. It had a Water Tower, a Court-House Park, and a Steam
                    Laundry. On the Main Street was a Business College where the Yokels learned in nine weeks how to be
                    Merchant Princes. Also a Trolley Line that ran as far out as the Cemetery and then threw up both
                    Hands. The Particular Pride of the Place was a $2.50 Hotel with a Tiled Floor and a
                    Ladies'Parlor so Magnificent that no one had been known to use it.
                All the Residents of this Progressive Community took their Cues from two Families that
                    controlled more or less Bank Stock and had Fountains playing in the Front Yard, to say nothing of
                    Senegambians to look after the Horses and keep them from being Lonesome. These two Tribes were the
                    real three-X Gonzabas. Any one on calling  Terms with the
                    aristocratic Skilligans or the exclusive Winkles had a perpetual License to throw on right Smart of
                    Dog and kick about the Lack of Good Society.
                One of the many Diversions planned by the high-collared Residents, so that they might
                    temporarily forget where they were living, was Amateur Theatricals. The Dramatic Club was carefully
                    selected from the Inner Circle of the Finger-Bowl Set, and whether they could Act or not it was
                    always a Satisfaction to know that they could rub up against the toney Skilligans and the hifaluting
                    Winkles.
                Two or three times every Season the Club gave a Show at the local Temple of Art. After
                    all Expenses had been paid, the Net Proceeds, which sometimes ran as high as $18, went to Charity.
                    This was another Case in which Charity covered a Multitude of Sins.
                At one of these Dramatic Treats it was decided to put on the Balcony Scene from
                    "Romeo and Juliet." Win. Shakespeare 
                    
                        
                            Kidding the Performance.
                        
                    
                     was in no Position to get out an Injunction, and the
                    Club had such a Social Drag that no one dared to set fire to the Opera-House in order to head off
                    the Massacre.
                It was unanimously agreed that Mr. Plulo Quaekenbush was the Boy to do Romeo. He was Golf
                    Champion, having done 9 Holes in 58 on a Course which made it necessary to Putt with a Lofter.
                    Besides, lie had led the German every Year for 18 years and had Relatives in New York City.
                But when it came to the selection of Juliet there were two Candidates, as follows: Mrs.
                    Skilligan and Mrs. Winkle. Each of these estimable Ladies had a kind of an inward Hunch that she
                    could revive Memories of Mary Anderson and leave Maude Adams somewhere back of the Flag. Mrs.
                    Skilligan was tall, fibrous, and weighed 108 when in Condition. She had a Daughter who was a
                    Sophomore, and that was why some of her Enemies said that she was too for along to look the Part of
                    Juliet. Just the same, Mrs.  Skilligan wanted a Whack at
                    it, for what she lacked in Looks and Youthfulness, she could make up in Jewelry. So she began to lay
                    her Pipes and do some tall Scheming.
                In the mean time, Mrs. Winkle was studying the Lines and checking off the Names of all
                    Members who would not dare to throw her down. Mrs. Winkle could sec herself on the Balcony giving an
                    entirely new Interpretation of the Part. She had discovered certain Hidden Meanings in the Lines,
                    and she wanted to hand out the Immortal Hot. Stuff in such a Way that Folks would forget all about
                    Julia Marlowe and those other ordinary Actresses who were after the Coin, regardless of Art.
                The Stage-Manager employed by the bold Amateurs was an Ex-Legit who had lost his Voice
                    asking for Salary. He plucked up Courage and ventured to ask Mrs. Winkle-on the Measurements to be
                    the girlish Capulet.
                
                "Oh, Pickles!" quoth Mrs. Winkle. "I'm just about the
                    size of May Irwin, and she's a lovely Actress. Besides, I'll wear something Loose,
                    so that they can't see my Real Shape."
                The Stage-Manager said no more, for he needed the Money.
                The Club had a Meeting and the Lady who carried Weight for Age beat out the Anti-Fat
                    Candidate. Mrs. Winkle was elected the Ideal Juliet by a Majority of One, and some were mean enough
                    to say that she voted for Herself. As for Mamma Skilligan, she was not Put Out a Particle. Not on
                    your Facial Expression! A good many Competent Judges had told her that Shakespeare must have had her
                    in Mind when he wrote the Part, but if the Club preferred a large, coarse Creature to tackle that
                    beautiful Stuff, let it go at that!
                Just to prove that she wasn't Miffed she bought all of the lower Boxes, and on
                    the Night of the Performance she gave a Dinner-Party at which the Gentlemen proceeded to 
                    
                        
                            The Large White Mass up onthe Shelf.
                        
                    
                     tea up and roast the Large Party, in spite of anything
                    she could say to choke them off. Along about 9 o'clock she said it was time to do down and
                    watch the Balloon go up.
                The Push landed in at the Opera-House just in time to break up the Scene in which the
                    Child Sweetheart sighs and wonders where Romeo is. The whole Outfit came into the Boxes and upset
                    Chairs and begged everybody else to take the front Seats and called for Programmes. By the time they
                    settled down and got ready to kid the Performance, the large White Mass up on the Shelf
                    didn't know whether she was playing Juliet or Bridge Whist. She got twisted on her Lines,
                    so that Romeo, with the lied Mustaches, skipped a couple of Speeches. Then the Moon shifted a few
                    Feet and the Balcony squeaked and promised to give way, and some one in the Skilligan Party made a
                    low Crack that started a Giggle. Juliet lasted, but she was too Pink for Words.
                
                
                    
                        Romeo Skipped a Couple of Speeches.
                    
                
                
                Then Mrs. Skilligan said she was sorry for the Poor Thing, for it really wasn't
                    her Fault, as she hail been bunkoed into thinking she was Good.
                Juliet had 8 Curtain Tails, or two more than Melon's Record, and before the
                    Night was over she received so many Flowers and was complimented so often by those who came up to
                    her little Supper-Party that she had a good Notion to leave Winkle and go and work for Charley
                    Frohman. In fact, at 3 A.M. she was ready to make Affidavit that she had Virginia Harned, Maxine
                    Elliott, and Mary Mannering thrown hack into the Chorus.
                Next Day the Paper said that she was Great, and she took 200 Extra Copies and read them
                    all herself and then sent a few to the Skilligans.
                About a month after that Mrs. Skilligan gave a Fancy-Dress Ball, with Costumes all the
                    Way from St. Louis, and three kinds of Punch on the Dining-Room Table. Lady Skilligan did Queen
                    Elizabeth, with $80,000  worth of Rock Crystals hanging
                    to her. Mrs. Winkle came, for fear People might think she cherished some Animosity against her
                    crushed and fallen Rival, and when she sized up against the Hostess she fell backward and took the
                    Count, for she was only a Dresden Shepherdess.
                She went home and began to whet her Axe, and the first Thing any one-knew she had the U.
                    S. Senator right up at, her House and a few Friends in to see him Eat and no Skilligans in the List.
                Then the Carpenters at Work enlarging the Skilligan House and a Grand Reception with
                    imported Music and no Winkles there to hear it.
                After which a quiet Evening at the Winkles and the Souvenirs costing $18 per. In due Time
                    a private Vaudeville at the Skilligans and Expense cutting no Figure, the same as at Newport.
                Then two Men meeting at the Court-House, where the Bankruptcy Papers are fixed up. They
                    silently shook Hands, and  then Skilligan said to Winkle,
                    "It's n Dead Heat."
                
                    MORAL: The Men are always the first to Quit.
            
                THE END
                
        
    
