
     ----CITATION---- 
        Eggleston, George Cary, 1839-1911. A Captain in the Ranks: A Romance of Affairs: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2332
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                A CAPTAIN IN THE RANKS
                
            
            
            
                
                    "EXCITING, FASCINATING."
                    
                        Chicago Evening Post.
                    
                
                Running The River
                A Story of Adventure and Success
                By George Cary Eggleston Author of "Dorothy South,"
                    "The Bale Marked Circle X, "The Last of The Flat
                    Boats," etc.
                
                    "No better boy's book has ever been written."
                    
                        Newark Advertiser.
                    
                
                
                    "Exciting, fascinating."
                    
                        Chicago Evening Post.
                    
                
                
                    "A story any healthy young American will enjoy."
                    
                        Phila. Ledger.
                    
                
                
                    "The adventures of the characters are accompanied by fascinating sketches of
                        actual life and historic happenings."
                    
                        St. Louis Globe-Democrat.
                    
                
                
                    12mo, cloth. Illustrated. 1.50
                
                A. S. BARNES &, CO.
            
            
            
                
                    "YOU HAVE SAVED THE RAILROAD!"
                    Page 336
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    A CAPTAIN IN THE RANKS
                    
                        A Romance of Affairs
                    
                
                BY
                    GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON Authour of
                    "Dorothy South," Running the River" ETC.
                
                    With Frontispiece by CHARLES D. WILLIAMS
                
                
                    NEW YORK
                    A. S. BARNES & CO.
                    MDCCCCIV
                
            
            
            
                Copyright, 1904, BY A.S. BARNES
                    & Co.
                
                    October
                
            
            
            
                TO Mable
                    On her wedding day, I dedicate this story with
                    affection
                
                September 8, 1904
            
            
            
                PREFACE
                THIS story is intended to supplement the trilogy of romances in which I have endeavored
                    to show forth the Virginian character under varying conditions.
                "Dorothy South" dealt with Virginia life and character before the
                    Confederate war.
                "The Master of Warlock" had to do with the Virginians during the early
                    years of the war, when their struggle seemed hopeful of success.
                "Evelyn Byrd" was a study of the same people as they confronted certain
                    disaster and defeat.
                The present story is meant to complete the picture. It deals with that wonderful
                    upbuilding of the great West which immediately followed the war, and in which the best of the young
                    Virginians played an important part.
                The personages of the story are real, and its events are mainly facts, thinly veiled.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I THE FINAL
                            FIGHT
                        1
                        
                    II ALONE
                        IN
                        THE HIGH MOUNTAIN
                        18
                        
                    III THE NEW
                            BIRTH
                        OF MANHOOD
                        29
                        
                    IV A PRIVATE
                        IN
                        THE ARMY
                        OF WORK
                        38
                        
                    V THE BEGINNING
                        OF
                        A CAREER
                        42
                        
                    VI A CAPTAIN
                        IN
                        THE ARMY
                        OF WORK
                        48
                        
                    VII THE "SIZING UP" OF
                            GUILFORD DUNCAN
                        59
                        
                    VIII ON DUTY
                        64
                        
                    IX ONE NIGHT's WORK
                        70
                        
                    X ALLIANCE OFFENSIVE
                        AND DEFENSIVE
                        87
                        
                    XI THE WAYS
                        OF GUILFORD DUNCAN
                        100
                        
                    XII BARBARA VERNE
                        107
                        
                    XIII A BATTLE
                        AND
                        AN ACQUAINTANCE
                        119
                        
                    XIV A SOCIAL ADVANCE
                        129
                        
                    XV THE COMING
                            OUT
                        OF BARBARA
                        141
                        
                    XVI A NEW ENEMY
                        146
                        
                    XVII AN OLD
                            FRIEND
                        160
                        
                    XVIII DICK TEMPLE's PLANS
                        168
                        
                    XIX DICK TEMPLE's STORY
                        175
                        
                    XX IN
                        THE SUMMER TIME
                        181
                        
                    XXI AN INTERVIEW
                        WITH NAPPER TANDY
                        188
                        
                    XXII UNDER
                        THE HONEYSUCKLES
                        198
                        
                    XXIII CAPTAIN WILL HALLAM
                        IN
                        THE GAME
                        202
                        
                    
                    XXIV BARBARA's ANSWER
                        214
                        
                    XXV TEMPLE
                        AND TANDY
                        224
                        
                    XXVI A PACT
                        WITH BARBARA
                        242
                        
                    XXVII MRS. HALLAM HEARS NEWS
                        254
                        
                    XXVIII THE BIRTH
                        OF A GREAT RAILORD
                        265
                        
                    XXIX A SCRAP
                        OF PAPER
                        274
                        
                    XXX THE MYSTERY
                        OF TANDY
                        285
                        
                    XXXI ONLY
                        A WOMAN
                        293
                        
                    XXXII THE RIDDLE EXPLAINED
                        298
                        
                    XXXIII AT CRISIS
                        304
                        
                    XXXIV A CHEER
                        FOR LITTLE MISSIE
                        316
                        
                    XXXV THE END
                        OF
                        A STRUGGLE
                        323
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                A CAPTAIN IN THE RANKS
                
                    I
                    THE FINAL FIGHT
                    
                    
                    THE slender remnant of Lee's artillery swung slowly into position a few
                        miles west of Appomattox Court House. Wearilybut with spirit stillthe batteries parked their
                        guns in a field facing a strip of woodland. The guns were few in number now, but they were all
                        that was left of those that had done battle on a score of historic fields.
                    Lee had been forced out of his works at Richmond and Petersburg a week before. Ever
                        since, with that  calm courage which had sustained him
                        throughout the later and losing years of the war, he had struggled and battled in an effort to
                        retreat to the Roanoke River. He had hoped there to unite the remnant of his army with what was
                        left of Johnston's force, and to make there a final and desperate stand.
                    In this purpose he had been baffled. Grant's forces were on his southern
                        flank, and they had steadily pressed him back toward the James River on the north. In that
                        direction there was no thoroughfare for him. Neither was there now in any other. Continual
                        battling had depleted his army until it numbered now scarcely more than ten thousand men all
                        told, and starvation had weakened these so greatly that only the heroism of despair enabled them
                        to fight or to march at all.
                    The artillery that was parked out there in front of Appomattox Court House was only a
                        feeble remnant of that which had fought so long and so determinedly. Gun after gun had been
                        captured. Gun after gun had been dismounted in battle struggle. Caisson after caisson had been
                        blown up by the explosion of shells striking them.
                    Captain Guilford Duncan, at the head of eleven mounted men, armed only with sword and
                        pistols, paused before entering the woodlands in front. He looked about in every direction, and,
                        with an eye educated by long experience in war, he observed the absence of infantry support.
                    
                    He turned to Sergeant Garrett, who rode by his side, and said sadly:
                    "Garrett, this means surrender. General Lee has put his artillery here to be
                        captured. The end has come."
                    Then dismounting, he wearily threw himself upon the ground, chewed and swallowed a
                        few grains of corn, the only rations he had, and sought a brief respite of sleep. But before
                        closing his eyes he turned to Garrett and gave the command:
                    "Post a sentinel and order him to wake us when Sheridan comes."
                    This command brought questions from the men about him. They were privates and he was
                        their captain, it is true, but the Southern army was democratic, and these men were accustomed
                        to speak with their captain with eyes on a level with his own.
                    "Why do you say, 'when Sheridan comes'?" asked
                        one of Duncan's command.
                    "Oh, he will come, of courseand quickly. That is the program. This artillery
                        has been posted here to be captured. And it will be captured within an hour or two at furthest,
                        perhaps within a few minutes, for Sheridan is sleepless and his force is not only on our flank,
                        but in front of us. There is very little left of the Army of Northern Virginia. It can fight no
                        more. It is going to surrender here, but in the meantime there may be a tidy little scrimmage in
                        this strip of woods, and I for one want to have my share  in it. Now let me go to sleep and wake me when Sheridan comes."
                    In a minute the captain was asleep. So were all his men except the sentinel posted to
                        do the necessary waking.
                    That came all too quickly, for at this juncture in the final proceedings of the war
                        Sheridan was vigorously carrying out Grant's laconic instruction to "press
                        things." When the sentinel waked the captain, Sheridan's lines were less than
                        fifty yards in front and were pouring heavy volleys into the unsupported Confederate artillery
                        park.
                    Guilford Duncan and his men were moved to no excitement by this situation. Their
                        nerves had been schooled to steadiness and their minds to calm under any conceivable
                        circumstances by four years of vastly varied fighting. Without the slightest hurry they mounted
                        their horses in obedience to Duncan's brief command. He led them at once into the
                        presence of Colonel Cabell, whose battalion of artillery lay nearest to him. As they sat upon
                        their horses in the leaden hailstorm, with countenances as calm as if they had been entering a
                        drawing room, Duncan touched his cap to Colonel Cabell and said:
                    "Colonel, I am under nobody's orders here. I have eleven men with
                        me, all of them, as you know, as good artillerymen as there are in the army. Can you let us
                        handle some guns for you?"
                    "No," answered Colonel Cabell; "I have lost so  many guns already that I have twenty men to each
                        piece." Then, after a moment's pause, he added:
                    "You, Captain, cannot fail to understand what all this means."
                    "I quite understand that, Colonel," answered Duncan, "but
                        as I was in at the beginning of this war, I have a strong desire to be in at the end of
                        it."
                    The Colonel's cannon were firing vigorously by this time at the rate of six
                        or eight shots to the minute from each gun, but he calmly looked over the little party on
                        horseback and responded:
                    "You have some good horses there, and this is April. You will need your
                        horses in your farming operations. You had better take them and your men out of here. You can do
                        no good by staying. This fight is a formality pure and simple, a preliminary to the final
                        surrender."
                    "Then you order me to withdraw?" asked Duncan.
                    "Yes, certainly, and peremptorily if you wish, though you are not under my
                        command," answered Colonel Cabell. "It is the best thing you can do for
                        yourself, for your men, for your horses, and for the country."
                    Duncan immediately obeyed the order, in a degree at least. He promptly withdrew his
                        men to the top of a little hillock in the rear and there watched the progress of the final
                        fight. His nerves were all a-quiver. He was a young man, twenty-five years  old perhaps, full of vigor, full of enthusiasm, full of fight. He was a
                        trifle less than six feet high, with a lithe and symmetrical body, lean almost to emaciation by
                        reason of arduous service and long starvation. He had a head that instantly attracted attention
                        by its unusual size and its statuesque shape. He was bronzed almost to the complexion of a
                        mulatto, but without any touch of yellow in the bronze. He was dark by nature, of intensely
                        nervous temperament, and obviously a man capable of enormous determination and unfaltering
                        endurance.
                    He had not yet lost the instinct of battle, and it galled him that he must sit idly
                        there on his horse, with his men awaiting his orders, simply observing a fight in which he
                        strongly desired to participate. He could see the Federal lines gradually closing in upon both
                        flanks of the artillery, with the certainty that they must presently envelop and capture it.
                        Seasoned soldier that he was, he could not endure the thought of standing still while such a
                        work of war was going on.
                    Seeing the situation he turned to his men, who were armed only with swords and
                        pistols, and in a voice so calm that it belied his impulse, he said to them:
                    "This is our last chance for a fight, boys. I am going into the middle of
                        that mix! Anybody who choose to follow me can come along!"
                    Every man in that little company of eleven had two pistols in his saddle holsters and
                        two upon his hips,  and every man carried in addition a
                        heavy cavalry saber capable of doing execution at close quarters. They were gentlemen soldiers,
                        all. The cause for which they had battled for four long years was as dear to them now as it ever
                        had been. More important still, their courage was as unflinching in this obvious climax and
                        catastrophe of the war they had waged, as it had been at Bull Run in the beginning of that
                        struggle, or in the Seven Days' Fight, or at Fredericksburg, or Chancellorsville, or
                        Gettysburg, or Cold Harbor. Duncan had not doubted their response for one moment, and he was not
                        disappointed in the vigor with which they followed him as he led them into this final fight. As
                        they dashed forward their advance was quickly discovered by the alert enemy, and a destructive
                        fire of carbines was opened upon them. At that moment they were at the trot. Instantly Duncan
                        gave the commands:
                    "Gallop! Charge!"
                    With that demoniacal huntsman's cry which is known in history as the
                        "Rebel Yell," the little squad dashed forward and plunged into the far heavier
                        lines of the enemy. There was a detached Federal gun there doing its work. It was a superb
                        twelve-pounder, and Duncan's men quickly captured it with its limber-chest. Instantly
                        dismounting, and without waiting for orders from him, they turned it upon the enemy with
                        vigorous effect. But they were so fearfully over-matched in numbers that their work endured for
                             scarcely more than a minute. They fired a dozen
                        shots, perhaps, but they were speedily overwhelmed, and in another instant Duncan ordered them
                        to mount and retire again, firing Parthian shots from their pistols as they went.
                    When he again reached the little hill to which he had retired at the beginning of the
                        action, Duncan looked around him and saw that only seven of his eleven men remained. The other
                        four had paid a final tribute of their lives to what was now obviously "The Lost
                        Cause."
                    By this time the fight was over, and practically all that remained of the artillery
                        of the Army of Northern Virginia Was in possession of the enemy.
                    But that enemy was a generous one, and, foreseeing as it did the surrender that must
                        come with the morning, it made no assault upon this wandering squad of brave but beaten men, who
                        were sadly looking upon the disastrous end of the greatest war in human history.
                    Captain Duncan's party were on a bald hill within easy range of the carbines
                        of Sheridan's men, but not a shot was fired at them, and not so much as a squad was
                        sent out to demand their surrender.
                    Night was now near at hand and Guilford Duncan turned to his men and said:
                    "The war is practically over, I suppose; but I for one intend to stick to
                        the game as long as it lasts. General Lee will surrender his army to-night or tomorrow  morning, but General Johnston still has an army in the
                        field in North Carolina. It is barely possible that we may get to him. It is my purpose to try.
                        How many of you want to go with me?"
                    The response was instantaneous and unanimous.
                    "We'll all stick by you, Captain, 'till the cows come
                        home,'" they cried.
                    "Very well," he answered. "We must march to James River
                        to-night and cross it. We must make our way into the mountains and through Lynchburg, if
                        possible, into North Carolina. We'll try, anyhow."
                    All night long they marched. They secured some coarse food-stuffs at a mill which
                        they passed on their way up into the mountains. There for a week they struggled to make their
                        way southward, fighting now and then, not with Federal troops, for there were none there, but
                        with marauders. These were the offscourings of both armies, and of the negro population of that
                        region. They made themselves the pests of Virginia at that time. Their little bands consisted of
                        deserters from both armies, dissolute negroes, and all other kinds of "lewd fellows of
                        the baser sort." They raided plantations. They stole horses. They terrorized women.
                        They were a thorn in the flesh of General Grant's officers, who were placed in
                        strategic positions to prevent the possible occurrence of a guerrilla warfare, and who therefore
                        could not scatter their forces for the policing of a land left desolate and absolutely lawless.
                    
                    In many parts of the country which were left without troops to guard them, at a time
                        when no civil government existed, these marauders played havoc in an extraordinary way. But the
                        resoluteness of General Grant's administration soon suppressed them. Whenever he caught
                        them he hanged or shot them without mercy, and with small consideration for formalities. In the
                        unprotected districts he authorized the ex-Confederates, upon their promise to lend aid against
                        the inauguration of guerrilla warfare, to suppress them on their own account, and they did so
                        relentlessly.
                    During the sojourn in the mountains, in his effort to push his way through to
                        Johnston, Guilford Duncan came upon a plantation where only women were living in the mansion
                        house. A company of these marauders had taken possession of the plantation, occupying its negro
                        cabins and terrorizing the population of the place. When Duncan rode up with his seven armed men
                        he instantly took command and assumed the rle of protector. First
                        of all he posted his men as sentries for the protection of the plantation homestead. Next he
                        sent out scouts, including a number of trusty negroes who belonged upon the plantation, to find
                        out where the marauders were located, and what their numbers were, and what purpose they might
                        seem bent upon. From the reports of these scouts he learned that the marauders exceeded him in
                        force by three to one, or more, but that fact  in no
                        way appalled him. During a long experience in war he had learned well the lesson that numbers
                        count for less than morale, and that with skill and resoluteness a small force may easily
                        overcome and destroy a larger one.
                    He knew now that his career as a Confederate soldier was at an end. Federal troops
                        had occupied Lynchburg and all the region round about, thus completely cutting him off from any
                        possibility of reaching General Johnston in North Carolina. He had no further mission as a
                        military officer of the Southern Confederacy, but as a mere man of courage and vigor he had
                        before him the duty of defending the women and children of this Virginia plantation against
                        about the worst and most desperate type of highwaymen who ever organized themselves into a force
                        for purpose of loot and outrage.
                    He sent at once for the best negroes on the plantationthe negroes who had proved
                        themselves loyal in their affection for their mistresses throughout the war. Having assembled
                        these he inquired of the women what arms and ammunition they had. There were the usual number of
                        shotguns belonging to a plantation, and a considerable supply of powder and buckshot. Duncan
                        assembled the negroes in the great hall of the plantation house and said to them:
                    "I have seven men here, all armed and all fighters. I have arms enough for
                        you boys if you are willing to join me in the defense of the ladies on this plantation  against about the worst set of scoundrels that ever
                        lived on earth."
                    Johnny, the head dining-room servant, speaking for all the rest, replied:
                    "In co'se we is. Jest you lead us, mahstah, and you'll see
                        how we'll do de wu'k."
                    Then Duncan armed the negroes, every one of whom knew how to use a gun, so that he
                        needed not instruct them, and he led them forth with his own seasoned soldiers at their head.
                    "Now then," he said, "we are going to attack these
                        fellows, and you know perfectly well that they are a lot of cowards, and sneaks, and scoundrels.
                        If we are all resolute we can whip them out of their boots within a few minutes. Either we must
                        do that, or they will whip us out of our boots and destroy us. I do not think there is much
                        doubt about which is going to whip. Come along, boys."
                    The marauders had established themselves in four or five of the negro quarters on the
                        plantation, and in a certain sense they were strongly fortified. That is to say, they were
                        housed in cabins built of logs too thick for any bullet to penetrate them. Four of these cabins
                        were so placed that a fire from the door and the windows of either of them would completely
                        command the entrance of each of the others. But to offset that, and to offset also the
                        superiority of numbers which the marauders enjoyed, Guilford Duncan decided upon an attack by
                        night. He knew that he  was outnumbered by two or
                        three to one, even if he counted the willing but untrained negroes whom he had enlisted in this
                        service. But he did not despair of success. It was his purpose to dislodge the marauders in a
                        night attack, when he knew that they could not see to shoot with effect. He knew also that
                        "He is thrice armed who knows his quarrel just."
                    Cautioning his men to maintain silence, and to advance as quickly as possible, he got
                        them into position and suddenly rushed upon the first of the four or five negro quarters.
                        Knowing that the door of this house would be barricaded, he had instructed some of the negroes
                        to bring a pole with them which might be used as a battering ram. With a rush but without any
                        hurrah,for Duncan had ordered quiet as a part of his plan of campaign,the negroes carried the
                        great pole forward and instantly crushed in the door. Within ten seconds afterwards
                        Duncan's ex-Confederate soldiers, with their pistols in use, were within the house, and
                        the company of marauders there surrenderedthose of them who had not fallen before the pistol
                        shots. This first flush of victory encouraged the negroes under his command so far that what had
                        been their enthusiasm became a positive battle-madness. Without waiting for orders from him they
                        rushed with their battering ram upon the other houses occupied by the marauders, as did also his
                        men, who were not accustomed to follow, but rather to lead, and within a few minutes all of
                        those negro huts were in  his possession, and all
                        their occupants were in effect his prisoners.
                    At this moment Guilford Duncan, who had now no legal or military authority over his
                        men, lost control of them. Both the negroes and the white men seemed to go mad. They recognized
                        in the marauders no rights of a military kind, no title to be regarded as fighting men, and no
                        conceivable claim upon their conquerors' consideration. Both the negroes and the white
                        men were merciless in their slaughter of the marauding highwaymen. Once, in the mle, Guilford Duncan endeavored to check their enthusiasm as a barbarity,
                        but his men responded in quick, bullet-like words, indicating their idea that these men were not
                        soldiers entitled to be taken prisoners, but were beasts of prey, rattlesnakes, mad dogs,
                        enemies of the human race, whose extermination it was the duty of every honest man to seek and
                        to accomplish as quickly as possible.
                    This thought was conveyed rather in ejaculations than in statements made, and
                        Guilford Duncan saw that there was neither time nor occasion for argument. The men under his
                        command felt that they were engaged in defending the lives and the honor of women and children,
                        and they were in no degree disposed to hesitate at slaughter where so precious a purpose
                        inspired them. Their attitude of mind was uncompromising. Their resolution was unalterable.
                        Their impulse was to kill, and their victims were  men
                        of so despicable a kind that after a moment's thought Guilford Duncan's
                        impulse was to let his men alone.
                    The contest lasted for a very brief while. The number of the slaughtered in
                        proportion to the total number of men engaged was appalling. But this was not all. To it was
                        immediately added the hasty hanging of men to the nearest trees, and Guilford Duncan was
                        powerless to prevent that. The negroes, loyal to the mistresses whom they had served from
                        infancy, had gone wild in their enthusiasm of defense. They ran amuck, and when the morning came
                        there was not one man of all those marauders left alive to tell the story of the conflict.
                    In the meanwhile Guilford Duncan, by means of his men, had gathered information in
                        every direction. He knew now that all hope was gone of his joining Johnston's army,
                        even if that army had not surrendered, as by this time it probably had done. He therefore
                        brought his men together. Most of them lived in those mountains round about, or in the lower
                        country east of them, and so he said to them:
                    "Men, the war is over. Most of you, as I understand it, live somewhere near
                        here, or within fifty miles of here. As the last order that I shall ever issue as a captain, I
                        direct you now to return to your homes at once. My advice to you is to go to work and rebuild
                        your fortunes as best you can. We've  had our
                        last fight. We've done our duty like men. We must now do the best that we can for
                        ourselves under extremely adverse circumstances. Go home. Cultivate your fields. Take care of
                        your families, and be as good citizens in peace as you have been good soldiers in war."
                    There was a hurried consultation among the men. Presently Sergeant Garrett spoke for
                        the rest and said:
                    "We will not go home. Captain Duncan, until each one of us has written
                        orders from you to do so. Some of us fellows have children in our homes, and the rest of us may
                        have children hereafter. We want them to know, as the years go by, that we did not desert our
                        cause, even in its dying hours, that we did not quit the army until we were ordered to quit. We
                        ask of you, for each of us, a written order to go home, or to go wherever else you may order us
                        to go."
                    The Captain fully understood the loyalty of feeling which underlay this request, and
                        he promptly responded to it. Taking from his pocket a number of old letters and envelopes, he
                        searched out whatever scraps there might be of blank paper. Upon these scraps he issued to each
                        man of his little company a peremptory order to return to his home, with an added statement in
                        the case of each that he had "served loyally, bravely, and well, even unto the
                        end."
                    That night, before their final parting, the little  company slept together in the midst of a cluster of pine trees, with only one
                        sentry on duty.
                    The next day came the parting. The captain, with tears dimming his vision, shook
                        hands with each of his men in turn, saying to each, with choking utterance: "Good-by!
                        God bless you!"
                    Then the spokesman of the men, Sergeant Garrett, asked:
                    Are you going home, Captain Duncan?"
                    For twenty seconds the young Captain stared at his men, making no answer. Then,
                        mastering himself, and speaking as one dazed, he replied:
                    "Home? Home? On all God's earth I have no home!"
                    Instantly he put spurs to his horse, half unconsciously turning toward the sunset.
                    A moment later lie vanished from view, over the crest of a hill.
                
                
                
                    II
                    ALONE IN THE HIGH
                            MOUNTAINS
                    
                    THE young man rode long and late that night. His way lay always upward toward the
                        crests of the high mountains of the Blue Ridge Range.
                    The roads he traversed were scarcely more than trailstoo steep in their ascent to
                        have been traveled by wagons that might wear them into thoroughfares. During the many hours of
                        his riding he saw no sign of human habitation anywhere, and no prospect of finding food for
                        himself or his horse, though both were famishing.
                    About midnight, however, ho came upon a bit of wild pasture land on a steep mountain
                        side, where his horse at least might crop the early grass of the spring. There he halted,
                        removed his saddle and bridle, and turned the animal loose, saying:
                    "Poor beast! You will not stray far away. There's half an acre of
                        grass here with bare rocks all around it. Your appetite will be leash enough to keep you from
                        wandering."
                    Then the young manno longer a captain now, but  a destitute, starving wanderer on the face of the earth threw himself upon a
                        carpet of pine needles in a little clump of timber, made a pillow of his saddle, drew the saddle
                        blanket over his shoulders to keep out the night chill, loosened his belt, and straightway fell
                        asleep.
                    Before doing so, however,faint with hunger as he was, and weary to the verge of
                        collapse,he had a little ceremony to perform, and he performed it in answer to a sentimental
                        fancy. With the point of his sword he found an earth-bank free of rock, and dug a trench there.
                        In it he placed his sword in its scabbard and with its belt and sword-knot attached. Then
                        drawing the earth over it and stamping it down, he said:
                    "That ends the soldier chapter of my life. I must turn to the work of peace
                        now. I have no fireplace over which to hang the trusty blade. It is better to bury it here in
                        the mountains in the midst of desolation, and forever to forget all that it suggests."
                    When he waked in the morning a soaking, persistent, pitiless rain was falling. The
                        young man's clothing was so completely saturated that, as he stood erect, the water
                        streamed from his elbows, and he felt it trickling down his body and his legs.
                    "This is a pretty good substitute for a bath," he thought, as he
                        removed his garments, and with strong, nervous hands, wrung the water out of them as laundresses
                        do with linen.
                    
                    He had no means of kindling a fire, and there was no time for that at any rate.
                        Guilford Duncan had begun to feel the pangs not of mere hunger, but of actual starvationthe
                        pains that mean collapse and speedy death. He knew that he must find food for himself and that
                        quickly. Otherwise he must die there, helpless and alone, on the desolate mountain side.
                    He might, indeed, kill his horse and live for a few days upon its flesh, until it
                        should spoil. But such relief would be only a postponing of the end, and without the horse he
                        doubted that he could travel far toward that western land which he had half unwittingly fixed
                        upon as his goal.
                    He was well up in the mountains now, and near the crest of the great range. The
                        Valley lay beyond, and he well knew that he would find no food supplies in that region when he
                        should come to cross it. Sheridan had done a perfect work of war there, so devastating one of
                        the most fruitful regions on all God's earth that in picturesque words he had said:
                        "The crow that flies over the Valley of Virginia must carry his rations with
                        him."
                    In the high mountains matters were not much better. There had been no battling up
                        there in the land of the sky, but the scars and the desolation of war were manifest even upon
                        mountain sides and mountain tops.
                    For four years the men who dwelt in the rude log  cabins of that frost-bitten and sterile region had been serving as volunteers
                        in the army, fighting for a cause which was none of theirs and which they did not at all
                        understand or try to understand. They fought upon instinct alone. It had always been the custom
                        of the mountain dwellers to shoulder their guns and go into the thick of every fray which seemed
                        to them in any way to threaten their native land. They went blindly, they fought desperately,
                        and they endured manfully. Ignorant, illiterate, abjectly poor, inured to hardship through
                        generations, they asked no questions the answers to which they could not understand. It was
                        enough for them to know that their native land was invaded by an armed foe. Whenever that
                        occurred they were ready to meet force with force, and to do their humble mightiest to drive
                        that foe away or to destroy him, without asking even who he was.
                    It had been so in all the Indian wars and in the Revolutionary struggle, and it was
                        so again in the war between the States. As soon as the call to arms was issued, these sturdy
                        mountaineers almost to a man abandoned their rocky and infertile fields to the care of their
                        womankind and went to war, utterly regardless of consequences to themselves.
                    During this last absence of four years their homes had fallen into fearful
                        desolation. Those homes were log cabins, chinked and daubed, mostly having earthen floors and
                        chimneys built of sticks thickly plastered with mud. But humble as they were, they were homes
                             and they held the wives and children whom these
                        men loved.
                    All that was primitive in American life survived without change in the high mountains
                        of Virginia and the Carolinas. In the Piedmont country east of the Blue Ridge, and in the
                        tide-water country beyond, until the war came there were great plantations, where wealthy, or
                        well-to-do, and highly educated planters lived in state with multitudinous slaves to till their
                        fertile fields.
                    West of the Blue Ridge and between that range and the Alleghenies lay the Valley of
                        Virginia, a land as fruitful as Canaan itself.
                    In that Valley there dwelt in simple but abundant plenty the sturdy
                        "Dutchmen," as they were improperly called,men of German descent,who had
                        pushed their settlements southward from Pennsylvania along the Valley, establishing themselves
                        in the midst of fertile fields, owning few slaves, and tilling their own lands, planting
                        orchards everywhere, and building not only their houses, but their barns and all their
                        outbuildings stoutly of the native stone that lay ready to their hands.
                    That region was now as barren as Sahara by reason of the devastation that Sheridan
                        had inflicted upon it with the deliberate and merciless strategic purpose of rendering it
                        uninhabitable and in that way making of it a no-thoroughfare for Confederate armies on march
                        toward the country north of the  Potomac, or on the
                        way to threaten Washington City.
                    The little mountain homesteads had been spared this devastation. But their case was
                        not much better than that of the more prosperous plantations on the cast, or that of the richly
                        fruitful Valley farms on the west. In war it is not "the enemy" alone who lays
                        waste. Such little cribs and granaries and smoke houses as these poor mountain dwellers owned
                        had been despoiled of their stores to feed the armies in the field. Their boys, even those as
                        young as fourteen, had been drawn into the army. Their hogs, their sheep, and the few milch cows
                        they possessed, had been taken away from them. Their scanty oxen had been converted into army
                        beef, and those of them who owned a horse or a mule had been compelled to surrender the animal
                        for military use, receiving in return only Confederate treasury notes, now worth no more than so
                        much of waste paper.
                    Nevertheless Guilford Duncan perfectly understood that he must look to the
                        impoverished people of the high mountains for a food supply in this his sore extremity.
                        Therefore, instead of crossing the range by way of any of the main-traveled passes, he pushed
                        his grass-refreshed steed straight up Mount Pleasant to its topmost heights.
                    There, about noon, he came upon a lonely cabin whose owner had reached home from the
                        war only a day or two earlier.
                    
                    There was an air of desolation and decay about the place, but knowing the ways of the
                        mountaineers the young man did not despair of securing some food there. For even when the
                        mountaineer is most prosperous his fences are apt to be down, his roof out of repair, and all
                        his surroundings to wear the look of abandonment in despair.
                    Duncan began by asking for dinner for himself and his horse, and the response was
                        what he expected in that land of poverty-stricken but always generous hospitality.
                    "Ain't got much to offer you, Cap'n',"
                        said the owner, "but sich as it is you're welcome."
                    Meanwhile he had given the horse a dozen ears of corn, saying:
                    "Reckon 't won't hurt him. He don't look
                        's if he' d been a feedin' any too hearty an' I reckon a
                        dozen ears won't founder him."
                    For dinner there was a scanty piece of bacon, boiled with wild mustard plants for
                        greens, and some pones of corn bread.
                    To Guilford Duncan, in his starving condition, this seemed a veritable feast. The
                        eating of it so far refreshed him that he cheerfully answered all the questions put to him by
                        his shirt-sleeved host.
                    It is a tradition in Virginia that nobody can ask so many questions as a
                        "Yankee," and yet there was never a people so insistently given to asking
                        questions of a purely and impertinently personal character as  were the Virginians of anything less than the higher and gentler class. They
                        questioned a guest, not so much because of any idle curiosity concerning his affairs, as because
                        of a friendly desire to manifest interest in him and in what might concern him.
                    "What mout your name be, Cap'n?" the host began, as they
                        sat at dinner.
                    "My name is Guilford Duncan," replied the young man. "But
                        I am not a Captain now. I'm only a very poor young mangreatly poorer than you are, for
                        at least you own a home and a little piece of the mountain top, while I own no inch of
                        God's earth or anything else except my horse, my four pistols, my saddle and bridle and
                        the clothes I wear."
                    "What's your plan? Goin' to settle in the mountings? They
                        say there'll be big money in 'stillin' whisky an' not
                        a-payin' of the high tax on it. It's a resky business, or will be, when the
                        Yanks get their-selves settled down into possession, like; but I kin see you're game
                        fer resks, an' ef you want a workin' pardner, I'm your man.
                        There's a water power just a little way down the mounting, in a valley that one good
                        man with a rifle kin defend."
                    "Thank you for your offer," answered Duncan. "But
                        I'm not thinking of settling in the mountains. I'm going to the West, if I can
                        get there. Now, to do that, I must cross the Valley, and I must have some provisions. Can you
                        sell me a side of bacon, a little bag of meal, and a little salt?"
                    
                    "What kin you pay with, Mister?"
                    "Well, I have no money, of course, except worthless Confederate paper, but I
                        have two pairs of Colt's 'Navy Six' revolvers, and I'd be
                        glad to give you one pair of them for my dinner, my horse's feed, and the provisions I
                        have mentioned."
                    "Now look-a-here, Mister," broke in the mountaineer, rising and
                        straightening himself to his full height of six feet four. "When you come to my door
                        you was mighty hungry. You axed fer a dinner an' a hoss feed, an'
                        I've done give 'em to you, free, gratis, an' fer nothin'. No
                        man on the face o' God's yearth kin say as how he ever come to Si
                        Watkins's house in need of a dinner an' a hoss feed 'thout a
                        gittin' both. An' no man kin say as how Si Watkins ever took a cent
                        o' pay fer a entertainin' of angels unawares as the preachers says.
                        Them's my Principles, an' when you offer to pay
                        fer a dinner an' a hoss feed, you insults my principles."
                    "I sincerely beg your pardon," answered Duncan hurriedly.
                        "I am very grateful indeed for your hospitality, and as a Virginian I heartily
                        sympathize with your sentiment about not taking pay for food and lodging, but"
                    "That's all right, Mister. You meant fa'r an'
                        squa'r. But you know how it is. Chargin' fer a dinner an' a hoss feed
                        is low down Yankee business. Tavern keepers does it, too, but Si Watkins ain't no
                        tavern keeper an' he ain't no Yankee, neither. So  that's the end o' that little skirmish. But when it comes
                        to furnishin' you with a side o' bacon an' some meal an'
                        salt, that's more differenter. That's business. There's mighty little
                        meal an' mighty few sides o' bacon in these here parts, but I don't
                        mind a-tellin' you as how my wife's done managed to hide a few sides
                        o' bacon an' a little meal from the fellers what come up here to collect the
                        tax in kind. One of 'em found her hidin' place one day, an' was jest
                        a-goin' to confisticate the meat when, with the sperrit of a woman, that's in
                        her as big as a house, she drawed a bead on him an' shot him. He was carried down the
                        mounting by his men, an' p'r'aps he's done got well. I
                        don't know an' I keers less. Anyhow, we's done got a few sides
                        o' bacon an' a big bag o' meal an' a bushel o'
                        salt. Ef you choose to take one o' them sides o' bacon, an' a little
                        meal an' salt, an' give me one o' your pistols, I'm quite
                        agreeable. The gun mout come in handy when I git a little still a-goin', down there in
                        the holler."
                    "I'll do better than that," answered Duncan.
                        "I'll give you a pair of the pistols, as I said."
                    "Hold on! Go a leetle slow, Mister, an' don't forgit
                        nothin'. You preposed to gimme the p'ar o' pistols fer the bacon
                        an' meal an' salt, an' fer yer dinner
                        an' hoss feed. I've done tole you as how Si Watkins don't never take
                        no pay fer a dinner an' a hoss feed. So you can't offer me the p'ar
                        o' pistols 'thout offerin' to pay fer yer entertainment  of man an' beast, an' I
                        won't have that, I tell you."
                    "Very well," answered Duncan; "I didn't mean
                        that. I'll give you one of the pistols in payment for the supply of provisions. That
                        will end the business part of the matter. Now, I'm going to do something else with the
                        other pistolthe mate of that one."
                    With that he opened his pocket knife and scratched on the silver mounting of the
                        pistol's butt the legend: "To Si Watkins, in memory of a visit; from Guilford
                        Duncan, Cairo, Illinois."
                    Then handing the inscribed weapon to his host he said:
                    "I have a right to make you a little present, purely in the way of
                        friendship, and not as 'pay' for anything at all. I want to give you this
                        pistol, and I want you to keep it. I don't know where I am going to live and work in
                        the West, and I don't know why I wrote 'Cairo, Illinois' as my
                        address. It simply came to me to do it. Perhaps it's a good omen. Anyhow, I shall go to
                        Cairo, and if I leave there I'll arrange to have my letters forwarded to me, whereever
                        I may be. So if you're in trouble at any time you can write to me at Cairo. I am as
                        poor as you are nowyes, poorer. But I don't mean to stay poor. If you're in
                        trouble at any time, I'll do my best to see you through, just as you have seen me
                        through this time."
                
                
                
                    III
                    THE NEW BIRTH
                        OF MANHOOD
                    
                    HALF an hour later the young man resumed his journey westward, passing down the
                        farther slopes of the mountain.
                    "Wonder why I wrote 'Cairo' as my address," he
                        thought, as his trusty horse carefully picked his way among the rocks and down the steeps.
                        "I hadn't thought of Cairo before as even a possible destination. I know
                        nobody there. I know absolutely nothing about the town, or the opportunities it may offer.
                        I'm not superstitious, I think, but somehow this thing impresses me, and to Cairo I
                        shall goif only to receive Si Watkins's letter when it comes," he added with a
                        smile.
                    Then he began a more practical train of thought.
                    "I've food enough now," he reflected, "to last me
                        scantily for a few days. During that time I must make my way as far as I can toward the Ohio
                        River at Pittsburg or Wheeling or Parkersburg. When I reach the River I must have money enough
                        to pay steamboat fare to Cairo. There is no money in these parts, but West Virginia is
                        practically a Northern  State, and there are
                        greenbacks there. I'll sell my remaining pistols there. A little later I'll
                        sell my horse, my saddle, and my bridle. The horse is a good one, and so is the saddle. Surely I
                        ought to get enough for them to pay my way to Cairo."
                    Then came another and a Questioning thought:
                    "And when I get to Cairo? What then? I've a good university
                        education, but I doubt that there is a ready market for education in any bustling Mississippi
                        River town, just now. I'm a graduate in law, but Heaven knows I know very little about
                        the profession aside from the broad underlying principles. Besides, I shall have no money with
                        which to open an office, and who is going to employ a wandering and utterly destitute stranger
                        to take charge of his legal business?"
                    For the moment discouragement dominated the young man's mind. But presently
                        there came to him a reflection that gave new birth to his courage.
                    "I'm six feet high," he thought, "and broad in
                        proportion. I'm in perfect physical health. I have muscles that nothing has ever yet
                        tired. Between the wilderness and Appomattox I have had an extensive experience in shoveling
                        earth and other hard work. I'm in exceedingly good traininga trifle underfed, perhaps,
                        but at any rate I carry not one ounce of superfluous fat on my person. I am perfectly equipped
                        for the hardest kind of physical work and in a busy western town there is sure to be work enough
                             of that kind for a strong and willing man to do.
                        I can at the very least earn enough as a laborer to feed me better than I've been fed
                        for the four years of war."
                    Curiously enough, this prospect of work as a day laborer greatly cheered the young
                        man. Instead of depressing his spirits, it for the first time lifted from his soul that incubus
                        of melancholy with which every Confederate soldier of his class was at first oppressed. Ever
                        since Grant had refused in the Wildernessa year beforeto retire beyond the river after receiving
                        Lee's tremendous blows, Guilford Duncan and all Confederates of like intelligence had
                        foreseen the end and had recognized its coming as inevitable. Nevertheless, when it came in
                        fact, when the army of Northern Virginia surrendered, and when the Confederacy ceased to be, the
                        event was scarcely less shocking and depressing to their minds than if it had been an unforeseen
                        and unexpected one.
                    The melancholy that instantly took possession of such minds amounted to scarcely less
                        than insanity, and for a prolonged period it paralyzed energy and made worse the ruin that war
                        had wrought in the South.
                    Fortunately Guilford Duncan, thrown at once and absolutely upon his own resources,
                        thus quickly escaped from the overshadowing cloud.
                    And yet his case seemed worse than that of most of his comrades. They, at least, had
                        homes of some  sort to go to; he had none. There was
                        for them, debt burdened as their plantations were, at least a hope that some way out might
                        ultimately be found. For him there was no inch, of ground upon which he might rest even a hope.
                    Born of an old family he had been bred and educated as one to whom abundance was to
                        come by inheritance, a man destined from birth to become in time the master of a great
                        patrimonial estate.
                    But that estate was honeycombed with hereditary debt, the result of generations of
                        lavish living, wasteful methods of agriculture, and over-generous hospitality. About the time
                        when war came there came also a crisis in the affairs of Guilford Duncan's father. Long
                        before the war ended the elder man had surrendered everything he had in the world to his
                        creditors. He had then enlisted in the army, though he was more than sixty years old. He had
                        been killed in the trenches before Petersburg, leaving his only son, Guilford, not only without
                        a patrimony and without a home, but also without any family connection closer than some distant
                        half-theoretical cousin-ships. The young man's mother had gently passed from earth so
                        long ago that he only dimly remembered the sweet nobility of her character, and he had never had
                        either brother or sister.
                    He was thus absolutely alone in the world, and he was penniless, too, as he rode down
                        the mountain steeps. But the impulse of work had come to him,  and he joyfully welcomed it as something vastly better and worthier of his
                        strong young manhood than any brooding over misfortune could be, or any leading of the old
                        aristocratic, half-idle planter life, if that had been possible.
                    In connection with this thought came another. He had recently read Owen
                        Meredith's "Lucille," and as he journeyed he recalled the case there
                        described of the French nobleman who for a time wasted his life and neglected his splendid
                        opportunities in brooding over the downfall of the Bourbon dynasty, and in an obstinate refusal
                        to reconcile himself to the new order of things. Duncan remembered how, after a while, when the
                        new France became involved in the Crimean war, the Frenchman saw a clearer light; how he learned
                        to feel that, under one regime or another, it was still France that he loved, and to France that
                        his best service was due.
                    "That," thought Guilford Duncan, "was a new birth of
                        patriotism. Why should not a similar new birth come to those of us who have fought in the
                        Confederate Army? After all, the restored Union will be the only representative left of those
                        principles for which we have so manfully battled during the last four yearsthe principles of
                        liberty and equal rights and local self-government. We Confederates believe, and will always
                        believe, that our cause was just and right, that it represented the fundamentals of that
                        American system which our forefathers sealed  and
                        cemented with their blood. But our effort has failed. The Confederacy is eternally dead. The
                        Union survives. What choice is left to us who followed Lee, except to reconcile ourselves with
                        our new environment, and help with all our might to preserve and perpetuate within the Union and
                        by means of it, all of liberty and self-government, and human rights, that we have tried to
                        maintain by the establishment of the Confederacy? We must either join heart and soul in that
                        work, or we must idly sulk, living in the dead past and leaving it to our adversaries to do,
                        without our help, the great good that, if we do not sulk, we can so mightily help in
                        doing."
                    He paused in his thinking long enough to let his emotions have their word of protest
                        against a reconciliation which sentiment resented as a surrender of principle.
                    Then, with a resolute determination that was final, he ended the debate in his own
                        mind between futilely reactionary sentiment and hopeful, constructive, common sense.
                    "I for one, shall live in the future and not in the past. I shall make the
                        best and not the worst of things as they are. I have put the war and all its issues completely
                        behind me. For half a century to come the men on either side will organize themselves, I
                        suppose, into societies whose purpose will be to cherish and perpetuate the memory of the war,
                        and to make it a source of antagonism and bitterness. 
                        Their work will hinder progress. I will have nothing to do with it. I am no longer a Confederate
                        soldier. I am an American citizen. I shall endeavor to do my duty as such, wholly uninfluenced
                        and unbiased by what has gone before.
                    "Surely there can be no abandonment of truth or justice or principle in
                        that! It is the obvious dictate of common sense and patriotism. During the war I freely offered
                        my life to our cause. The cause is dead, but I live. I have youth and strength. I have brains, I
                        think, and I have education. These I shall devote to such work as I can find to do, such help as
                        I can render in that upbuilding of my native land which must be the work of all Americans during
                        the next decade or longer!
                    "Good-bye, Confederacy! Good-bye, Army! Good-bye, Lost Cause! I am young. I
                        must 'look forward and not backwardup and not down.' Henceforth I shall live
                        and breathe and act for the future, not for the past! Repining is about the most senseless and
                        profitless occupation that the human mind can conceive."
                    At that moment the young man's horse encountered a huge boulder that had
                        rolled down from the mountain side, completely blockading the path. With the spirit and the
                        training that war service had given him, the animal stopped not nor stayed. He approached the
                        obstacle with a leap or two, and then, with mighty effort, vaulted over it.
                    
                    "Good for you, Bob!" cried the young man. "That's
                        the way to meet obstacles, and that's the way I am resolved to meet them."
                    But the poor horse did not respond. He hobbled on three legs for a space. His master,
                        dismounting, found that he had torn loose a tendon of one leg in the leap.
                    There was no choice but to drive a bullet into the poor beast's brain by way
                        of putting him out of his agony.
                    Thus was Guilford Duncan left upon the mountain side, more desolate and helpless than
                        before, with no possessions in all the world except a pair of pistols, a saddle, a bridle, a
                        side of bacon, a peck of corn meal, and a few ounces of salt.
                    The Valley lay before him in all its barrenness. Beyond that lay hundreds of miles of
                        Allegheny mountains and the region farther on.
                    All this expanse he must traverse on foot before arriving at that great river
                        highway, by means of which he hoped to reach his destination, a thousand miles and more farther
                        still to the West. But the new manhood had been born in Guilford Duncan's soul, and he
                        was no more appalled by the difficult problem that he must now face than he had been by the fire
                        of the enemy when battle was on. "Hard work," he reflected, "is the
                        daily duty of the soldier of peace, just as hard fighting as that of the warrior."
                    Strapping his saddle and bridle on his back he took  his bacon and his salt bag in one hand and his bag of meal in the other. Thus
                        heavily burdened he set out on foot down the mountain.
                    "At any rate my load will grow lighter," he reflected,
                        "every time I eat, and I'll sell the saddle and bridle at the first
                        opportunity. I'll make the Ohio River in spite of all."
                
                
                
                    IV
                    A PRIVATE
                        IN
                        THE ARMY
                        OF WORK
                    
                    IT was a truly terrible tramp that the young man had before him, but he did not
                        shrink. So long as his provisions lasted he pushed forward, stopping only in the woodlands or by
                        the wayside for sleep and for eating. By the time that his provisions were exhausted he had
                        passed the Valley and had crossed the crest of the Alleghenies.
                    He was now in a country that had not been wasted by war, a country in which men of
                        every class seemed to be reasonably prosperous and hard at work.
                    There, by way of replenishing his commissariat, he sold the saddle he was carrying on
                        his back, and thus lightened his load.
                    Fortunately it was a specially good saddle, richly mounted with silver, and otherwise
                        decorated to please the fancy of the dandy Federal officer from whose dead horse Duncan had
                        captured it after its owner had been left stark upon the field in the Wilderness. It brought him
                        now a good price in money, and to this the purchaser generously added a little store of
                        provisions, including, for immediate use, some fresh 
                        meatthe first that had passed Duncan's lips for more months past than he could count
                        upon the fingers of one hand.
                    A little later the young man sold his pistols, but as he pushed onward toward the
                        Ohio River he found that both traveling and living in a prosperous country were far more
                        expensive than traveling and living in war-desolated and still moneyless Virginia.
                    His little store of funds leaked out of his pockets so fast that, economize as he
                        might, he found it necessary to ask for work here and there on his journey. It was spring time,
                        and the farmers were glad enough to employ him for a day or two each. The wages were meagre
                        enough, but Duncan accepted them gladly, the more so because the farmers in every case gave him
                        board besides. Now and then he secured odd jobs as an assistant to mechanics. In one case he
                        stoked the furnaces of a coal mine for a week.
                    But he did not remain long in any employment. As soon as he had a trifle of money or
                        a little stock of provisions to the good, he moved onward toward the river.
                    His one dominating and ever-growing purpose was to reach Cairo. What fortune might
                        await him there he knew not at all, but since he had scratched that address on the butt of a
                        pistol, the desire to reach Cairo had daily and hourly grown upon him until it was now almost a
                        passion. The name "Cairo" in his mind had become a synonym for
                        "Opportunity."
                    
                    It was about the middle of May when the toilsome foot journey ended at Wheeling.
                        There Duncan, still wearing his tattered uniform, made diligent inquiry as to steamboats going
                        down the river. He learned that one of the great coal-towing steamers from Pittsburg was
                        expected within a few hours, pushing acres of coal-laden barges before her, and he was
                        encouraged by the information, volunteered on every hand, that the work of "firing
                        up" under the boilers of these coal-towing boats was so severe that a goodly number of
                        the stokers always abandoned their employment in disgust of it, and deserted the boat if she
                        made a landing at Wheeling, as this approaching one must do for the reason that a number of
                        coal-laden barges had been left there for her to take in tow.
                    It was Guilford Duncan's hope to secure a place on her as a stoker or coal
                        passer, to take the place of some one of the deserters. This might enable him, he thought, to
                        earn a little money on the way down the river, instead of depleting his slenderly stocked purse
                        by paying steamboat fare.
                    With such prospect in mind he ventured to go into the town and purchase a pair of
                        boots and a suit of clothes fit for wear when he should reach Cairo. His worn-out uniform would
                        answer all his purposes while serving as a stoker.
                    When the steamboat, with her vast fleet of barges, made a landing, Guilford Duncan
                        was the first man to leap aboard in search of work. Unfortunately for  him there were few or no deserters from in front of the furnaces on
                        this trip. He could not secure employment as a stoker earning wages, but after some persuasion
                        the steamer's captain agreed to let him "work his passage" to Cairo.
                        That is to say, he was to pay no fare, receive no wages, and do double work in return for his
                        passage down the river and for the coarse and unsavory food necessary for the maintenance of his
                        strength.
                    "All this is a valuable part of my education," he reflected.
                        "I am learning the important lesson that in work as in warfare the man counts for
                        nothingthe service that can be got out of him is the only thing considered by those in command.
                        I must remember all that, if ever I am in a position to make a bargain for the sale of my
                        services."
                    It was in this spirit that the young ex-Captain entered upon his new career in the
                        army of those that work. He was beginning at the bottom in the new service, just as he had done
                        in the old. "I set out as a private in the army," he said to himself.
                        "It was only when I had learned enough to fit me for the command of others that I was
                        placed in authority. Very well, I'm beginning as a private again. I must learn all that
                        I can, for I mean to command in that army, too, some day."
                
                
                
                    V
                    THE BEGINNING
                        OF
                        A CAREER
                    
                    IT was a little after sunset on Decoration Day May 30, 1865when young Duncan went
                        ashore from the tow boat at Cairo. The town was ablaze with fireworks, as he made his way up the
                        slope of the levee, through a narrow passage way that ran between two mountainous piles of
                        cotton bales. At other points there were equally great piles of corn and oats in sacks, pork in
                        barrels, hams and bacon in boxes, and finer goods of every kind in bales and packing cases. For
                        Cairo was just at that time the busiest entrept in all the
                        Mississippi Valley.
                    The town was small, but its business was larger than that of many great cities. The
                        little city lay at the point where the Ohio River runs into the Mississippi. From up and down
                        the Mississippi, from the Ohio, from the Tennessee and the Cumberland, and even from far up the
                        Missouri, great fleets of steamboats were landing at Cairo every day to load and unload cargoes
                        representing a wealth as great as that of the Indies. A double-headed railroad from the North,
                        carrying the produce of half a dozen  States, and
                        connecting by other roads with all the great cities of the land, made its terminus at Cairo. Two
                        railroads from the Southtraversing five Statesended their lines at Columbus, a little farther
                        down the river, and were connected with the northern lines by steamboats from Cairo.
                    Cairo was the meeting place of commerce between the North and the South. Out of the
                        upper rivers came light-draught steamers. Plying the river below were steamers of far different
                        construction by reason of the easier conditions of navigation there. At Cairo every
                        steamboatwhether from North or South unloaded its freight for reshipment up or down the river,
                        as the case might be, upon steamboats of a different type, or by rail. And all the freight
                        brought North or South by rail must also be transferred at Cairo, either to river steamers or to
                        railroad cars.
                    The South was still thronged with Northern troops, numbering hundreds of thousands,
                        who must be fed and clothed, and otherwise supplied, and so the government's own
                        traffic through the town was in itself a trade of vast proportions. But that was the smallest
                        part of the matter. Now that the war was at an end, the South was setting to work to rebuild
                        itself. From the Cumberland and the Tennessee rivers, from the lower Mississippi, from the
                        Arkansas, the Yazoo, the Red River, the White, the St. Francis, and all the rest of the
                        water-ways of the South, energetic  men, of broken
                        fortune, were hurrying to market all the cotton that they had managed to grow and to save during
                        the war, in order that they might get money with which to buy the supplies needed for the
                        cultivation of new crops.
                    Pretty nearly all this cotton came to Cairo, either for sale to eager buyers there,
                        or for shipment to the East and a market.
                    In return the planters and the southern merchants through whom they did business were
                        clamorous for such goods as they needed. Grain, hay, pork, bacon, agricultural implements, seed
                        potatoes, lime, plaster, lumber, and everything else necessary to the rebuilding of southern
                        homes and industries, were pouring into Cairo and out again by train loads and steamboat
                        cargoes, night and day.
                    Even that was not all. For four years no woman in the South had Possessed a new gown,
                        or new handkerchiefs, or a new toothbrush, or a new set of window curtains, or a new comb, or
                        new lines for her beds, or new shoes of other than plantation make, or a new ribbon or bit of
                        lace, or anything else new. Now that the northern market was open for the sale of cotton the
                        country merchants of the South were besieged for all these and a hundred other things, and their
                        orders for goods from the North added mightily to the freight piles on the levee at Cairo.
                    As Guilford Duncan emerged from the alley-way between the cotton bales and reached
                        the street at top  of the levee, a still burning
                        fragment of the fireworks fell upon a bale of which the bagging was badly torn, exposing the
                        lint cotton in a way very tempting to fire. With the instinct of the soldier he instantly
                        climbed to the top of the pile, tore away the burning bunches of lint cotton, and threw them to
                        the ground, thus preventing further harm.
                    As he climbed down again a man confronted him.
                    "Are you a watchman?" asked the man.
                    "No, I'm only a man In search of work."
                    "Why did you do that, then?" queried the stranger, pointing to the
                        still burning cotton scattered on the ground.
                    "On general principles, I suppose," answered Duncan.
                        "There would have been a terrible fire if I hadn't."
                    "What's your name?"
                    "Guilford Duncan."
                    "Want work?"
                    "Yes."
                    "What sort?"
                    "Any sortfor good wages." That last phrase was the result of his
                        stoker experience.
                    "Well, do you want to watch this cotton to-night and see that no harm comes
                        to it, either from fire, or what's worsethe cotton thieves that go down the alleys,
                        pulling out all the lint they can from the torn bales?"
                    "Yes, if I can have fair wages."
                    
                    "Will three dollars for the night be fair wages?"
                    "Yesample. How far does your freight extend up and down the levee?"
                    "It's pretty nearly all mine, but I have other watchmen on other
                        parts of it. This is a new cargo. Your beat will extend-" and he gave the young man his
                        boundaries.
                    "You'll be off duty at sunrise. Come to me at seven
                        o'clock for your pay. I'm Captain Will Hallam. Anybody in Cairo will tell you
                        where my office is. Good-night."
                    This was an excellent beginning, Duncan thought. Three dollars was more money than he
                        had carried in his pocket at any time since he had bought his suit of clothes at Wheeling.
                        Better still, the promptitude with which employment had thus come to him was encouraging,
                        although the employment was but for a night. And when he reflected that he had won favor by
                        doing what seemed to him an act of ordinary duty, he was disposed to regard the circumstance as
                        another lesson in the new service of work.
                    The night passed without event of consequence. There were two or three little fires
                        born of the holiday celebration, but Guilford Duncan managed to suppress them without
                        difficulty. Later in the night the swarm of cotton thievesmainly boys and girls invaded the
                        levee, with bags conveniently slung over their shoulders. As there were practically no policemen
                        in the town, and as his beat was a large one,  young
                        Duncan for a time had difficulty in dealing with these marauders. But after he had arrested half
                        a dozen of them only to find that there were no police officers to whom he could turn them over,
                        he adopted a new plan. He secured a heavy stick from a bale of hay, and with that he clubbed
                        every cotton thief he could catch. As a soldier it was his habit to adapt means to ends; so he
                        hit hard at heads, and seized upon all the stolen goods. It was not long before word was passed
                        among the marauders that there was "a devil of a fellow" in charge of that
                        part of the levee, and for the rest of the night the pilferers confined their operations to
                        spaces where a less alert watchfulness gave them better and safer opportunities.
                    Thus passed Guilford Duncan's first night as a common soldier in the great
                        army of industry.
                    In the morning, at the hour appointed, he presented himself to Captain Will Hallam,
                        and was taken into that person's private office for an interview.
                
                
                
                    VI
                    A CAPTAIN
                        IN
                        THE ARMY
                        OF WORK
                    
                    CAPTAIN WILL HALLAM was a man of the very shrewdest sense, fairlythough not
                        liberallyeducated, whose life, from boyhood onward, had been devoted to the task of taking quick
                        advantage of every opportunity that the great river traffic of the fifties had offered to men of
                        enterprise and sound judgment.
                    Beginning as a barefoot boyabout 1850, or earlier, he never mentioned the datehe had
                        "run the river" in all sorts of capacities until, when the war came,
                        temporarily paralyzing the river trade, he had a comfortable little sum of money to the good.
                    Unable to foresee what the course and outcome of the war might be, he determined, as
                        a measure of prudence, to indulge himself and his little hoard in a period of safe waiting. He
                        converted all his possessions into gold and deposited the whole of it in a Canadian bank, where,
                        while it earned no interest, it was at any rate perfectly safe.
                    Then he sought and secured a clerkship in the commissary department of the army,
                        living upon the scant  salary that the clerkship
                        afforded, and meanwhile acquainting himself in minute detail with the food and methods of
                        transportation and handling, and everything else that could in any wise aid him in making
                        himself a master in commerce.
                    Then one day in 1863, when he had satisfied himself that the fortunes of war were
                        definitely turning and that in the end the Union cause was destined to triumph, he made a
                        change.
                    He resigned his clerkship. He recalled his money from Canada, and considerably
                        increased at least its nominal amount by converting the gold into greatly depreciated
                        greenbacks.
                    With this capital lie opened a commission and forwarding house at Cairo, together
                        with a coal yard, a bank, five wharf boats, half a dozen tugs, an insurance office, a flour
                        mill, and other things. He sent for his brothers to act as his clerks and presently to become
                        his partners.
                    From the beginning he made money rapidly, and from the beginning he was eagerly on
                        the lookout for opportunities, which in that time of rapid change were abundant. He quickly
                        secured control of nearly all the commission and forwarding business that centered at Cairo. By
                        underbidding the government itself he presently had contracts for all the vast government
                        business of that character.
                    He was always ready to take up a collateral enterprice  that promised results. When the Mississippi River was reopened to commerce by
                        the fall of Vicksburg and Port Hudson, Captain Will Hallam was the first to see and seize the
                        opportunity. He bought everything he could lay his hands on in the way of steamboats and barges,
                        and sent them all upon trading voyageseach under charge of a captain, but each directed by his
                        own masterful mindup and down the Mississippi, and up and down the Ohio, and up and down every
                        navigable tributary of those great rivers.
                    This field was quickly made his own, so far as he cared to occupy it. If a rival
                        attempted a competition that might hurt his enterprises, Captain Hallam quietly and quite
                        without a ripple of anger in his voice, dictated some letters to his secretary. Then freight
                        rates suddenly fell almost to the vanishing point, and after a disastrous trip or two, his
                        adversary's steamboats became his own by purchase at low prices, and freight rates went
                        up again. He bore no enmity to the men who thus antagonized him in business and whom he thus
                        conquered. His attitude toward them was precisely that of a soldier toward his enemy. So long as
                        they antagonized him he fought them mercilessly; as soon as they fell into his hands as wounded
                        prisoners, he was ready and eager to do what he could for them.
                    Those of them who knew the river, and had shown capacity in business, were made
                        steamboat captains in his service, or steamboat clerks, or wharfboat managers,  or agents, or something elseall at fair salaries.
                    It was Captain Will Hallam's practice to make partners of all men who might
                        render him service in that capacity. Thus when he saw how great a business there must be at
                        Cairo in supplying Pittsburg steam coal to the government fleets on the Mississippi, and to the
                        thousands of other steamboats trafficking in those waters, he went at once to Pittsburg and two
                        days later he had made a certain Captain Red his partner in the control of that vastly rich
                        trade.
                    Captain Red was the largest owner of the Pittsburg mines, and the pioneer in the
                        business of carrying coal-laden barges in acres and scores of acres down the river, pushing them
                        with stern-wheel streamers of large power, but still of a power insufficient for the
                        accomplishment of the best results.
                    Captain Red's fleet was unable to control the trade. Captain Hallam pointed
                        out to him the desirability of making it adequate and dominant. Within two days the two had
                        formed a partnership which included a number of New York bankers and investors as unknown and
                        silent stockholders in the enterprise, and an abundant capital was provided. An order was given
                        for the hurried building of the Ajax, the Hector, the Agamemnon, the Hercules, and half a dozen
                        other stern-wheel steamers of power so great that they could not carry the coal needed for their
                        own furnaces, but must tow it in barges alongside.
                    
                    These powerful steamers were to push vast fleets of coal-laden barges down the river
                        all the way from Pittsburg on the east to St. Louis on the west, and New Orleans on the south.
                        They were to supply, through Hallam's agents, every town along the river and every
                        steamboat that trafficked to any part of it. Hallam was master of it all. Cairo was to be the
                        central distributing point, and if anybody along the river owned a coal mine in Kentucky or
                        Indiana, or elsewhere, he was quickly made to understand that his best means of marketing his
                        product at a profit was to sell it through the Hallam yards at Cairo.
                    In the meanwhile, as one region after another in the South was conquered by the Union
                        arms, Captain Hallam, whose long river service had brought him into acquaintance with pretty
                        nearly everybody worth knowing south of Cairo, established agents of his own at every point
                        where there was cotton to be bought at extravagant prices, payable in, gold, even while the war
                        was going on. These agents bought the cotton, the planters agreeing to deliver it upon the banks
                        of the rivers and leave it there at Hallam's risk. Then Captain Hallam's
                        steamboats, big and little, would push their way up the little rivers, take the cotton on board,
                        and carry it to Cairo.
                    At Cairo, while the war lasted, there were difficulties to be encountered. Military
                        authority was supreme, and just when the influx of cotton was greatest, military authority
                        arbitrarily decreed that no cotton  should be shipped
                        from Cairo to the North or East without a military permit. For a time this decree seriously
                        embarrassed trade. The warehouses in Cairo were choked and glutted with cotton. New ones were
                        built only to be choked in the same way. The levee was piled high with precious bales. Even
                        vacant lots and unoccupied blocks in the low-lying town were rented and made storage places for
                        cotton bales, piled into veritable mountains of wealth. For cotton was worth forty or fifty
                        cents a pound, and for want of raw material, both in England and in New England, while not a
                        bale could be shipped because the military authorities would issue no permits.
                    Will Hallam one day set himself down to think this thing out. "Why do the
                        military authorities deny us shipping permits?" he asked himself. "The eastern
                        buyers want the cotton, and we western holders of it want to sell it to them. There is
                        absolutely no military or other good reason why the owner of cotton in one northern city should
                        not be allowed to ship it to other northern cities where it is needed." Then he saw a
                        light.
                    "The military people, or some of them, want a slice of the profit.
                        That's what's the matter. I don't like to pay a bribe, but in a
                        military time like this, and while Cairo is under martial law, I suppose I must submit to
                        conditions as they are. I'm no theorist or moralist. I'm fairly honest, I
                        think, but I'm a practical  business man.
                        Besides, I've a dozen partners interested in this cotton, and I owe it to them to get
                        it off to a market. If I don't, most of them will go to the bowwows, financially. The
                        military authorities have no right to forbid shipment and ruin men in this way, but they have
                        the power and they are exercising it. What's that the Bible says about ploughing with
                        the other fellow's heifer, and making friends with the Mammon of unrighteousness? I
                        always play the game according to the rules, no matter whether I like the rules or not.
                        I'll play this hand in that way."
                    Then turning to his secretary, he said:
                    "Call the main office cashier by telegraph and tell him to come to me at
                        once, here at the house."
                    There were no telephones in that day, but Captain Will Hallam was accustomed to say
                        that, living, as he did, in the nineteenth century, he made free use of nineteenth century
                        conveniences in his business. He had laced the little city with telegraph wires, connecting his
                        house not only with his office, and many warehouses, but with the houses of all the chief men in
                        his employ, even to the head drayman. And he exacted of every one of his employees a reasonable
                        facility in the use of the Morse telegraph.
                    Captain Hallam had many rules for the governance of his own conduct. Among them were
                        these:
                    "Never be a foollook at the practical side of things.
                    
                    "Never let anything run away with youkeep cool.
                    "Never be in a hurrymake the other fellows do the hustling.
                    "Never let the men you work with know what you are doingthey are doingthey
                        might talk, or they might do a little business on their own account.
                    "Never be satisfied with anything as it isthere is always some way of
                        bettering it.
                    "Never send good money after badit doesn't pay.
                    "Never waste energy in regretting a lossthere's a better use for
                        energy.
                    "Never hesitate to pay for your education as you get ituse the telegraph
                        freely, and keep in close communication with the men who are likely to know what you want to
                        know.
                    "When you want a man to keep still, make it worth his whilebut
                        don't say anything to him about it. That opens the way to blackmail.
                    "Never take a drinkit unbalances the judgment.
                    "Never get angrythat's worse than taking a dozen drinks.
                    "Never do anything till you are ready to do it all over and clear
                        through."
                    In obedience to the spirit of these rules, Captain Will Hallam, as soon as he had
                        sent off his telegraphic messages, went out into his garden and hoed a while. Then he called
                        John, his English gardener, and gave  him some minute
                        instructions respecting the care of certain plants. John resented the impertinence of course,
                        but he obeyed the instructions, nevertheless. It was the fixed habit of men who worked for
                        Captain Will Hallam to obey his commands.
                    Presently the cashier presented himself, with check book in hand.
                    "Draw a check for five thousand dollars," commanded Captain Hallam,
                        "payable 'to the King of Holland or Bearer. Mind, I say
                        'bearer,' not 'order.' Then
                        draw another check for one hundred dollars, payable to yourself."
                    Not another word was said. No explanation of the gift to the cashier was offered or
                        asked. The cashier understood. He drew the checks and his employer signed them. The smaller one
                        he handed to his subordinate. The vastly larger one he thrust into his vest pocket, as he moved
                        around a corner of the piazza to set his little girls swinging in a new contrivance which he had
                        purchased for their use.
                    Presently he returned to his secretary and said:
                    "Telegraph Mr. Kingsbury to make out an application in proper form for a
                        military permit to ship five thousand bales of cotton to New York. Tell him to have it ready for
                        me at two o'clock at the main office."
                    Two hours later Captain Hallam found the application ready for him on his office
                        desk. After looking it over he signed and carefully folded it after the  fashion required for military documents, but as he did so he slipped
                        into it the check for five thousand dollars, payable to the " King of Holland or
                        Bearer."
                    No mention of the check was made in the document. If the proceeding should be
                        resented at headquarters, the enclosure could be excused on the plea of accident.
                    Then the man of business bade his secretary envelop the package and send it by
                        messenger to military headquarters.
                    It came back promptly with this endorsement on it:
                    "Application denied. The proposed shipment is larger than this office
                        regards as proper under existing circumustances."
                    The last three words were heavily and suggestively underscored. Captain Hallam
                        thought he understood. He was in the habit of understanding quickly. He called the cashier,
                        handed him the check, first tearing it into four pieces, and bade him cancel the stub and draw a
                        new check for ten thousand dollars, payable as before, to " the King of Holland or Bearer."
                    Then he endorsed the application with the sentence:
                    "As conditions have somewhat changed since this application was rejected, I
                        venture to ask a reconsideration."
                    Half an hour later Captain Hallam was duly and officially notified that his
                        application for permission to ship five thousand bales of cotton was granted.
                    The checkwithout endorsementwas cashed next daythe bank teller would never say by
                        whom. But  in the meanwhile Captain Hallam had said to
                        his secretary:
                    "Telegraph the general freight agent at Chicago for freight cars, as fast as
                        he can let me have them. Say I have five thousand bales of cotton awaiting shipment, with more
                        to come as fast as I can get permits."
                    Then Captain Hallam mounted his horse and rode away for a constitutional.
                    All this occurred a year or two before the time of Guilford Duncan's arrival
                        in Cairo; but it was peculiarly characteristic of Captain Hallam's methods and the
                        story of it is illustrative of his ideas.
                
                
                
                    VII
                    THE "SIZING UP" OF GUILFORD DUNCAN
                    
                    CAPTAIN WILL HALLAM was quick to make up his mind with regard to a man. He was
                        exceedingly accurate in his human judgments, too, and his confidence in them had been
                        strengthened by experience in successfully acting upon them. As he phrased it, he "knew
                        how to size a man up," and, as the employer of multitudes of men in all parts of the
                        country and in all sorts of capacities, he had daily need of the skill he had acquired in that
                        art. It was as much a part of his equipment for the conduct of his vast and varied enterprises
                        as was his money capital itself.
                    When young Duncan presented himself in the private office after his night's
                        vigil as a watchman, Captain Hallam asked him to sit. That was a recognition of his social
                        status as something better than his employment of the night before might have suggested.
                        Ordinarily a man employed as a levee watchman would not have been told to come to the private
                        office at all. Nor would such a man have seen anybody higher than a junior clerk in collecting
                        his wages.
                    
                    But Captain Hallam had been impressed by this newcomer, and he wanted to talk with
                        him.
                    He broke at once into a catechism.
                    " Why did you do that little fire--extinguishing act last night?"
                    He asked the question precisely as he might have done if he had resented the saving
                        of his wealth of cotton.
                    "Oh, it was simple enough. The fire meant damage, and I was there. So, of
                        course, I put it out."
                    "But why? The cotton wasn't yours, and you hadn't been
                        hired to watch it."
                    "No, of course not. But when a gentle I mean when any decent man sees
                        property afire he doesn't ask whose it is before putting out the blaze."
                    "You're a Virginian, I should say, from your voicelate of the rebel
                        army. What's your rank?"
                    "None now. I've put the war completely behind me. I'm
                        beginning life anew."
                    "Good! I wish everybody, north and south, would do the same. But fools
                        won't, and men are mostly fools, you know. When did you get to Cairo?"
                    "About five minutes before you saw me putting out the fire. I came down the
                        river on the big tow boat."
                    " Where's your baggage? "
                    "On my back. I have no other clothes. I'll buy some shen I earn
                        some money."
                    
                    "Where have you been since the surrender? "
                    "Making my way West."
                    "How?"
                    "On foot to Wheeling. Then on the tow boat."
                    "What fare did they make you pay? "
                    "None. I worked my way as a stokerfireman they call it out here."
                    "No wages? Just passage and grub?"
                    " That was all."
                    " What have you got on your wheel house? "
                    "I fear I don't understand."
                    "Oh, that's river slang. You know every side wheel steamer has a
                        statement of her destination painted on her wheel house. I meant to ask what are your
                        plans?"
                    "To find work and do it."
                    "What kind of work?"
                    " Any kind that's honest."
                    "You are educated, I suppose?"
                    "Yes, in a way. I'm an A. M. and a graduate in law."
                    "Know anything about business?"
                    "No, but I shall learn."
                    "If you can, you mean?"
                    "Oh, I can. A capable man can learn anything if he really wants
                        to."
                    "I don't know about that. But I'll gamble on the
                        proposition that you can."
                    "Thank you."
                    
                    "No thanks are needed. I wasn't complimenting. I was just
                        expressing an opinion."
                    Scribbling. a memorandum on a scrap of paper, Captain Hallam handed it to Duncan,
                        saying:
                    "Give that to the cashier as you go out, and get your wages. Then
                        you'd better get your breakfast. I recommend you, while you're poor, to eat at
                        the little booths along the levee, where they sell very good sandwiches and coffee cheap. After
                        breakfast, if you choose to come back here I'll try to find something for you to do.
                        Oh, I forgot. You were up all night, so you'll want to sleep."
                    There was an interrogative note in the last sentence. Captain Hallam was
                        "sizing up" his man, and he closely scrutinized Duncan's face as the
                        answer came.
                    "Oh, I'm used to night duty. I'm ready for a
                        day's work if you can give me one. As for breakfast, I've had it."
                    "Then you had money?"
                    "A very little; but I didn't spend any of it. I sawed and split a
                        load of wood for the keeper of a booth, and he gave me some bread and ham and coffee for my
                        work."
                    "Oh, that's the way you managed it. Very well. Come back here in
                        two hours anyhow."
                    After the young man had passed out, Captain Hallam said to one of his partner
                        brothers:
                    "That fellow is a good sort. He has sand in his  gizzard. When he comes back set him at work at something or otherseveral
                        things in succession in factand find out what he can do."
                    Such was Guilford Duncan's mustering in to the new service of work.
                
                
                
                    VIII
                    ON DUTY
                    
                    DURING the next four or five days Guilford Duncan was kept busy with various small
                        employments, some of them out of doors and some of them in the office. During this time Captain
                        Hallam did not again engage him in conversation but Duncan knew that the man of business was
                        closely observing his work. He was not slow to discover that he was giving satisfaction. He saw
                        that with each day the work assigned him was of a kind that required a higher intelligence than
                        that of the day before.
                    Every evening the cashier paid him his day's wages, thus reminding him that
                        he was not a salaried employee of the house, but a man working for wages from day to day.
                    Out of his first wages he had purchased a change of very cheap underwear, a towel,
                        and a cake of soap. Every morning about daylight he went to a secluded spot on the levee, for a
                        scrub and a swim. Then he washed out his towel and placed it with his other small belongings, in
                        a storage place he had discovered in a great lumber pile.
                    
                    One morning when he entered the office Captain Hallam gave him several business
                        letters to answer from memoranda scribbled upon them by clerks or others. He gave him also a
                        memorandum in his own handwriting, saying:
                    "Cut that down if you can and make a telegram of it. I'll be back
                        in half an hour or so. Have it ready for me."
                    The case was this: A huge steamboat lay at the levee, loaded almost to the
                        water's edge with grain which Captain Hallam was more than anxious to hurry to New
                        Orleans to meet a sudden temporary and very marked advance in that market. That morning the boat
                        had been "tied up"as the phrase wentthat is to say, she had been legally
                        attached for debt, at the suit of a firm in St. Louis. Until the attachment should be removed
                        the boat must lie at Cairo, in charge of a sheriff's officer. Captain Hallam wished to
                        secure her immediate release, and to that end he purposed sending the telegram.
                    When he returned to the office Duncan handed him for inspection and signature the
                        letters he had written.
                    "Here is the telegram, also," he said, "but, if you will
                        pardon the impertinence, I think you had better not send itat least in the form you have given
                        it."
                    "What's the matter?" quickly snapped Hallam.
                    "It binds you to more than I think you intend."
                    "Go on! Explain!"
                    
                    "Why, I cannot help seeing that if you send this dispatch you will make
                        yourself legally responsible, not only for the claim for which the boat is now attached, but
                        also for every claim against her that may exist anywhere. There may be none such, or there may
                        be many. In any case I do not think you intend to assume them all."
                    "Go on! The boat must be got away. What do you advise?"
                    "That you go on her bond for this claimwhich' seems to me so
                        clearly illegal that I think you can never be held upon the bondand"
                    "Remind me, when this is over, that you are to come to my house to-night for
                        consultation on that point. Now go on."
                    "Well, by going on her bond for this claim, instead of asking the creditors
                        to release the boat on your promise as made in the telegram, you can secure her immediate
                        release, making yourself liable, at worst, for no more than the six hundred dollars
                        claimed."
                    "But if I do that, what is to prevent another tie-up at Memphis and another
                        at Vicksburg and others wherever the boat may happen to land. She's in debt up to the
                        top of her smokestacks, all along the river."
                    "As you own the cargo, and she can't carry another ton, why should
                        you let her stop at all? I suppose the captain would do as you desire in that matter. You might
                        request him to run through without any landings."
                    
                    "Request be hanged. I'll tell him what to do and he'll do
                        it. He knows where cargoes come from. Can you get the papers ready?"
                    "I can, sir."
                    "All right. Do it at once." Then turning to a shipping clerk he
                        sent for the captain of the steamer, to whom he said:
                    "Get up steam at once. You are to leave in less than an hour. How much coal
                        have you?"
                    The captain told him.
                    "Take two light barges of coal in. tow, one on each side, and draw on them
                        for fuel. When they're empty cast them loose with two men on each to land them. You can
                        pick them up on your return trip. You are to steam to New Orleans without a landing anywhere.
                        You understand?"
                    The captain understood. By this time the papers were ready and after half an hour
                        spent in legal formalities the released steamboat cast loose from the wharf and backed out into
                        the river.
                    Then Captain Hallam turned to Guilford Duncan and said:
                    "I've an idea that you'll do. If you like I'll
                        put you at regular work at a monthly salary, and we'll see how we get on
                        together."
                    "I should like that."
                    "Very well. Now, where are you boarding? "
                    "Nowhere. I get what I want to eat at the booths down along the
                        levee."
                    
                    "But where do you sleep?"
                    "Among the big lumber piles down there on Fourth street."
                    Captain Hallam looked at the young man for a moment with something like admiration in
                        his eyes. Presently he said:
                    "You'll do. You've got grit and you'll
                        'make the riffle,' sure. But you must live more regularly, now that you are to
                        have a salary. I know what it means to live as you've been doing. I used to do it
                        myself. I could tell to a cent the nutritive value of a pegged pie or a sewed one, and at a
                        single glance I could guess the probable proportions of the dog and cat in a sausage. That sort
                        of thing's all right for a little while, but not for long, and as for the sleeping
                        among lumber piles, it's risky. I used to sleep in an empty sugar hogshead by
                        preference, but sleeping out of doors may give you rheumatism."
                    "I've been doing it for four years," answered Duncan,
                        smiling, "and I still have the use of my limbs.'
                    "Yes, of course. I didn't think of that. But you must live better
                        now. There's a well-furnished room above the office. It was my brother's
                        quarters before he got married, and it is very comfortable. You can take it for your own. Give
                        Dutch John, the scrub boy, half a dollar a week, to take care of it for you and that's
                        all the rent you need pay. As for your meals, most young men in Cairo feed their faces at the
                        hotel. But that's expensive and what the proprietor  calls his 'kuzene' is distinctly bad. There's a
                        lady, however,Mrs. Deming,who furnishes very good 'square meals,' I hear, over
                        in Walnut street. You'd better try there, I think. She's what you would call a
                        gentlewoman, but she needs all the money you'll pay her."
                    Duncan wondered a little what a 'square meal' might be, but he was
                        getting somewhat used to the prevalence in the West of those figurative forms of expression
                        which we call slang. So he took it for granted that "square meals" were for
                        some reason preferable to meals of any other geometrical form, and answered simply that he would
                        look up Mrs. Deming's house after business hours should be over.
                    "Remember," said Captain Hallam as he passed out of the office,
                        "you are to see me at my house to-night. Better come to suppersay at sevenand after
                        supper we'll talk over that law point you mentioned, and other things."
                    Duncan wondered a little that Captain Hallam should give him so intimate an
                        invitation when he knew so little of him. Everybody else in the office understood. Captain Will
                        was planning to "size up his man" still further; in an evening's
                        conversation.
                
                
                
                    IX
                    ONE NIGHT's WORK
                    
                    As the weeks and months went on the results of Gilford Duncan's work
                        completely justified the confident assertion he had made to Captain Hallam that a capable man can learn any thing if he really wants to.
                    
                    He rapidly familiarized himself with the technicalities, as well as with the methods
                        and broad principles of business. He sat up till midnight for many nights in succession, in
                        order to learn from the head bookkeeper the rather scant mysteries of bookkeeping. By observing
                        the gaugers who measured coal barges to determine their contents, he quickly acquired skill in
                        doing that.
                    It was so with everything. He was determined to master every art and mystery that in
                        anywise pertained to business, whether the skill in question was or was not one that he was ever
                        likely to need or to practice.
                    His diligence, his conscientiousness in work, his readiness of resource, his alert
                        intelligence, and his sturdy integrity daily commended him more and more  to the head of the firm, and not many months had passed before
                        everyone in the office tacitly recognized the young Virginian as the confidential adviser and
                        assistant of Captain Hallam himself, though no formal appointment of that kind had been made.
                    But no advance of salary came to the young man as a result. It was one of Captain
                        Hallam's rules never to pay a man more for his services than he must, and never to
                        advance a man's salary until the advance was asked for.
                    Captain Hallam was in no fibre of his being a miser, but he acted always upon those
                        cold-blooded prudential principles that had brought him wealth. It was not money that this great
                        captain of commerce worshiped, but success. Success was the one god of his idolatry. Outside of
                        his business he was liberal in the extreme. Even in his business operations he never hesitated
                        at lavish expenditure where such expenditure promised good results. But he regarded all
                        unnecessary spending as waste, of the kind that imperils success.
                    In his cynical moments, indeed, he sometimes said that "if you have a
                        valuable man in your employ, you must keep him poor; otherwise you'll lose
                        him." But in so saying he perhaps did himself an injustice. He was apt to feign a
                        heartless selfishness that he did not feel.
                    Little by little Guilford Duncan had learned all this as he had learned business
                        methods. He had at first  modestly proposed to himself
                        nothing more in the way of achievement than to make himself a valuable subordinatea private, or
                        at most a corporal or a sergeantin the ranks of the great army of work. But before many months
                        had passed his modesty was compelled to yield somewhat to an increasingly clear understanding of
                        conditions and possibilities. Somewhat to his own surprise he began to suspect himself of
                        possessing capacities superior to those of the men about him, and even superior to those of many
                        men who had risen to high place in commerce and finance.
                    As Captain Hallam came more and more to rely upon the sagacity and character of this
                        his most trusted man, he more and more brought young Duncan into those confidential conferences
                        with the leading men of affairs, which were frequently necessary in the planning and execution
                        of important enterprises, or in the meeting of difficulties and obstacles. In that way Duncan
                        was brought into personal contact with the recognized mastersbig and littlewith railroad
                        presidents, financiers, bankers, capitalists, and other men whose positions were in a greater or
                        less degree commanding.
                    At first he modestly held himself as nothing more than the tool and servitor of these
                        great men. But presently he began to suspect that they were not very great men after allto see
                        that it was usually he himself who devised and suggested the enterprises that  these men undertook, and he who saved them from
                        mistakes in the execution of those enterprises.
                    Guilford Duncan had never in his life kept a diary. He regarded that practice as a
                        useless puerility and usually an indulgence in morbid self-communing and unwholesome
                        self-consciousness. But it was his practice, sometimes, late at night, to set down upon paper
                        such thoughts as had interested him during the day, for the sole sake of formulating them in his
                        own mind. Often he would in this way discuss with himself questions concerning which he had not
                        yet matured his option.
                    He found the practice conducive to clear thinking and sound judgment. It served for
                        him the same purpose that the writing of intimate letters might have done if he had had any
                        intimates to whom to write letters.
                    "I' ve been in conference this day," he wrote one night,
                        "with half a dozen nabobsnot great nabobs, but second rate ones. Mr. Mwas the biggest
                        one. He's a railroad president, and he always talks loftily of his '
                        system' when he means the single railroad he presides over and its little branches.
                        Then there was D. He's a General Freight Agent, and he never forgets the fact or lets
                        anybody else forget it. That's because he was a small shipping clerk until less than
                        two years ago. I don't think much of his capacity. Yes, I do. He knows how to manage a
                        big traffic fairly well, and he has had nous
                         enough to climb out of his small clerkship into a
                        position of responsibility. What I mean is that he has little education, no culture, and no
                        intelligence outside of business. But I begin to see that except in its very highest places,
                        business does not require anything better than good ordinary ability inspired by inordinate
                        selfishness. Perhaps that is the reason that the novelists so rarelyI may say nevertake a man of
                        business for the hero of a romantic story.
                    "All this has put a new thought into my mind. Why should not I, Guilford
                        Duncan, make myself a leader, a captain, or even a commanding general of affairs. I am far
                        better educated than any of these men. They hold that education is a hindrance rather than a
                        help in business, but in that they are mightily wrong, as I intend presently to show them. Other
                        things being equal, a man of trained mind should certainly achieve better results, even in
                        business, than a man of untrained mind. A. man of trained mind, if he has natural capacity and
                        energy, can do anything that he chooses to do. I must never
                        forget that.
                    "But the man who would do things of any consequence in business ways must
                        have money. The bank account is his tool chest.
                    "I suggested some combinations to-night to those nabobs, and they are going
                        to carry them out. They would never have thought of the combinations but for my suggestion. But
                        they can and will carry them  out, with great credit
                        and profit to themselves, because they have command of money I
                        could not even think of conducting such affairs, simply because I have no command of money.
                    "Very well, then. I shall proceed to get money, just as I should study to
                        acquire skill in a profession, or just as I should read up the law pertaining to a matter with
                        which I must deal.
                    "I shall not learn to love money. That would degrade my soul. I shall regard
                        money always as a meansa mere tool with which to do such work as I can in this great undeveloped
                        country.
                    "That also is something to be remembered. The era of development is just
                        beginning. These men are nation builders, though they don't know it, or intend it, or
                        care anything about that aspect of their activities. Their motives are the sordid impulses of
                        greed and selfish ambition alone.
                    "At least that is true of all of them except Captain Hallam. He is a man
                        apart. His attitude is a peculiar one. He does not care for wealth in itself and yet he
                        scrambles for it as greedily and as hungrily as the rest of them. Sometimes I think he regards
                        the whole thing as a game which he enjoys playing with superior skill, just as one might with
                        whist or chess. He likes to win, not for the sake of the winnings, but for the sake of the
                        winning.
                    "I must go to bed now. To-morrow I'll begin thinking out plans for
                        getting money. One thing  is sure. No man can get much
                        money by working for any other man. The man who gets rich is he who hires other men to work for
                        him for less than their work is worth. But it is only by working for another man that one can
                        get the first little capitalthe first rude but handy tool with which to achieve success.
                        I'll go on working as a hired man till I get a little hoard together. After thatwell,
                        we shall see."
                    Duncan was greatly admired but little understood by his fellows in the service of the
                        Hallam firm, or by the similar people who thronged the town. His fellows, in and out of the
                        office, were commonplace young men, all looking to the main chance alone and pursuing it with
                        only such honesty of conduct as business prudence required. They felt no further interest in
                        their work than such as was necessary to enable them to retain their places and their salaries.
                    Therefore they did not understand Guilford Duncan. Neither could they. They regarded
                        with amazement and almost with incredulity his manifestations of sensitive honor and of
                        unselfish loyalty to duty. They thought of him as a sort of freak, or what we should nowadays
                        call a crank.
                    Of course they could not fail to recognize his ability, but they thought him a good
                        deal of a fool, nevertheless, for not taking selfish advantage of the opportunities that so
                        frequently came to him. They could not understand why lie should go out of his way, as he very
                        often did, to render services to the firm  which were
                        in no way required or expected of him. Especially they could not understand why, when he had
                        rendered such services in a ay to attract Captain Hallam's pleased attention he
                        didn't "strike for something better," as they phrased their thought.
                    In one especial case, their amazement over his neglect of an opportunity bred
                        something like contempt of him in their minds. It was the practice of the Hallams to keep a
                        fleet of heavily laden coal barges in a bend of the river above the town, bringing them down one
                        by one to the coalyards at "The Point" below the city as they were needed. One
                        day m the early winter, a coal gauger being off duty, Duncan volunteered to go up to the bend in
                        his stead, and measure the coal in a great fleet of barges that had just arrived.
                    He found the barges unsafely bestowed, and suggested to the captain of the Hallam
                        yard tug boat that he should tow them into a securer anchorage. As night was at hand the captain
                        of the tug refused, saying that he would attend to the matter on the morrow.
                    That night the first storm of the winter broke upon the river, lashing it to fury,
                        and threatening with destruction every species of craft that might venture away from mornings.
                    About midnight one of Duncan's bedroom windows was blown in, scattering
                        glass and fragments of sash over his bed, and startling him out of sleep.
                    
                    Instantly the thought of the exposed coal barges lashed into his mind. He knew that
                        they were utterly unfit to ride out a storm, being nothing more than great oblong boxes, loaded
                        nearly to their gunwales with coal. He remembered, too, the exposed position in which they had
                        been left for the night.
                    Hastily drawing on his clothing he hurried to the landing place of the yard tug. He
                        found no preparations making there for any attempt to save the barges and their enormously rich
                        cargoes, or even to rescue the helpless men who had been left on board of them. The engineer of
                        the tug, who always slept on board, was there, and so were the two deck hands and the fireman,
                        but the fires were banked, and the captain had not responded to the duty call of the tempest.
                    As the immediate representative and chief lieutenant of Captain Hallam, Guilford
                        Duncan was recognized as a man somewhat entitled to give orders. On this occasion he promptly
                        assumed so much more of authority as did not strictly belong to him.
                    He instantly ordered the engineer to get up steam. He directed one of the two deck
                        hands to go hurriedly to the tug captain's bedroom and order him to come to the tug at
                        once.
                    As he rattled off his orders for putting cable coils aboard, placing all fenders in
                        position, battening down the hatches, and doing all else that might render  the tug fitter for the perilous service that he intended to exact of
                        her, his voice took on the old ring of battle, and his commands came quick, sharp, and
                        penetrating from his set lips, like those of an officer placing guns in position for a desperate
                        fight.
                    The captain, who was also sole pilot of the tug, so far obeyed the order sent to him
                        as to come to the tug landing. But when he looked out upon the storm-lashed river, he positively
                        refused to obey Duncan's order to go to the wheel.
                    "I'll never take the tug out in such a storm as this," he
                        said doggedly.
                    "But think, man! There are twenty men or more up there on those coal barges,
                        whose lives simply must be saved. And there is a hundred thousand
                        dollars' worth of coal there that may go to the bottom any minute."
                    "I can't help that. I tell you the tug couldn't live a
                        minute in such a storm."
                    "In other words," answered Duncan with measureless contempt in his
                        tone, "you are a miserable coward, a white-livered wretch, whose life wouldn't
                        be worth saving if it were in danger. Go back to your bed! Go to sleep! or go to hell, damn you, for the cowardly whelp that you are!"
                    Then turning to the engineer and the two deck hands, he asked hoarsely:
                    "Will you men stand to your duty while I go to the wheel?"
                    
                    " We're with you while she floats, cap'n," said
                        the engineer. "I always did hate a coward."
                    "Have you got steam enough? "
                    "Yes, a hundred and fifty pounds pressure to the square inch, and
                        she'll need it all."
                    "All right. Cast her off," commanded Duncan as he stepped to his
                        post in the pilot house.
                    He knew, of course, that he was taking terrible risks. Having no pilot s license he
                        had no legal right to be at the wheel. Should disaster overtake the tug he would be personally
                        liable for the insurance forfeited by his act in taking her out in contravention of the judgment
                        of her captain and pilot. Worse still, should any life be lost in the adventure, Guilford Duncan
                        would be held to answer for manslaughter.
                    Well-educated lawyer that he was, he knew all these facts. He perfectly understood
                        the fearful responsibilities he was taking upon himself. Yet he faltered not nor failed. There
                        was no moment's hesitation in his mind. There wore lives in peril up there in the bend,
                        and a vast property exposed to destruction. There was a chance that by taking these risks he
                        might save both. All that is best in the soul-impulse of the soldier was his inspiration. He
                        would do his dutythough that duty was in no wise his except as he had made it hisand let
                        consequences look out for themselves.
                    This young fellow had often sniffed the breath of  battle in his nostrils. He had many times done and dared things that only a
                        brave and self-regardless man could have done and dared. To-night the old enthusiasm of war came
                        back to his soul, but with a difference. He had often fought to destroy. He was facing danger
                        now with saving and the rescue of imperiled human lives for his purpose.
                    As the tug quitted her moorings and began her voyage up the river, Duncan caught a
                        glimpse of Captain Hallam's form hurrying toward the landing. Almost immediately the
                        tug began to plunge in perilous fashion, thrusting her head under the waves, and shipping water
                        enough to dampen the fires and diminish steam pressure m a way that threatened failure to the
                        enterprise.
                    Failure in the work of rescue was the only thing that Guilford Duncan feared.
                    He had already had the hatches securely battened down so that no water could find its
                        way into the hold. But when he saw that water was rapidly rushing with every sea into the
                        furnace room, threatening with extinction the fires that could alone give power to the vessel,
                        he called one of the deck hands to the wheel, and instructing him as to the course to be laid,
                        himself hurriedly inspected ship. With the aid of the other deck hand he quickly removed from
                        bow to stern everything that had weight. Then he and the deck hand and the fireman, with some
                        aid from the engineer, proceeded to shovel the coal supply from  its bunkers forward of the fire room into the captain's cabin aft of
                        the furnaces.
                    This done, the tug no longer ran her prow into and under the tremendous seas, but
                        rode over them instead, shipping no further water.
                    Then Duncan returned to the pilot house, and a few minutes later reached the
                        imperiled fleet of coal barges.
                    There havoc had already begun. Three barges had gone down and two men had been
                        drowned. The rest of the barges were riding so uneasily that their seams were opening, and the
                        water that must presently swamp them was finding its insidious way through their sides and
                        bottoms.
                    When the tug appeared, all the men on board the coal barges clamored piteously to be
                        taken off at once.
                    "Stand to your duty, men!" shouted Duncan. "Don't
                        be cowards. Do your part of the work and we'll save all of you and all the coal. Only
                        obey orders promptly and I'll be responsible for the rest. Go to the pumps and answer
                        every command promptly."
                    He then ordered flaming torches kindled on every barge, and in the light thus created
                        he was able to tow one after another of the coal boats into that harbor of safety in which the
                        tug captain should have moored them during the day before, the men mean-while pumping to keep
                        the water down.
                    
                    Then with his clothing drenched and frozen stiff upon him, he steered the tug back to
                        her landing place, through the now receding storm.
                    Kennedy, the tug captain, was there, waiting. 'As Duncan came ashore Kennedy
                        said menacingly:
                    "If I get my discharge for this I'll prosecute you for piloting
                        without a license."
                    The ice-encased and half-frozen young man made no reply. He simply hurried ashore.
                    As he mounted to the top of the levee, though it was only a little after daylight,
                        Duncan encountered Captain Will Hallam, who stood there waiting for him.
                    "Go to the hotel," said the employer. "I've
                        ordered a piping hot bath for you there, and a blazing wood fire. There's nothing like
                        a wood fire after a chilling such as you've had. When you get good and warm, go to bed.
                        When you wake naturally, telegraph to the office for me, and we'll breakfast together.
                        I've ordered the breakfastthe hotel keeper thinks it will bankrupt him or make his
                        fortune to furnish it, but that doesn't matter. Get warm and get some sleep. Sleep as
                        long as you can."
                    "I don't think I care for sleep," answered the half-frozen
                        and wholly exhausted young man. "But would you mind sending Dutch John to me at the
                        hotel? I'd like to have him rub me down with some Turkish towels after my hot bath.
                        Tell him I have a dollar for him if he rubs me well."
                    
                    "That fellow is certainly a new brand," muttered Captain Hallam to
                        himself as he walked away up the levee. "But he's ' triple
                        X' for endurance and modesty and courage, and all the rest of it. What a fighter he
                        must have been! I'd like to see him in a hot battle, if I were bullet proof myself.
                        I'll bet bonds to brickbats he got all the fight there was in them out of his men. But
                        why doesn't he look out for his own interests, I wonder? I'm still paying him
                        the salary on which he began. Any other man in my employ who could have done one-tenth of what
                        he has done, would have made me pay three times as much by this time. But then, that's
                        the reason. It's just because he is that sort that he hasn't bothered about an
                        increase of salary. By George! I'll give it to him without the asking! I never did such
                        a thing before in all my life. It will startle the office people out of their wits, but they
                        need startling, and as for their witswell"
                    He didn't complete the sentence; for just then he met Dutch John.
                    "Go down to the hotel at once," he command.
                    "Go on the run. Go to Mr. Duncan's room and rub all the skin off
                        his body. He'll give you a dollar for a good rub. I'll give you five dollars
                        more if he is satisfied."
                    "I must milk your cows first," answered the stolid German boy,
                        whose occupations were varied and sometimes conflicting.
                    
                    "Oh, let the cows go hang! Or let the half-dozen accomplished young ladies
                        whom my wife employs to keep her establishment in order, milk them! You go to the hotel and rub
                        that man into condition. Damn the cows!"
                    Obviously, young Duncan's performance of that stormy night had awakened
                        Captain Hallam to enthusiasm. He was not much given to enthusiasms, but this one was thoroughly
                        genuine.
                    "Yes, by George!" he said between his clenched teeth,
                        "I'll multiply that fellow's salary by three and let the office
                        people wonder! Perhaps it will give them a hint. No, it won't. Or at least they
                        won't take the hint. But anyhow, I'll do it, if only for what the newspapers
                        call ' dramatic effect.'"
                    Entering the office, where, at this hour, the clerks were assembling, Captain Hallam
                        said, in his figurative fashion:
                    "That fellow Duncan has got more cogs in his gearing wheels than all the
                        rest of you put together. You call him a freak; you call him eccentric, because he
                        isn't like you. Now let me tell you that that's a sort of eccentricity that
                        you'll do well to cultivate. The less you are like yourselves and the more
                        you're like him, the better it will be for you. He thinks. You don't. He docs
                        all he can. You do as little as you can. He shall have his reward. He shall have a salary three
                        times that of the best man in the office. And more than that, he shall have the right to command
                             here. Whatever orders he gives shall be obeyed,
                        just as if they were my own. He is your model to imitate, so far as you can. But most of you
                        can't. Most of you care only to get through a day's work for a day's
                        wages. You have no loyalty, no concern for the business. Not a man jack of you thought of the
                        storm last night as a circumstance that imperiled human life and my property. He did. You lay
                        still in your beds listening to the rain on the roof, and sinking into sweet slumbers to the
                        tune of its pattering. He was up and out, and risking his life to meet the emergency.
                        Can't you see that that makes all the difference between a successful man and an
                        unsuccessful one? Can't you understand that oh, pshaw! What's the use of
                        talking to stumps?"
                    That was the very longest speech that Captain Will Hallam had ever made in his life.
                        It was not without effect. It did not inspire any of the clerks to fresh endeavor, or to a more
                        conscientious service. But it made every one of them an implacable enemy of Guilford Duncan, and
                        inflamed every one of them with an Insatiable desire to injure him whenever occasion might
                        offer.
                    Thus, by his night's heroic endeavor, Guilford Duncan had succeeded not only
                        in making an enemy of Captain Kennedy, but in making himself anathema
                            maranatha in the Hallam office besides.
                    He was taking a bath however, at that time, and not thinking of these matters.
                
                
                
                    X
                    ALLIANCE, OFFENSIVE
                        AND DEFENSIVE
                    
                    HOW did you come to do that?"
                    That was the first question Captain Hallam fired at Duncan after the hotel waiter had
                        quitted the room to bring a further supply of coffee and broiled bacon.
                    "Why, it's simple enough," answered Duncan, with a touch
                        of embarrassment in his tone. "You see, I was up there yesterday gauging coal. I knew
                        the barges were anchored in a dangerous position, and so when the storm broke, there
                        wasn't anything else to do but get into my clothes and send the tug up there to the
                        rescue."
                    "But it wasn't your business to look after the coal up in the bend?
                        "
                    Duncan slowly drank three sips of coffee before answering that eagerly questioning
                        remark. Then he leant forward and said, slowly and with emphasis:
                    "I conceive it to be my business, and my duty as well as my pleasure, to do
                        all that I can to promote the interets of the man who employs me."
                    
                    "But that was a risky thing to do. You took your life in your hands, you
                        know?"
                    "I suppose I did, but that's a small matter. There were twenty
                        other lives in danger. And what is one man's life when there is a duty to be done?
                        We've all got to die sometime."
                    Captain Hallam did not utter the thought that was in him. That thought was:
                    "Well, of all the queer men I have ever had to deal with, you are certainly
                        the queerest! Still, I think I understand you, and that's queerer still."
                    Instead of speaking he sipped his coffee. Then he rose and "tickled the
                        denunciator." That was his phrase for ringing for a servant.
                    "Put some more wood on the fire," he commanded have the servant
                        came.
                    "I've put it all on a'ready," answered the man.
                    "Well, bring some more."
                    "It'll be extry charge, sir."
                    "Never mind that," said Captain Hallam. "Do as you are
                        told, and when the thing is over I'll issue a loan, raise some money, and pay the bill.
                        You know who I am, don't you?"
                    "No, sir. You see, I've just come to Cairo."
                    "Very well, then. Go to the office of the hotel and tell the people there
                        that Captain Will Hallam is ordering more wood than you think lie can pay for. They'll
                        tell you what to do. In the meantime, here's a quarter for you."
                    
                    This by-play with the serving man relieved Captain Hallam of a sense of embarrassment
                        which, he felt in approaching the next thing he had in mind.
                    "What do you want, Duncan, for last night's works.
                    Duncan looked at his companion for half a minute before answering. Then he said:
                    "I want that tug captain of yours discharged."
                    "Why?
                    Because he's a coward and an utterly unfit man. Human life may depend upon
                        his courage at any moment, and he has no courage."
                    "Is that all you want?"
                    "Yes. That's all."
                    "Why don't you demand an increase in your salary? Anybody else
                        would. But, perhaps you don't care for a bigger salary? You're a queer sort,
                        you know."
                    "Oh, yes; I care very much for an increase," answered Duncan.
                    "Then why didn't you seize upon the opportunity to ask for
                        it?"
                    "Must I tell you, frankly?"
                    "I wish you would. It might help me to understand you."
                    "Well, it is simple enough. You gave me employment when I was desperately in
                        need of it. I should be an ingrate if I did not consider your interests in all that I do. I
                        think I ought to have a larger salary  than you are
                        now paying me. I think I earn it, and it has been my purpose to ask for it when the proper time
                        should come."
                    "Then why haven't you been in a hurry to ask for it now? There
                        couldn't be a better time."
                    "Pardon me, but I cannot agree with you. It so happens that just at this
                        moment I have several very important matters of yours in my charge. You have entrusted them to
                        me, and they have come so exclusively under my control that nobody elsenot even youcould conduct
                        them to a successful issue so well as I can. Under such circumstances, of course, I cannot make
                        any personal demand upon you, without indecency. To do so would be to take advantage of your
                        necessities. It would amount to a threat that, if you refused my demands, I would abandon these
                        enterprises and leave you to get out of all their difficulties as best you could. Don't
                        you see, Captain Hallam that under such circumstances, I simply could not make a demand upon you
                        for more salary, or for anything else of personal advantage to myself?"
                    "No, I don t see it at all. And yet, somehow, I seem to understand you. If I
                        were in your place I'd regard these circumstances as trump cards, and I'd lead
                        them for all they are worth. So would any other man in the Mississippi Valleyor anywhere else, I
                        think."
                    "That may perhaps be so, and I suppose I am  'queer,' as you say. But to me it would seem a despicable
                        thing to take advantage of the fact that you need me in these affairs of yours. You have bidden
                        me be frank. I will be so. When I came to Cairo I sought work of the hard, physical kind, at the
                        small wages that such work commands. You quickly gave me better work and larger pay than I had
                        expected to earn for months to come. Little by little you have advanced me in your regard until
                        now I seem to enjoy your confidence. When you first brought me into contact with the big men of
                        affairsmore or less bigI was oppressed with an exaggerated sense of their greatness. Presently,
                        I discovered that while you are always deferential toward them, you are distinctly their
                        superior in intellect and in your grasp of affairs. You allow them to think that they are your
                        masters, while in fact you never fail to have your way, and to compel them and the many millions
                        of other people's money whose use they control, to your own purposes."
                    At this point Hallam uttered a low chuckle.
                    "A little later I discovered another fact," continued Duncan.
                        "It slowly dawned upon my mind that you put me forward in your conferences with them,
                        because you valued my suggestions and my initiative more than you did theirs. Thinking of that I
                        came at last to the conclusion that I must, in fact, be superior to these men in those qualities
                        that originate, execute, achieve. Otherwise, with your  genius for affairs, you would have suppressed me and listened to them."
                    Again Hallam chuckled.
                    "Then another thought occurred to me. The only reason why they can execute
                        plans that I conceive, while I cannot, is that they have considerable money of their own and
                        command of much greater sums not their own, while I have neither. They have the tools and the
                        materials. I have neither. The clumsiest mechanic, who has tools and materials to work with, can
                        do things that the most skillful mechanic who has neither tools nor materials, cannot do.
                    "I have decided, therefore, to possess myself of tools and materials, in
                        order that I may make myself a master workman, and do my part in the great nation-building
                        enterprises of the time and country."
                    "Would you mind explaining what you mean by that?" interrupted
                        Hallam, whose eagerness in listening had caused him to let his second cup of coffee grow cold.
                    Duncan arose, without answering, crossed the room, pressed the button, and then said:
                    "It is a subject that I very much wish to talk with you about. But your
                        coffee is cold. When you get a fresh cup, I"ll explain."
                    He said no more till the waiter came, served the coffee and left the room. Then he
                        began:
                    
                    "People who live all then" lives in the mountains have no adequate
                        conception or perception of the grandeur of the scenery that surrounds them. We never any of us
                        fully understand the things against which we "rub our eyes," as a witty
                        Frenchman has put it. It is for that reason, perhaps, that what is going on here in the West
                        does not impress you in the same way in which it impresses me. You men of affairs are just now
                        beginning to do the very greatest work of nation building that has ever been done since time
                        began. But you are so close to your work that you do not appreciate its collossal proportions.
                        You have no perspective. In that I have the advantage of you. Coming, as I do, out of the dead
                        past, contemplating the present as I do, and looking to the future as I must, I see the grandeur
                        to which your detailed work is tending, with a clearness of vision impossible to you because of
                        your nearness to it. May I so on and set forth the whole of my thought?"
                    "Yes, certainly. I want to hear. Go on!"
                    "Well, then, let me explain and illustrate. A little while ago, in going
                        over your accounts, I discovered that the cotton and grain you shipped from Cairo to New York
                        must be five times transferred from one car to another. That entailed enormous and needless
                        expense in addition to the delay. A few weeks ago I suggested to a conference of railroad nabobs
                        at your house that you should organize a line of through freight cars, which should be loaded at
                        Cairo,  St. Louis, Chicago, or anywhere else in the
                        West, and hauled through to New York, Boston, or anywhere else in the East, without breaking
                        bulk. The saving of expense was so obvious that you put a hundred thousand dollars into the line
                        and the railroad magnates made specially good terms for the hauling of the ear. You expect and
                        will get dividends from your investment. The railroad men see profit for their companies in the
                        operation of the line. That is all that you and they foresee of advantage. In my view that is
                        the very smallest part of the matter."
                    "How do you mean?"
                    "Why, taking cotton as a basis of reckoning, this through-line system of
                        transportation, owned independently of the railroads, will make an important saving in the cost
                        of raw materials to the owners of New England mills. They will run more spindles and set more
                        looms agoing than they would have done without the through line"s cheapening of raw
                        material. They will pay better wages and reap larger profits. They will produce more goods, and
                        they will sell them at a smaller price. The farmer in the West will pay less for his cotton
                        goods and get more for his grain because of the through line"s cheapening of
                        transportation. He and his wife and his children will dress better at less cost than they
                        otherwise could do. Bear in mind that the line"s cars will carry other things than
                        cotton. The people of the  East will get their
                        breadstuff"s and their bacon and their beef far cheaper because of its existence than
                        they otherwise could.
                    "That is one step in advance, and it is only one. The success of this line
                        is now assured. A dozen or a score of other through freight lines will be organized and operated
                        in competition with it. The present line"s rate of one and a half cents per ton per
                        mile will presently be cut down by competition to half a cent per ton per mile, or even less. I
                        shall not be surprised if, with the improvement of railroads and with their closer co-operation
                        the freight rate shall ultimately be reduced even to one-fifth or one-tenth of a cent per ton
                        per mile.
                    "Now, again. A little while ago you were in Washington. You found it
                        necessary to execute certain papers and to file them in Chicot County, Arkansas, before a
                        certain fixed date. You ordered me by telegraph to prepare the papers and bring them to you in
                        Washington in the speediest way possible, in order that I might carry them, within the time
                        limit, to their destination. I started for Washington within five minutes, by the quickest
                        possible route, preparing the papers on the train. I had to change cars five times between Cairo
                        and Washington, and seven times more between Washington and Memphis. All that will presently be
                        changed. In our conference the other day with the railroad men, I suggested something to the car
                        builder, George M. Pullman, which  will some day bear
                        fruit. At present every railroad runs its own sleeping cars and runs them at a loss. Some of
                        them nave quit running them because they lost money. The trouble is that the passenger must get
                        up in the middle of the night and transfer from one sleeping car to another. Therefore he takes
                        no sleeping car. I have suggested to the car builder, Pullman, that he shall take the sleeping
                        car service into his own hands and run his cars through from every western to every eastern city
                        without change, he paying the railroads for hauling his cars and he collecting the revenue that
                        men will be willing to pay for the comfort of through transportation.
                    "Now, all this is merely a beginning. The railroads of this country,
                        together with the new ones now building, will presently be consolidated into great systems.
                        Transportation, both as to freight and as to passengers, is now done at retail, and the cost is
                        enormous. It will, after a while, be done at wholesale, and at a proportionate reduction in
                        cost.
                    "Now the thought that is in my mind is this: We have got to build this great
                        nation anew upon lines marked out by the events of the last few years. The war has been
                        costlyenormously costly. It has saddled the country with a debt of about three billions of
                        dollars, besides the incalculable waste. But it has awakened a great national self consciousness
                        which will speedily pay off the debt, and, incidentally, develop the resources of the country in
                        a  way never dreamed of before. Those resources, so
                        far as they are undeveloped, or only partially developed, lie mainly in the West and South. It
                        is our duty to develop them.
                    "The government is building a railroad to the Pacific coast. That, when it
                        is done, will annex a vast and singularly fruitful country to the Union. The fertility of the
                        soil there, and the favorable climatic conditions, promise results that must presently astonish
                        mankind. But in the meanwhile it is our part of the nation-building work to develop the
                        resources of what we now call the West. Minnesota, in its eastern part, is already producing
                        wheat in an abundance that discourages all eastern farmers and sets them to the culture of small
                        fruits and to truck gardening for the supply of the great cities there. There is great gain even
                        in that. Presently the Minnesota wheat farmers will extend their limitless fields into the
                        Dakotah country as soon as railroads are built thereand a new era of development will
                        begin."
                    "Why do you not include the South in your reckoning?" asked Hallam.
                    "I do. Under the new conditions the South will produce more cotton than it
                        over did, and its coal and iron resources will be enormously developed. But the South is, for
                        the present, handicapped by disturbed conditions and a disorganized labor system. It will be
                        long before that region shall take its full  share in
                        national developmentin what I call " nation building."
                    "Pardon me for wandering so far afield. I have meant only to show you what I
                        regard as the true character of the work that you and your associates are doing. Now, I wish and
                        intend to do my share in that work. To that end, I must have money of my own, and that control
                        of other people"s money which comes only to men who have money of their own. I
                        don"t care a fig for money for its own sake. I want it as a tool with which I may do my
                        work."
                    "I think I understand you," answered Hallam, after a few
                        minutes" reflection. "You shall have the tools. You have already put away
                        two-thirds of your salary from month to month. I have to-day multiplied that salary by three.
                        You"ll soon have "grub stakes" for any enterprise you may choose to
                        enter upon. But that isn"t all. If it were, it would mean that I am to lose you
                        presently. I don"t mean to do that. You are too good a man for a clerk. I propose to
                        make of you a partner in all my outside enterprises. I must go now. I"ve five people to
                        meet at ten o clock. Come to me after that hour, if you"re sufficiently rested, and
                        we"ll talk business."
                    "Oh, I"m sufficiently rested already. I"ll join you at ten
                        or a little later, as I suppose you won"t be free till then."
                    Captain Will Hallam rose, grasped the hand of his companion, and, after a look into
                        his eyes, said:
                    
                    "You"re the right sort. You have vim, force, pathos, and energy.
                        You and I, working together, will salivate things in a way that will make Calomel ashamed of
                        itself."
                    "But how about Kennedy and his discharge?" asked Duncan.
                    "Oh, that"s settled. I"ve sent him his quittance papers,
                        and he"s your enemy for all time. You can stand that."
                    "Yes, so long as you are my friend."
                
                
                
                    XI
                    THE WAYS
                        OF GUILFORD DUNCAN
                    
                    DURING all this time Guilford Duncan had been taking his meals at the little boarding
                        house of Mrs. Deming. The other boarders a dozen in all, perhapsdid not interest him at first,
                        and for a. time he took his meals in silence, except for courteous "
                        good-mornings" and "good-evenings." His table companions were mainly
                        young clerks of various grades, with whose ideas and aspirations young Duncan was very slightly
                        in sympathy.
                    After a time, however, he decided that it was his duty to cultivate acquaintance with
                        these table companions, in whom he recognized private soldiers in the great army of workthe men
                        upon whom the commanders of all degrees must rely for the execution of their plans.
                    Accordingly, Duncan began to take an active part in the conversations going on about
                        him, and little by little he injected so much of interest into them that whenever he spoke he
                        was listened to with special attention. Without assuming superiority of any kind, he came to be
                        recognized as in fact superior. He  came to be a sort
                        of Autocrat of the Breakfast Table, directing the conversations there into new channels and
                        better ones.
                    It was his practice to buy and read all the magazines as they appeared, including the
                        particularly interesting eclectic periodicals of that time, in which the best European thought
                        was fairly represented.
                    His reading furnished him many interesting themes for table talk, and presently the
                        brightest ones among his companions there began to question him further concerning the subjects
                        he thus mentioned. After a little while some of them occasionally borrowed reading matter of
                        him, by way of still further satisfying their interest in the matters of which he talked at
                        table.
                    A little later still, these brighter young men, one by one, began to visit
                        Duncan"s room in the evenings. In the free and easy fashion of that time and region, he
                        made them welcome without permitting their coming or going to disturb his own evening
                        occupations in any serious way. His room was very large, well warmed, and abundantly lighted,
                        for he had almost a passion for light. There was always a litter of new magazines, weekly
                        periodicals, and the like on the big table in the centre of the room, and there were always
                        piles of older ones in the big closet. Still further there was a stand of bookshelves which was
                        beginning to be crowded with books bought one by one as they came out, or as Duncan felt the
                        need of  them. Literature was the young man"
                        only extravagance, and that was not a very expensive one.
                    "Welcome! Help yourself! Read what you like and you won"t disturb
                        me." That was the spirit of his greeting to all these his friends whenever they entered
                        his door, and it was not long before the room of the young Virginian became a center of good
                        influence among the young men of the town.
                    How greatly such an influence was needed the bank officers and other
                        "solid" men of the city well knew and strongly felt. Pew of them ever thought
                        of reading anything themselves except the commercial columns of the newspapers, but they had
                        reasons of their own for recognizing the good work Guilford Duncan was quietly doing, by
                        cultivating the reading habit among their clerks.
                    Cairo was an ill-organized community at that time. The great majority of its people
                        were "newcomers," from all quarters of the country, who had as yet scarcely
                        learned to know each other. War operations had filled the town for several years past with
                        shifting crowds of adventurers of all sorts, who found in disturbed conditions their opportunity
                        to live by prey. There were gambling houses and other evil resorts in dangerous numbers, where
                        soldiers and discharged soldiers on their way through the place were tempted to their ruin by
                        every lure of vice and every case of opportunity to go astray.
                    The solid men deplored these conditions, but were  as yet powerless to better them. After the rush of discharged soldiers
                        through the town ceased, the evil influences began to operate more directly upon the clerks and
                        other young men of the city itself. Some who had begun life there with every prospect of worthy
                        careers had sunk into degradation through vicious indulgence. Others who still managed to hold
                        their places in business and to do their work tolerably were manifestly falling into habits that
                        darkened their futures. In two or three instances young men of good bringing up, who had earned
                        enviable reputations for diligence and good conduct, were lured into the gambling dens, robbed
                        there, and at last were tempted to defalcations and even sheer robberies of the employers who
                        trusted them. In one conspicuous case a youth who had won special regard among the better people
                        by the tender care he was taking of his mother, and by diligence and faithfulness in his work,
                        fell a victim to the passion of gambling, robbed money packages that passed through his hands as
                        a cashier in an express office, was caught, convicted, and sentenced to prison as a common
                        felon, to the saddening of all the town.
                    Under such circumstances even the least cultivated of the hard-headed business men
                        could not fail to regard with special pleasure the silent work that Duncan was doing for the
                        salvation of at least a considerable group of young men who might otherwise have fallen victims
                        to the evil conditions that beset them.
                    
                    Apart from his association with the young men who frequented his room, Duncan had no
                        social life at all. He never visited at any house, except that Captain Hallam frequently had him
                        to a meal over which the two might "talk business," or where he might meet and
                        help entertain prominent men of affairs from other cities, whose visits were inspired by
                        commercial purposes far more than by considerations of a social nature.
                    It created some little astonishment, therefore, when one day at the boarding house
                        table, Duncan said to those about him:
                    "I hear that you fellows are organizing some sort of club for social
                        purposes. Why haven"t you given me a chance to join?"
                    "We didn"t think you would care for such things. You never go out,
                        you know, and"
                    "What is the purpose of your organization, if you don"t mind my
                        asking?"
                    "Oh, certainly not. We"re simply making up a little group, which we
                        call "The Coterie," to have a few dancing parties and amateur concerts, and
                        the like, in the big hotel dining room, during the winter. We"ve a notion that the
                        young people of Cairo ought to know each other better. Our idea is to promote social intercourse
                        and so we"re all chipping in to pay the cost, which won"t be much."
                    "Well, may I chip in with the rest?"
                    Seeing glad assent in every countenance, he held  out his hand for the subscription paper, and put down his name for just
                        double the largest subscription on it. Then passing it back ho said:
                    "I think I may be able to secure some support for so good an undertaking,
                        from the business men of the city and from othersthe lawyers, doctors, and the like. Your
                        entertainments certainly ought to have the benefit of their countenance. At any rate,
                        I"ll see what I can do. I don"t know that I shall myself be able to attend the
                        dances and the likein fact, I"m sure I shall notbut I"ll do what I can to help
                        the cause along."
                    He did what lie could, and. what he could was much. The solid men, when he brought
                        the subject to their attention, felt that this was an extension of that work of
                        Duncan"s for the betterment of the town, which they so heartily approved. They
                        subscribed freely to the expense, and better still, they lent personal countenance to the
                        entertainments.
                    Guilford Duncan also attended one of the entertainments, though it had been his fixed
                        purpose not to do so. The reason was that Guilford Duncan was altogether human and a
                        full-blooded young man. From the time of his arrival at Cairo until now, he had not had any
                        association with women. When such association came to him he accepted it as a boon, without
                        relaxing, in any degree, his devotion to affairs.
                    It was the old story, related in a thousand forms,  but always with the same purport, since ever the foundations of the world
                        were laid.
                    "Male and female created he them." "And God saw that it
                        was good."
                    All of human history is comprehended in those two sentences quoted from the earliest
                        history of mankind.
                
                
                
                    XII
                    BARBARA VERNE
                    
                    THE person who had originated and who conducted Mrs. Deming"s boarding
                        housefamous for its farewas, in fact, not Mrs. Deming at all. That good lady would pretty
                        certainly have scored a failure if she had tried actively to manage such an establishment. She
                        had never in her life known necessity for work of any kind, or acquired the least skill in its
                        doing. She had been bred in luxury and had never known any other way of living until a few
                        months before Guilford Duncan went to take his meals at what was known as her
                        "table."
                    She had lived in a spacious and sumptuously furnished suburban house near an eastern
                        city, until two years or so before the time of this story.
                    When Barbara Verne, her only sister"s child, was born and orphaned within a
                        single day, and under peculiarly saddening circumstances, the aunt had adopted her quite as a
                        matter of course.
                    No sooner had Barbara ceased to be an infant in arms than she began to manifest
                        strong and peculiar traits of character. Even as a little child she was wondered at as
                        "so queerso old fashioned, don"t you know?"
                    
                    She had a healthy child"s love for her dolls, and though the persons around,
                        her had not enough clearness of vision to see that she was fruitfully and creatively imaginative
                        in her peculiar way, her dolls" nursery was full of wonderful stories, known only to
                        herself and the dolls. Every doll there had a personality, a history, and a character of its
                        own. Barbara was the intimate of all of themthe confidential friend and companion, who listened
                        to their imagined recitals of griefs and joys with a sympathetic soul, counseled them in a
                        prematurely old way, chided them gently but firmly for their mistakes, commended good conduct
                        whenever she discovered it in them, and almost mercilessly rebuked such shortcomings as common
                        sense should have spared them. For commonsense was Barbara"s dominant characteristic.
                    She never told their stories to anybody. That, she felt, would have been to betray
                        their confidence shamefully. It was only by eavesdropping on the part of her nursery maid, and
                        by casual overhearings of her talk with her dolls that their life stories became known to
                        anybody except herself.
                    And Barbara quickly put an end to the eavesdropping when she discovered it. She had a
                        French nursery governess, Mathilde, whose double function it was to look after the child and to
                        teach her French by talking to her only in that tongue. The maid, in fact, made the child teach
                        her English, by talking with her chiefly in that language.
                    
                    That, however, was an offense the child did not consider. She did not greatly value
                        instruction in French " English is so much better," she used to say to her
                        aunt. "And besides, nobody ever talks in French. So why should we bother about it? Of
                        course, I like to have La Fontaine"s Fables read to me, and I like to read them to my
                        dolls, because the dolls always enjoy them."
                    "How do you know that, Barbara?"
                    "Why, because they never interrupt. When I tell them "make
                        up" stories of my own, they often interrupt me. They "want to know,"
                        and sometimes I can"t tell them. But with La Fontaine"s stories it is never
                        so. Still I don"t think French is of much consequence."
                    That was the ill-informed and immature judgment of a child of seven or eight years.
                        Perhaps the other judgment with which that same child coupled it in the lectures she sometimes
                        gave her French nursery governess was sounder.
                    "Mathilde, you are an eavesdropper," she solemnly said to the girl
                        one night. "You hide behind the door and listen while Phillida tells me about the way
                        Corydon treats her. And you listen while I tell Phillida not to be foolish, and while I talk to
                        Corydon about his behavior. I shouldn"t mind that so much, Mathilde, if you
                        didn"t laugh at the dolls and their troubles. I don"t like that."
                    But, notwithstanding the child"s imaginative gift,  she was intensely practical, in a quick-witted way that often
                        astonished those about her. She had an eager desire to learn domestic arts, and her peculiar
                        conscientiousness in the doing of whatever she undertook to do, usually resulted in a skill
                        superior to that of her teachers.
                    She loved to haunt the kitchen, where her courtesy won even the cantankerous cook for
                        a friend and from her the girl learned so much of her art that the cook could teach her no more.
                        In the laundry the good-natured Irish woman who presided over that department of household
                        economy gave her always so warm a welcome that the child came to think of the faithful woman as
                        one of her choicest friends. Working with her over a little ironing board, Barbara quickly
                        became expert in all the finer and more delicate operation of her art, or as the laundress
                        herself said:
                    "Shure, the blissed choild puts the raal Oirish accint into the
                        doin" up of a pretty frock."
                    When she grew a little older, Barbara"s French nursery governess left her,
                        and from that hour, almost without knowing it, the child took her education largely into her own
                        hands, and her aunt stood too much in awe of her almost preternatural resoluteness, to interfere
                        in any serious way. She provided masters for the child, but it was the girl herself and not the
                        masters who decided what she should learn.
                    In that early time it was not generally thought  necessary, or even, desirable, to send girls away from home to study in
                        colleges in company with boysto learn Latin, Greek, mathematics, and basketballto read the
                        indecencies of classic literatureand to mould themselves into an unlovely similitude to men. But
                        there were frivolities in the education of women then which were almost as conspicuous as are
                        the masculinities that have since taken their place.
                    In Barbara"s case neither of these influences was felt. Without quite
                        knowing what her own thought was, the girl early made up her mind that she would learn
                        thoroughly all things that a woman must practice in life, that she would make herself fit to do
                        a woman"s part in the world without any pretense whatever.
                    She was set at one time to learn the piano, as in that day every girl was, to the
                        saddening of human existence and the torturing of human nerves. After taking a few lessons
                        Barbara was shrewd enough to discover that she had no musical gifts worth cultivating. She
                        therefore promptly requested her aunt to dismiss her music master.
                    "Oh, but you must learn to play, you know, dear."
                    "Why must I, auntie?"
                    "Oh, well, every girl must, you know."
                    "But why, auntie?" persisted the little female Socrates.
                    "Why, it"s a necessary part of every girl"s education, you
                        know."
                    
                    "Oh, I know they all do it," answered the girl, "but most
                        of them would do better to leave it alone. You often say that it tortures you to hear girls
                        "pound the piano" when they want to show off. Now, I haven"t the gift
                        for music, and I don"t want to show off. Why should I learn to "pound the
                        piano" and make other people miserable?"
                    So the argument went on, and it ended at last, as it was predestined to end, in the
                        abandonment of the piano lessons, leaving Barbara to grow up in complete ignorance of an art
                        which, in that half-barbaric time, was deemed a necessary "accomplishment" of
                        every young woman who had fingers, whether she had any perception of music or not.
                    For the rest, Barbara educated herself upon lines which she deemed womanly. There was
                        no art of kitchen or laundry or sewing room in which, as she grew older, she did not make
                        herself the superior of the highly paid servitors whose skill her aunt employed to perform such
                        functions. For explanation she said only:
                    "I am to be a woman. I must know how to do all womanly things. If I
                        don"t know all that better than the servants do, I must always be dependent upon
                        servants. I think that would be humiliating."
                    In the same spirit she took up such school studies as she deemed proper to her
                        womanhood and only such. But she gave to each a degree of conscience that always surprised her
                        teachers. She had not the gift of  learning easily,
                        but her devotion was such that she learned thoroughly in spite of all the difficulties. She
                        early conceived the notion that she must know her own language wellhow to spell it, how to
                        pronounce it, and, still more, how to use it simply, honestly, and effectively in the expression
                        of her thought. Her over-mastering devotion to truth would not let her rest content with any
                        loose or inaccurate expression. "No," she would say, "that
                        isn"t the word I want. It doesn"t say just what I mean," and she
                        would never be satisfied until she found the word she did want.
                    The handwriting to which she schooled herself was in like manner scrupulously
                        truthful. The writing masters of that time cared far more for ornateness than for verity, or
                        even legibility. They laboriously taught their pupils to make "hair" lines for
                        upstrokes and heavily "shaded" ones for down. They deco-rated their capital
                        letters with meaningless flourishes, and they did many other things equally useless and
                        unworthy.
                    Barbara would have nothing to do with such insincerities. She would not even try to
                        learn them. She studied the essential form of each letter, and, discarding everything else, she
                        wrote, as she herself said, "so that other people might read easily." The
                        result was a dainty little round-lettered text, which had truth for its basis and uncompromising
                        sincerity for its inspiration.
                    Arithmetic gave her a good deal of trouble. Had  the mastery of that science been an "accomplishment," she
                        would have put it aside as one for which she had no gift, as she had done with music. But she
                        realized that one must acquire a certain facility in calculation, and she did all the work
                        necessary to acquire that facility. She puckered her pretty fore-head over the
                        "sums" that she had to do, and she often, all her life, employed roundabout
                        methods in doing them. But in the end she got the "answers" right, and that
                        was all that the little truth worshiper cared for in the case.
                    She early became fond of reading such books as appealed to her. She would never
                        consent to believe that she ought to read books that did not find
                        a response in her mind, merely on the ground that their reading was deemed a proper part of
                        every young person"s education.
                    "All that sort of thing is "show off,"" she used
                        to say. "It is a false pretense;" and she scorned all false pretenses.
                    Yet she was by no means an idly self-indulgent reader. She diligently mastered some
                        books that did not particularly interest her, because she believed them to contain information
                        or instruction or counsel that might benefit her.
                    When she was only a dozen years old or so, the little woman took upon herself the
                        duties of housekeeper in her aunt"s mansion, and kept order there m a way that won
                        something like local fame for herself. It  was not
                        art, or intuition, or rule that inspired her. It was temperament.
                    Absolute cleanliness was to her a religion, and the servant who fell in the remotest
                        way short of that was quickly made to think of herself as an unregenerate sinner. Absolute
                        neatness was another requirement which the budding little woman inisted upon with relentless
                        persistence. Then again it seemed to her that there was no possible excuse for any cooking short
                        of the best.
                    "Why should a beefsteak be scorched?" she would ask protestingly.
                        "It is only a question of attention and honesty. Why should the aroma be boiled out of
                        a pot of coffee? Again, it is only a matter of attention and honesty." That was her
                        attitude always, and the servant who hoped to please her must ceaselessly recognize it.
                    Sometimes her aunt would plead for a little lenity in these matters, but the girl
                        would grant none. "The servants are employed to do things right. Why should I let them
                        do things wrong? They profess to have skill in such work. Surely, they ought to do it as well as
                        I can, who have no skill. And besides, it wouldn"t be good for them to let them off
                        with less than the best. They would degenerate. They have their living to make by work, and the
                        better work they do the better work they can do."
                    A few years later the aunt"s husband met with misfortune and went to the
                        West. Presently he died,  and Barbara"s aunt
                        was widowed and impoverished at one and the same time.
                    Then it was that Barbara rose in the strength of her practical wisdom, and met the
                        emergency with all of character that she had built up. Her aunt was helpless, so Barbara took
                        matters into her own hands. She was nearly twenty years old then, and her capacities as a
                        housekeeper had ripened through use until she felt modestly confident of herself.
                        "Besides," she argued, "there is nobody else to do things if I
                        don"t."
                    She persuaded her aunt to take a little house with a big sunny dining room, find
                        there she offered to the young bachelors of the townin her aunt"s namebetter meals than
                        they could get at the pretentious hotel, and she charged them scarcely more than half the hotel
                        rate.
                    One by one the best of the young men in the town were drawn to Barbara"s
                        table until the dining room was filled. After that anyone who wished to join the circle must put
                        his name upon a waiting list, and bide his time till there should be a vacancy. For Barbara held
                        that it would be unjust to crowd present boarders in order to take new ones, and she hated all
                        injustice. The waiting list was always long, for the fame of Barbara"s table was great.
                    When her friends suggested an increase in her charges, she promptly said them nay.
                        "I"m charging enough," she answered. "The gentlemen  pay us enough to keep auntie and me comfortable.
                        They have to work hard for their money, and it would be very mean to charge them more, merely
                        because they"ll pay it rather than get their meals anywhere else."
                    "Perhaps so," answered Captain Will Hallam, who had pressed this
                        advice upon the girl. "But it"s always good business, you know, to get what
                        you can. A thing is worth what it will sell for, and your good dinners, Miss Barbara, would sell
                        for a good deal more than you are charging for them."
                    But Barbara would not listen to the wisdom of "business." Hers was
                        the wisdom of a white soul, and it controlled her absolutely.
                    And it really was her own skill that made her table famous. She hired a cook, of
                        course, after her little business became prosperous, and sometimes for a brief while she trusted
                        to the cook"s skill. Then her conscience beset her because the breakfasts and dinners
                        and suppers were not prepared in that perfection which alone could satisfy this conscientious
                        little woman"s soul. "You see, it isn't honest, aunty," she
                        would say in explanation whenever she returned to the kitchen and gave personal attention to
                        every detail. "We are charging these young gentlemen for their meals, and it seems to
                        me dishonest if we give them less than the best that we can. They come to us because they have
                        heard that we serve the best meals that can be had in Cairo. How mean and wrong it  would be for us to trade upon that reputation and
                        give them meals of an inferior quality! I simply can"t get a cook who will do things at
                        their best, and so I must do most of the cooking myself, and then I"ll know it is well
                        done."
                    She hired a "neat-handed Phyllis," in a cambric gownwhich Barbara
                        insisted must be fresh and clean every dayto wait upon the table. She hired a handy negro boy to
                        wash dishes, scrub, and prepare vegetables under her own direction. She did all the more
                        important part of the cooking herself, and the negro boy, Bob, simply worshiped the girl whom he
                        always addressed as "Little Missie."
                
                
                
                    XIII
                    A BATTLE
                        AND
                        AN ACQUAINTANCE
                    
                    THERE were boys in Cairo, of course, and equally of course some of them were bad. The
                        bad ones used to do things to annoy Robert"s "Little Missie." Robert
                        proceeded to thrash them upon every proper occasion, and he did it with a thoroughness that left
                        nothing to be desired thereafter. When Robert had thrashed a boy, that boy went to bed for
                        repairs. And he was apt to be reticent as to where and how he had received his bruises. That was
                        because Robert always ended a fist encounter with a warning.
                    "Ef you don"t want a double dose o" dis here
                        you"ll prehaps obstain f"um mentionin" de name o" de culled
                        gentleman wot gib it ter you."
                    And the victim usually "obstained." If he didn"t it was
                        presently the worse for him.
                    Robert had been born in the South. He had lived there till his fourteenth year. He
                        had there imbibed certain doctrines of pugnacious chivalry. There had been bred in his bone the
                        conviction that it was every  strong man"s
                        duty to protect every woman, and to punish any disrespect shown to her.
                    In Robert"s view there was only one gentlewoman in Cairohis "Little
                        Missie"and it seemed to him as clearly a matter of duty to protect her against
                        annoyance as it was to scrub the kitchen floor or to wash the dishes.
                    It was through one of Robert"s battles that Guilford Duncan became
                        acquainted with his hostess, Barbara Verne. That young woman very rarely appeared in the dining
                        room, and so the young Virginian had scarcely more than met her, when one morning on his way to
                        breakfast he came upon a battle between Robert "free man of color," as he
                        loved to call himselfand three Cairo boys who had waylaid him in order to avenge the punishment
                        he had given a few days before to one of them who had playfully hurled half a brick through
                        Barbara"s kitchen window.
                    When Duncan came upon the battlefield, Robert was backed up against a dead wall. Two
                        of his adversaries had gone to grass, and the third was hesitating to prosecute the attack
                        alone. Seeing his hesitation, Bobgreat stategist that he wasinstantly decided to convert his
                        successful defense into a successful offense, without delay. Quitting his defensive position
                        against the wall, he rushed upon his remaining adversary, who promptly retreated without waiting
                        to reckon up the casualties.
                    Then Bob jumped upon his other and slowly rising  antagonists, knocked them down again and hurriedly exacted of each a
                        "wish-I-may-die" promise to let "Little Missie" alone from
                        that day forth.
                    "Good for you, Bob!" exclaimed young Duncan. "But
                        we"ll make that promise more binding. Help me and I"ll take these young
                        ruffians before Judge Gross and compel them to give bonds for good behavior."
                    It didn"t take long to arraign the culprits, prove that they had thrown a
                        brickbat through Barbara"s window, and secure an order of the court requiring them to
                        give considerable bonds for good behavior in future.
                    This brought their parents into court and subjected them to a good deal of annoyance
                        and trouble. They had to give bonds, and more troublesome still, they had to control their boys.
                        Then again the newspapers published the facts.
                    In this way Guilford Duncan multiplied his enemies in Cairo. But he had a deep-seated
                        conviction that it is worth a man"s while to make enemies by doing right. In this
                        matter he had done only right. He had invoked the law for the protection of a woman, and he had
                        completely accomplished his purpose. He cared nothing for the revilings that ensued, but Ober,
                        the man of brains and character who edited the principal newspaper of the town, took the matter
                        up and made much of it.
                    "This town is barbaric," he wrote in his editorial columns.
                        "It owes sincere thanks to Mr. Guilford 
                        Duncan for teaching it that law is supreme, that it is to the law we should appeal in every case
                        of wrong doing. The parents of the young hoodlums who have been bound over to keep the peace
                        have long needed this lesson. This newspaper rejoices that the lesson has been given in so
                        emphatic and conspicuous a manner. It congratulates its young fellow citizen, Mr. Duncan, upon
                        the quality of his citizenship, and upon the results of its activity."
                    Within an hour after that editorial appeared, three columns of advertisements were
                        angrily withdrawn from Ober"s newspaper.
                    Within the next hour Captain Will Hallam quietly sent in nineteen columns of
                        advertisements, and wrote to Ober: "Stand by your guns and I"ll stand by you.
                        If the damned fools think they can squelch you or Duncan in such a case as this, we"ll
                        teach them better. Spread my advertisements all over the paper and send bills to me. Keep it up.
                        We"ll make Cairo a better town to live in, or we"ll know why. The thing to do
                        now is to make a systematic campaign against abuses. Do it with all your might, and
                        I"ll stand by you.
                    "I"ll get Duncan to help you. He"s a queer fellow, but he
                        knows how to use vitriol instead of ink, and it"s vitriol we need just now."
                    In the meanwhile the entire talk of the little city was of Duncan"s activity
                        in haling the hoodlum sons of highly "respectable" parents before a
                        magistrate, as a consequence of their battle with a "nigger." On  that subject tongues wagged busily, pro and con. The
                        friends of the aggrieved parents who had been forced to give bonds for the good behavior of
                        their ill-regulated offspring, indignantly made a "race issue" of a matter
                        which had nothing whatever to do with race prejudice.
                    They could not understand how a southerner and an ex-Confederate soldier could thus
                        have taken the part of a "nigger" against "respectable white
                        boys." Others who were clamorous for the "rights of the negro,"
                        rejoiced in Duncan as a convert to their doctrine.
                    Both were wrong, of course. Neither in the remotest way recognized the real impulses
                        of his act, namely, the impulse to protect a woman and the impulse of a law-loving citizen to
                        insist upon the equal enforcement of the law, for the sake of good order in the community. But
                        Duncan concerned himself with none of these things. He had done his simple duty ES a man and as
                        a citizen, and he had no care whatever for consequences.
                    And yet the consequences were such as vitally affected his entire career in more ways
                        than one. His performance brought him, for one thing, into close acquaintance with a certain
                        young woman whom he had scarcely known before, and whose destiny it was to influence the entire
                        future course of his life.
                    It was Duncan"s habit to sit long and smoke over his final cup of coffee at
                        the evening meal. The  other table boarders were
                        accustomed to hurry away as soon as they had swallowed their supper, leaving him in sole
                        possession of the dining room.
                    On the evening of the day on which the events already related occurred, he sat as
                        usual, smoking, sipping his coffee, and reading Ober"s evening newspaper. Presently
                        Barbara Verne entered, and with a manner in which extreme shyness was mingled with a resolute
                        determination to do the duty that lay before her, approached young Duncan and held out her hand.
                        As he rose deferentially to greet her, taking her proffered hand in his, the girl said:
                    "I"ve come to thank you, Mr. Duncan. It was very kind of youto
                        protect Robert, you knowand me. I"m Barbara Verne. Thank you, ever so much."
                    As she made her little speech the brave but timid girl looked him in the eyes with
                        the embarrassed front of a child set to do a duty, mingled with the calm composure of a woman
                        who knows and cherishes the dignity of her womanhood.
                    Duncan protested that no thanks were due him for doing his simple duty, and, after a
                        word or two more, the girl quitted the room, while Duncan, gallantly bowing, held the door open
                        for her.
                    The little interview lasted for less than two minutes, and not an unnecessary word
                        was spoken on either side. Yet it seemed to Duncan an event of consequence, as indeed, it proved
                        to be.
                    Something in the girl s voices or manner, or something  in her eyes, or something in nor grace of movement, her bearing, her mingled
                        simplicity and dignityor something in all these combinedhad mightily impressed him. He had seen
                        little of women in any intimate way, and while he honored womanhood and deferred to it, as every
                        sound-souled man must, he had thought himself quite indifferent to women in their individual
                        personality. But somehow he could not feel so with Barbara Verne, and later in the evening he
                        scourged himself for his folly in continuing to think of her to the interruption of the reading
                        he had set himself to do.
                    "What"s the matter with me?" he asked himself almost with
                        irritation, as at last he laid down the volume of Herbert Spencer"s Social Statics,
                        over which he had been laboring in vain. "I can"t read a single paragraph with
                        understanding. I can"t keep my attention upon the lines as I read them. I must be tired
                        outthough I don"t know what has tired me. Fortunately I"ve no visitors
                        to-night. They have all gone to hear the Swiss Bell Ringers at the Athenaeum. I wonder if
                        anybody took Barbara Verne?"
                    Thus his thought came back again to the girl and he was annoyed with himself for
                        having permitted that.
                    "I do not know the girl at all," he reflected. "Except to
                        bow a distant "good-morning" or "good-evening" at infrequent
                        intervals, I never spoke to her until  this evening,
                        and then the interview was one of purely formal courtesy. And yet here I am thinking about her
                        so persistently that even Herbert Spencer cannot win my attention."
                    Then he sat for a time trying to think of something else, or trying, with renewed
                        resolution, to concentrate his attention upon his book.
                    The effort was a dismal failure. Barbara Verne"s eyes gazed softly at him
                        out of the page, her gentle voice echoed in his ears, and the simple, straightforward words of
                        thanks that she had spoken thrust out of his mind the words of the great philosopher, as the
                        youth endeavored to read them.
                    He was sitting, in his dressing gown, with his slippered feet resting upon a stool.
                        In the large grate a mass of Pittsburg coal blazed and flickered restfully. At his elbow softly
                        burned a shaded student lamp, on a table covered with a scarlet and black cloth, and littered
                        with books. The curtainsinexpensive, but heavywere closely drawn to shut out every suggestion of
                        the wintry night outside.
                    "Confound it," muttered the young man aloud, as he again threw down
                        the book, this time without marking his place; "if I weren"t so supremely
                        comfortable here, I"d get myself into my clothes again and go out to fight the night
                        for a while. That would be the right thing to do, but I"m too self-indulgent to do it.
                        Wonder if Barbara Verne ever shirked a duty for the sake of comfort?"
                    
                    Thus he began again to think of the girl.
                    "She"s a new type to me," he thought, as he gazed into the
                        fire. "She seems almost a child, and yet altogether a woman. Wonder what her life has
                        been. I fancy she felt, when she came in to thank me, like a child who has been naughty and is
                        required to make a proper apology. There was certainly a suggestion of that sort of thing in her
                        manner, just at first. Then the strong woman in her mastered the child, and she carried out her
                        determination resolutely. It is very charming, that combination of shy child- likeness, with the
                        self-control of a strong woman."
                    At this point Guilford Duncan impatiently kicked over his footrest, rose to his feet
                        and began dressing for the out of doors. "What an idiot I am!" he thought.
                        "Here I am presuming to analyze the moods and motives of a young woman of whose life
                        and character I know nothing whatever, and with whom I have exchanged not more than a dozen or
                        twenty sentences in all my life. You need a drenching in the storm, Guilford Duncan, and you
                        shall have it, in the interest of your sanity."
                    Donning his boots and overcoat, and pulling his slouch hat well down over his eyes
                        and ears, the young man strode out into the storm.
                    When he came back at midnight, drenched and chilled, his fire had burned itself out.
                        After he had rubbed his damp skin into a healthful glow, he extinguished the lamp and crawled
                        into bed.
                    
                    In spite of all, however, Guilford Duncan was still thinking of Barbara Verne, when,
                        at last, he sank to sleep. His final thought of her took the form of a resolution:
                    "I will call upon her, and become really acquainted with her. That will cure
                        me of this strange and utterly absurd fascination. Of course the girl must be common place in
                        the main, and when I come to realize that, the glamour will fade away."
                
                
                
                    XIV
                    'A SOCIAL ADVANCE
                    
                    GUILFORD DUNCAN carried out his purpose, as he thought, with a good deal of tact. He
                        began by calling, not upon Barbara, but upon three or four other young womena thing he had never
                        done before. He thought in this way to make his call upon Barbara, when it should come, an
                        inconspicuous event. To his surprise, his entrance thus into society created something of a
                        flutter among the women-folk, especially the married women who had marriageable daughters, or
                        who were matchmakingly interested in other young women, not their daughters.
                    For Guilford Duncan, the moment he was thought of as a social factor, and a
                        matrimonial possibility, was seen to be the "best catch" in the little city,
                        the most desirable young man in the town. He was young and distinctly handsome. He was a man of
                        education, culture, and superior intelligence. His manners were easy, polished, and very
                        winning, Especially he treated women with a certain chivalric  deference, that pleased them even more than they knew. Captain Will
                        Hallam"s wife, who was the social leader of the city, said to him one day:
                    "You must be careful what you do in the way of paying attention to young
                        women. A very little attention on your part is apt to mean a great deal to a girland still more
                        to her mamma."
                    "But why should it?" asked Duncan, in unfeigned astonishment.
                        "Why should ordinary social courtesy on my part mean more than the same thing means in
                        the case of any other young man?"
                    "I don"t know that I can tell you," she answered.
                        "At least, I don"t know that I can make you understand."
                    "I sincerely wish you would try. I certainly do not want to" He
                        hesitated, and did not complete the sentence.
                    "Oh, I know all that. I know what you mean, because it is what I mean. I
                        tell you that if you pay more than just a little, and a very casual, attention to any girl, the
                        girl, and, worse still, all her elderly female relatives, are likely to misconstrue your
                        motives. You are in serious danger of breaking some tender hearts, and winning for yourself the
                        reputation of being that most detestable thinga male flirt."
                    "But really, Mrs. Hallam," interrupted the perplexed young man,
                        "I don"t understand "
                    "Of course you don"t, and of course I"m glad you  don"t. You"d be a detestably
                        conceited popinjay if you did. But I do, and in a strictly limited way I"m going to
                        explain it to you for your own good, and as a warning. I can"t explain it fully without
                        treason to my own sex. But I"ll tell you this much: you have a singularly pleasing,
                        soothing, caressing, and most winning manner with womenall women. You are respectfulno, that
                        isn"t the word. You are courteously gentle and deferential, and solicitous to give
                        pleasure. Anyhow, you please women. Then, again, you have made yourself the most conspicuous
                        young man in Cairo, and everybody counts upon your success as certain. There, I"m not
                        going to explain further; I only warn you."
                    "But, Mrs. Hallam, I have not called more than twice upon any one girl,
                        and"
                    "Well, don"t. That"s all I"ve got to
                        say."
                    Duncan went away puzzled. He had intended to be very shrewd and circumspect in this
                        matter. He had intended, by calling once or twice upon each of several young women, to deprive
                        the calls he intended to make upon Barbara of any look of significance, and now, before he had
                        even begun to cultivate acquaintance with Barbara, he found his small preparatory callings the
                        subject of curiosity and gossip.
                    He was resolved not to be balked of his purpose, however. He saw no reason to permit
                        that. He would go that very evening to see Barbara, and he  would repeat the visit from time to time, until a fuller acquaintance with
                        the girl should cure him of his fascination. Acquaintance must do that, he was persuaded.
                    He carried out his part of the program resolutely. If the results were not precisely
                        what he expected, and intended, the fault was not his own.
                    Barbara Verne was not accustomed to receive visits from young men. She was almost too
                        young, for one thing, or, at least, she had been almost too young until about this time.
                        Moreover, her life was unusually secluded. She devoted all her time to her exacting household
                        duties. Except that she attended church once each Sunday, she was never seen in any public
                        place, or anywhere else, outside of her aunt"s house, or the house of her single
                        friendMrs. Richardsa retiring matron, who neither received company nor went out anywhere. These
                        twothe young girl and the middle-aged matronwere somewhat more than intimate in their affection,
                        but apart from this one friend, Barbara visited nobody. The young women of the town did not
                        think of her, therefore, as one of themselves at all. They regarded her rather as a child than
                        as a young woman, though if they had troubled to think about the matter, they would have
                        remembered that she was as old as some of themselves.
                    When Guilford Duncan made his first call upon  Barbara, therefore, that young person was very greatly astonished, but she
                        was in no way embarrassed. It was her nature to meet all circumstances and all events frankly,
                        and to do with conscientious faithfulness whatsoever she conceived to be her duty. So when
                        Guilford Duncan called upon her, she promptly put away her surprise, and entered the little
                        parlor to greet him.
                    She did not keep him waiting, and he specially liked that. He was apt to be impatient
                        of waiting. She did not think it necessary to change her gown. It was her habit to dress with
                        exceeding simplicity and extreme neatness. She could not afford anything pretentious in dress,
                        and she would make no false pretense. Besides, she owned no better gown than the one of French
                        calico, which she was already wearing.
                    So, without a minute"s wait, Barbara walked into the parlor and greeted her
                        visitor, not without some lingering trace of surprise at the honor done her, but with no touch
                        of foolish embarrassment in her manner. Barbara was simply her own sweet, natural self, and when
                        Duncan went away, after his call, the glamour of her personality was more strongly upon him than
                        ever.
                    "She, at least," he thought as he walked toward the levee,
                        "will not misconstrue my call, as Mrs. Hallam suggests. She is too womanly, too
                        sincere, too genuine for that. I shall call again very soon,  though, now that I think of it, she forgot to ask me to do so. Never mind.
                        I"ll manufacture some excuseoh, by Jove, I have it! "The Coterie" is
                        to give a fancy dress dance a week from to-night. I"ll invite her to go. I wonder if
                        she will accept. I hope so, but even if she doesn"t, the invitation will give me ample
                        excuse for calling. I"ll do it to-morrow evening. I suppose women need a little time to
                        get ready for such functions. Anyhow, I"ll call on her to-morrow evening and invite
                        her. I wonder if anybody else has anticipated me in that? No, I"ll wager not. I never
                        heard of her going out, or even of anybody calling upon her. Still," he reflected, as
                        he mounted to his room and lighted his lamp and his fire, "that sort of thing might
                        happen." Then, after a pause: "I reckon I"d better send her a note to
                        prepare her. I"ll write it to-night, and leave it at breakfast in the morning. She
                        never quits the kitchen regions while breakfast is on. I wonder if she"s as neat, and
                        trim, and pretty when she"s making coffee, or doing whatever it is that they do to ham,
                        as she always is when she visits other parts of the house?"
                    Turning, he locked his door. That was a very unusual proceeding on his part, as it
                        was well understood that his "latchstring was always out" of an evening, and
                        the young men, who were in the habit of reading in his room, were accustomed to open and enter
                        at will, without the formality of knocking.
                    A moment later, some one confidently turned the  door-knob. Instantly Duncan realized the situation and came to his senses. He
                        abandoned his purpose of writing to Barbara, as an absurdity, and promptly unlocked the door to
                        the visitor, making some sort of excuse for his forgetfulness in having fastened it.
                    When he called upon Barbara the next evening, and asked her to attend the dance under
                        his escort, her astonishment was manifest, in spite of her best endeavors to conceal it. She had
                        never before been invited to such a function, and she had not dreamed of this. That, however,
                        was not her greatest occasion for surprise. In her modesty she had never thought of herself as
                        in any way the fellow or equal of the other girls in town, who were eagerly invited to attend
                        everything in the way of entertainments. If any other young man in town had asked her to be his
                        partner on this occasion, she would have regarded the occurrence as a surprising one; to be
                        asked by Guilford Duncan was more astonishing than all. She knew the high place he had won for
                        himself in Cairo. She knew that he was everywhere regarded as altogether the superior of all the
                        other young men intellectually, morally, socially, and in all other ways. She regarded him as
                        aristocrat among men, a man who had always held aloof from the society around hint, as if it
                        were quite unworthy of his attention. She had woman"s instinct enough, too, to know how
                        greatly honored any other girl in the city would feel if asked by him to any function. The  fact that lie had asked her instead of some other,
                        puzzled her almost to bewilderment.
                    At first she gave him no answer. She was obviously thinking, and Duncan let her think
                        on. He thought she looked exceedingly pretty while thinking. He observed a slight puckering of
                        her forehead at the time, which seemed to him to add interest to her face. After a little she
                        aid:
                    "Thank you, Mr. Duncan, for your invitation. I am more pleased with it than
                        I can say. But I think I must ask you to excuse me. I think I can"t possibly go to the
                        dance."
                    "May I ask why not? Do you not care for dancing and society?"
                    "Oh, I care very muchor, rather," she added, with scrupulous
                        fidelity to truth"I should care very much to attend this partyI should enjoy it more
                        than anything, but"
                    "Will you think me impertinent," Duncan asked, when she thus
                        stopped in the middle of her sentence, "will you think me impertinent if I ask you what
                        comes after that word "but?""
                    " Oh, I think you mustn"t ask me that. At least, I think I
                        mustn"t answer you."
                    "Very well," replied the young man, pleased with the
                        girl"s manner, in spite of his disappointment over her hesitation. "May I make
                        a suggestion? If you had simply said "no" to my invitation, of course I should
                        not think of urging it upon you. But what  you have
                        said shows me that you would welcome it, if there were not something in the way. Perhaps you can
                        overcome the difficulty. Will you not try? Will you not take a little time to think, and perhaps
                        to consult with your friends?"
                    "I should like to, but that would be unfair to you. It might deprive you of
                        an opportunity to ask some-one else."
                    "I shall ask no one else. I shall not attend the affair at all, unless I am
                        privileged to escort you. If I may, I will call to-morrow evening, and every evening, until you
                        can give me your decision."
                    There was a certain masterfulness in his manner further and utterance, which seemed
                        to leave no chance for further discussion. So Barbara simply said:
                    "Very well. I"ll be ready to answer you to-morrow evening. I
                        suppose I am ready now, but you wish me to wait, and it shall be so."
                    Duncan hurriedly took his leave. Perhaps he feared that if he stayed longer, the girl
                        might make her "no" a final one. Otherwise he hoped for a better outcome.
                    When he had gone, poor little Bab sat for a time in bewilderment. She still could not
                        understand why such a man as Guilford Duncanwhom everybody regarded as the "coming
                        man" in Cairoshould have chosen her, instead of some other, as the recipient of his
                        invitation. She could not still a certain fluttering 
                        about her heart. She was full of joy, and yet she was sorely grieved that she must put aside
                        what seemed to her a supreme opportunity to be happy for a time.
                    It was always her way, when any emotion pleased or troubled her, to go to her friend,
                        Mrs. Richards, for strength and soothing. So, now she suddenly sprang up, put on her hat and
                        wraps, and hurried to her one friend"s home. The distance was so small that she needed
                        no escort, particularly as Robert, who happened to be at the gate, could see her throughout the
                        little journey. And she knew that the faithful negro boy would wait there until her return.
                    "You are all in a flurry, child," said her friend, for greeting.
                        "What is it about? Do you come to me for advice, or sympathy, or consolation?"
                    For Mrs. Richards knew of Duncan"s visit, and With a shrewd woman"s
                        wit she guessed that Barbara"s disturbance of mind was in some way connected with that
                        event.
                    "No," answered the girl. "I didn"t come to
                        consult youat least I think I didn"tit is only that something has happened, and I want
                        to tell you about it."
                    "Very well, dear. Go on."
                    "Oh, it"s nothing very important. I don"t know why I feel
                        about it as I do, but"
                    "Perhaps if you tell me what it is, I may help you to solve your riddles.
                        What is it?"
                    
                    "Why, only that Mr. Guilford Duncan has asked me to go with him to the party
                        next week."
                    "Well, go on. I see nothing strange in that."
                    "Whydon"t you understand, it is Mr.
                            Duncan, and he has asked me."
                    "I see nothing yet to wonder at," calmly replied her friend.
                        "Indeed, it seems to be quite natural. I have understood Mr. Duncan to be a gentleman
                        of un-commonly good taste. If he has made up his mind to attend the dance, why
                        shouldn"t he choose for his partner, the best, the dearest, and most charming girl in
                        the city? Of course you are going?"
                    "Why, no, of course I can"t. I told him so, but he urged me to
                        postpone a final decision till to-morrow evening. I thought that would be useless, and that the
                        delay might make him miss a chance to engage some other girl; but he insisted that he
                        wasn"t going at all unless I would go with him, so just because he seemed to wish it, I
                        promised to wait till to-morrow evening before saying a final "no." Some how
                        you simply have to do what Mr. Duncan wants you to do, you know."
                    "Mr. Guilford Duncan is rising rapidly in my estimation," answered
                        Barbara"s friend. "I have understood that he is a man of good sense and good
                        taste. Obviously he deserves that high repute. Your "no" must be
                        "yes," Bab."
                    "Oh, but that"s impossible!"
                    "I don"t see it."
                    
                    "Why, you know I can"t afford a
                        gown."
                    "I still don"t see it. It"s to be a fancy dress affair, I
                        believe?"
                    "Yes, of course."
                    "Then you can go in any character you like. You"ve your drab-gray
                        dress, and it"s as fresh as new. I"ll go over to your house and alter it for
                        you. Then with a white cape of Bishop"s lawn, and a white cap and apron, we"ll
                        make you into the most charming little Quaker maiden imaginable. The character will just suit
                        you, because you suit it. That matter is settled. Go home now and go to bed, and you
                        mustn"t dream of anything but "yes.""
                    So the good woman fended off thanks, and sent the happy girl home with an enhanced
                        sense of the value of friendship.
                
                
                
                    XV
                    THE COMING OUT
                        OF BARBARA
                    
                    THERE was a flutter throughout the ball-room when Guilford Duncan, in the costume of
                        Hamlet, ushered in Barbara Verne, in her Quaker-maid"s dress. The impulses behind the
                        flutter were various, but surprise was the dominant one.
                    Nobody had expected the reserved young Virginian to attend the function. Nobody had
                        dreamed of seeing Barbara Verne there. Still more certainly, nobody had expected Duncan to
                        escort "the daughter of his landlady,"" as one of the chattering
                        mammas spitefully called Barbara.
                    "Upon my word, the girl is pretty, when she"s made up that
                        way," said another.
                    "She is more than pretty," quietly interposed Mrs. Will Hallam;
                        "she is the most beautiful girl in the room. And she is far less "made
                        up" than any of the rest. Her costume is simplicity itself. I"m glad the dear
                        girl is here."
                    The gracious lady presently beckoned to Duncan, who promptly responded. Then taking
                        some pains  that those about her should hear every
                        word, she said:
                    "Thank you, Duncan, for bringing Barbara, and my sincerest congratulations
                        on your good taste. I was just saying, when I caught your eye, that she is the most beautiful
                        girl in the room, and certainly she is the most charming. You must bring her to me for a
                        greeting and congratulations, when the first set is over. There goes the music, now.
                        Don"t stop to answer me."
                    Mrs. Hallam"s little speech, and the marked favor she showed to Barbara
                        throughout the evening, rather stimulated, than checked, the malicious chatter of the half dozen
                        women who were disposed, on behalf of their daughters, to feel jealous of Bab. But they were at
                        pains that Mrs. Hallam should not hear them. For that lady was conspicuously the social queen of
                        the city and, gracious as she was, she had a certain clever way of making even her politest
                        speeches sting like a whip-lash when she was moved to rebuke petty meanness of spirit.
                    "What on earth can young Duncan mean?" asked one of them when the
                        group had placed distance between themselves and Mrs. Hallam, "by bringing that girl
                        here? She isn"t in society at all."
                    "I should say not. And Duncan is such an aristocrat, too."
                    "Perhaps that"s it. Maybe he has done this by way of showing his
                        contempt for Cairo society."
                    
                    "Oh, no," answered another. "He"s simply amusing
                        himself, like the male flirt that he is. He has paid marked attention to half a dozen lovely
                        girls in succession, and now he brings Barbara Verne here just to show them how completely he
                        has dropped them."
                    In the mean while Duncan was behaving with the utmost discretion. After the first set
                        was over, he danced with one after another of the young women upon whom he had lavished so much
                        of "marked attention" as may be implied from one, or at most two, formal calls
                        upon each.
                    But this circumspection did not stop the chatter.
                    "Wonder if Mrs. Hallam means to take the girl up? It would be just like her
                        to do that, she"s so fond of Duncan, you know; if she does "
                    "Pardon me, but unless Mrs. Hallam has placed her character in your hands
                        for dissection, ladies, I must ask you not to discuss it further."
                    That utterance came from Captain Will Hallam, who happened to be standing by the
                        wall, very near the woman who had last spoken. It was like a thunderbolt in its effect, for
                        there was not one of the gossips whose husband"s prosperity was not in some more or
                        less direct way in Will Hallam"s hands.
                    Instantly he turned and walked away to where Barbara shyly sat in a corner, while
                        half a dozen young men stood and talked with her. For whatever the matrons might think, the
                        young men all  seemed eager for Barbara s favor, and
                        were making of her the belle of the evening by their attentions.
                    To the astonishment of all of them, Hallam asked Barbara for her dancing card. Nobody
                        had ever heard of the great man of business dancing. He was middle-aged, absorbed in affairs,
                        and positively contemptuous of all frivolities. He had come to the party only to bring his wife.
                        He had quickly gone away again, and he had now returned only to escort Mrs. Hallam home.
                        Nevertheless, he asked Barbara for her card and, finding it full, he turned to Duncan, saying:
                    "I see that the next set is yours, Duncan. Won"t you give it up to
                        me, if Miss Barbara permits?"
                    Half a minute later the music began again and, to the astonishment of the whole
                        company, Captain Will Hallam led out the demure little Quakeress, and managed to walk through a
                        cotillion with her, without once treading on her toes.
                    That was Captain Will Hallam"s way of emphasizing his displeasure with the
                        gossips, and marking his appreciation of Barbara. It was so effective as to set the whole
                        feminine part of the community talking for a week to come. But of this the secluded girl heard
                        not a word. The only change the events of the evening made in the quiet routine of her life was
                        that all the best young men in the town became frequent callers upon her, and that thereafter
                        she was sure to receive more than one invitation to every conccert,  dance, or other entertainment, as soon as its occurrence was announced.
                    But enough of the gossip reached Guilford Duncan"s ears to induce angry
                        resentment and self-assertion on his part.
                    "I told you how it would be, Duncan," said Mrs. Will Hallam to him
                        not long afterwards. "But I"m glad you did it. It was the manly, as well as
                        the kindly thing to do."
                    "Thank you," the young man answered. "I mean to do more of
                        the same sort."
                    He did not explain. Mrs. Hallam was in need of no explanation.
                
                
                
                    XVI
                    A NEW ENEMY
                    
                    IT was about this time that Guilford Duncan managed to make a new enemy, and one more
                        powerful to work him harm, upon occasion; than all the rest whom he had offended.
                    Napoleon Tandy, president of the X National Bank,whose name had been first popularly
                        shortened to "Nap Tandy" and afterwards extended again into "Napper
                        Tandy,"was the only man m Cairo who had enough of financial strength or of creative
                        business capacity to be reckoned a rival of Captain Will Hallam, or his competitor in commercial
                        enterprises.
                    He had several times tried conclusions with Hallam in such affairs, but always with
                        results distinctly unsatisfactory to himself. Or, as Hallam one day explained to Duncan,
                        "He has got a good deal of education at my hands, and he has paid his tuition
                        fees."
                    Tandy was not yet past middle age, but he was always called " Old Napper
                        Tandy," chiefly because  of certain
                        objectionable traits of character that he possessed. He was reputed to be the "meanest
                        man in Southern Illinois." He was certainly the hardest in driving a bargain, the most
                        merciless in its enforcement. He was cordially hated and very greatly feared. Cold,
                        self-possessed, shrewd, and utterly selfish, his attitude toward his fellow men, and toward
                        himself, was altogether different from that of his greater competitor, Hallam. He felt none of
                        Hallam"s "sporting interest," as Duncan called it, in playing the
                        game of commerce and finance. He was quick to see opportunities, and somewhat bold in seizing
                        upon them, but no thought of popular or public benefit to accrue from his enterprises ever found
                        lodgment in his mind. He had put a large sum of money into the Through Line of freight cars, but
                        he had done so with an eye single to his own advantage, with no thought of anything but
                        dividends. He had contemptuously called Duncan "a rainbow chaser," because
                        that young man had spoken with of freight rates must bring to the people East and West.
                    "Well, he has a mighty good knack of catching his rainbows,
                        anyhow," answered Hallam; "and you"d better not let the idea get away
                        with you that he isn"t a force to be reckoned with. He"s young yet, and very
                        new to business, but you remember it was he who first suggested the Through Line, and worked it
                        out."
                    
                    In brief, Napper Tandy was a very greedy money-getter, and nothing else. Ho hated
                        Hallam with all that he had of heart, because Hallam was his superior in the conduct of affairs,
                        and because Hallam had so badly beaten him in every case of competitive effort, and perhaps
                        because of some other things.
                    On his part, Will Hallam, without hating, cordially detested the man whom he had thus
                        beaten and made afraid.
                    Nevertheless, these two never quarreled. Each of them was too worldly wise to make an
                        open, breach with one whose co-operation in great affairs he might at any time need.
                    "I never quarrel with a man," said Hallam to Duncan, by way of
                        explaining the situation. "I never quarrel with a man till he is in the poor-house. So
                        long as he"s at large I may need him any day. It doesn"t pay for a man to cut
                        off his own fingers."
                    So between these two there was always an outward semblance of peace, even when war
                        was on between them, and it frequently happened that they were closely associated in enterprises
                        too large for either to conduct so well alone.
                    On the night of the ball, Hallam took Duncan aside and said to him:
                    "I wish you"d take the seven o"clock tram tins morning and
                        go up to the mines for a few days. Everything there seems to be at sixes and sevens. I
                        can"t make head or tail out of it all. All I know is  that the confounded mine is losing a good many thousands of my dollars every
                        month. I want you to go up and make a thorough investigation. If you can"t find a way
                        out I"ll shut up the hole in the ground and quit."
                    Captain Hallam knew, of course, that Duncan could not get much sleep that night, but
                        he had long ago learned that Guilford Duncan utterly disregarded personal comfort whenever duty
                        called, and so lie had no hesitation in thus ordering his young lieutenant to take an early
                        morning train on the heels of a night of dancing.
                    "Perhaps you"d better go up there with me," suggested
                        Duncan.
                    "No, that would embarrass matters. I"ve been up several times, and
                        I want you to bring a fresh mind to bear upon the trouble. I"ll telegraph the people
                        there to put everything at your command. I want you to study the situation and make up your
                        mind, just as if the whole thing belonged to you. Part of it does, you know, and more of it
                        shall, if you find a way out. If the thing can be made to go, I"ll give you ten more of
                        the hundred shares, in addition to the five you already own. Good-night, and good-bye till
                        you"re ready to report."
                    Captain Will Hallam had recently bought this coal mine on a little branch railroad in
                        the interior of Illinois. He had not wanted to buy it, but had done so by way of saving a debt.
                        The mine had been  badly constructed at the
                        beginning, and latterly it had been a good deal neglected. There were other difficulties, as
                        Duncan soon discovered, and the coal resources of the property had never been half developed. In
                        recognition of his services in examining titles and other matters connected with the purchase,
                        Hallam had given the young man five per cent. of the company"s stock. He was thus, for
                        the first time, working in part for himself, when he was sent to study the situation.
                    Quietly, but insistently, in face of the surly opposition of the superintendent, who
                        was also styled chief engineer, Duncan looked into things. It was true, as the superintendent
                        sullenly said, that this young man knew nothing of coal mining; but it was also true, as Duncan
                        answered, that he knew how to learn.
                    And he did learn. He learned so much that after three or four days, he sent a
                        telegram to Captain Will Hallam, saying:
                    Give me a perfectly free hand here or call me home. I must have all the authority you
                        possess or I can be of no use. Answer by telegraph.
                    For response, Will Hallam telegraphed:
                    Consider yourself the whole thing. I give you complete and absolute authority. Hire
                        or discharge men at will. Order all improvements you think best. Draw on the bank here for any
                        sum you need. Only make the thing go if you can.
                    Telegraphing was much more expensive in those  daysforty years agothan it is now. And yet in neither of those dispatches was
                        there any seeming effort to spare words. That was Captain Will Hallam"s rule and
                        practice. His frequent instruction to all his subordinates ran somewhat in this wise:
                    "Never save a word in telegraphing at the risk of being misunderstood.
                        Mistakes are the most costly luxuries that a man can indulge in. Never forget that we live in
                        the Nineteenth Century."
                    In that spirit Captain Will sent a dozen other telegrams that day, addressed to all
                        the different men at the mines who had even the mallest pretension to authority. In each of them
                        he said:
                    Guilford Duncan represents me fully and absolutely. His authority is unlimited. Obey
                        him or quit. Obey him with all good will. Help him if you can, and in every way you can. There
                        must be no interference, no kicking, no withholding of information. These are orders.
                    Thus armed, Duncan set to work in earnest.
                    "Why isn"t your output of coal larger than it is?" he
                        asked of Davidson, the superintendent.
                    "I can"t make it larger under the circumstances."
                    "What are the circumstances? What difficulties are there in the way? You
                        have miners enough, surely."
                    "Well, for one thing, the mine is badly ventilated. Many of the best
                        galleries are filled with choke-damp, and must be kept closed."
                    "Why don"t you improve the ventilation? As  an engineer you ought to know how to do that much."
                    "It isn"t feasible, as you would know, Mr. Duncan, if you knew
                        anything about mining."
                    "Oh, never mind my ignorance. It is your knowledge that I"m
                        concerned about just now. Do I understand you to say that a mine lying only seventy-five feet or
                        so below the surface cannot be ventilated?"
                    "I suppose it might be if the business could afford the expense."
                    "The business can and will afford any expense that may be necessary to make
                        it pay. If you know enough of engineering to devise a practicable plan for ventilating the mine,
                        I"ll furnish you all the money you need to carry it out."
                    He had it in mind to add: "If you don"t know enough for that,
                        I"ll find a more competent engineer, but he kept his temper and refrained.
                    "Twouldn"t be of any use," answered Davidson, after a
                        moment. "We"re producing more coal now than we can market."
                    "How is that? I don"t understand. Your order bookwhich I looked
                        over to-dayshows orders a full month ahead of shipments, besides many canceled orders,
                        countermanded because not filled promptly enough to satisfy the customers. You"re
                        superintendent as well as engineer. I wish you"d try to clear up this puzzle."
                    
                    "Oh, it"s simple enough. The railroad people won"t furnish
                        us cars enough. I could ship a hundred carloads to-morrow if I had the cars, but I
                        haven"t got "em, and I can"t get "em."
                    "Do you mean that you are offering coal as freight to this railroad, and the
                        road is refusing it?"
                    "Yes, that"s about it. I"ve asked for cars and
                        can"t get "em, except a few each day."
                    "Do the other mines along this little branch railroad have the same
                        trouble?"
                    "There is only one other mine on this line."
                    "Well, does it encounter the same difficulty in marketing its
                        coal?"
                    "Noat least not to so great an extent. You see somebody there is standing in
                        with the railroad people. I suppose they"ve had a little block of stock given to
                        themthe railroad people, I mean. So the Quentin mines get all the cars they want, and we get
                        only their leavings."
                    "Well, now, Mr. Davidson, I give you this order: Set to work at once and
                        bring out every ton of coal you"ve got ready in the mine. There"ll be cars
                        here to haul it when you get it ready. Good-night, Mr. Davidson. I"ll talk with you
                        another time about the other matters. I have a good deal to do to-night, so I can"t
                        talk further with you now."
                    Davidson went out after a grudging "good-night." Duncan did not yet
                        know or suspect, though he was presently to find out, that to Davidson, also, the proprietors
                             of the rival mine were paying a little tribute,
                        as a reward for silence and for making trouble.
                    Duncan sat for an hour writing letters. The typewriting machine had not been invented
                        at that time, and even if it had been Duncan would have preferred to write these letters
                        himself.
                    One of them was addressed to the General Freight Agent of the little railroad on
                        which the mine was situated. It read as follows:
                    Within six days I shall have one hundred car loads of coal at the mouth of this mine,
                        ready for shipment upon orders. After that time I shall have about sixty car loads ready for
                        shipment each day. Please see to it that an adequate supply of cars to move this freight are
                        side-tracked here on time.
                    Duncan signed that letter with all needed circumspection. The signature read:
                    For the Redwood Coal and Iron Company; Guilford Duncan, Manager and Attorney at Law
                        and in Fact for the Company.
                    That subscription was intended as an intimation.
                    When on the next afternoon the General Freight Agent, who had several times met
                        Duncan at Captain Hallam"s house, read the letter, his attention was at once
                        attractedprecisely as Guilford Duncan had intended that it should be, by the elaborate formality
                        of the signature.
                    "So Hallam s got that smart young man of his at work, has he? "the
                        Freight Agent muttered. "Well, 
                        we"ll see what we can do with him" But he deliberately waited till nine
                        o"clock that night before responding. Then opening the telegraph key at his elbow, he
                        called Duncan, and Duncan, who had learned telegraphing, as he had learned many other things, as
                        a part of his equipment for work, promptly went to his key and answered the call. The General
                        Freight Agent spelled out this message:
                    "Simply impossible to furnish cars you ask. Haven"t got
                        them."
                    Duncan responded:
                    "The Quentin mine gets all cars needed. We demand our share and I shall
                        insist upon the demand."
                    The reply came:
                    "I tell you we can"t do it. I"ll run down to your place
                        to-morrow or next day and explain."
                    "Don"t want explanations," answered Duncan. "I
                        want the cars."
                    "But we simply can"t furnish them."
                    "But you simply must."
                    "What if I refuse?"
                    "Then I"ll adopt other measures. But you won"t
                        refuse."
                    "Why not?"
                    "Because I know too much," answered Duncan." I shall send
                        to you by special messenger, on the train that will pass here within an hour, a letter making a
                        formal tender of the freight. I make that tender by telegraph now, and you may as well accept it
                        in that  way. Your road is a chartered common
                        carrier. Your lawyers will advise you that you cannot refuse freight formally tendered to your
                        for carriage, unless you can show an actual inability; in that case you must show that you are
                        doing your best by all shippers alike; that you are treating them with an equal hand. You
                        perfectly well know you are not doing that. You know you have cars in plenty. You know you are
                        deliberately discriminating against this mine, and in favor of its rival. I make formal demand,
                        on behalf of the company I represent, for all cars needed for the shipment of this freight. If
                        they are not forthcoming, as you say they will not be, I give notice that I will dump the coal
                        by the side of your loading side-track and leave it there at your risk. Good-night."
                        And Duncan shut off the telegraph instrument and devoted himself to the preparation of his
                        letter of demand.
                    It should be explained that the young man was not "making a
                        bluff"in the figurative phrase of that time and countrywhen he telegraphed in this way
                        to the General Freight Agent. He had his facts well in hand. As soon as Davidson"s
                        intimation had come to him to the effect that the railroad officials were "standing
                        in" with the proprietors of the Quentin mine, he had telegraphed for Joe Arnold to come
                        to him by a train that would arrive at midnight. Joe Arnold was a detective of rare gifts and,
                        incidentally, a reporter on a Chicago newspaper. Captain Will  Hallam often had occasion to employ Joe, and thus Duncan had come into
                        acquaintance with the young man"s peculiar abilities for finding out things. Joe Arnold
                        had an innocent, incurious, almost stupid countenance that suggested a chronic desire for sleep
                        rather than any more alert characteristic. He had a dull, uninterested way of asking questions
                        which suggested the impulse of a vacuous mind to "keep the tails going,"
                        rather than any desire to secure the information asked for. Indeed, when he asked a question and
                        it was not promptly answered, he always hastened to say:
                    "Oh, it"s of no consequence, and it"s none of my
                        business."
                    But before he quitted the presence of the man to whom the question had been put, Joe
                        Arnold usually had his answer.
                    To this man, when he came by the midnight train, Duncan said:
                    "I must know who are the stockholders in the Quentin mineboth those of
                        record and those whose names do not appear on the stock books. If possible I must know also what
                        each stockholder actually paid for his shares. You must hurry. I must have this information by
                        noon to-morrow. You"ll need to use money perhaps. Here"s stake for expenses.
                        Come back on the noon train to-morrow."
                    And Joe Arnold came back, bringing with him quite all the information that Guilford
                        Duncan wanted, and  considerably more. For he brought
                        with him transcripts of all the correspondence that had passed between the railroad people and
                        the mine proprietors, including a dispatch which the General Freight Agent had sent a little
                        after midnight that morning to Napoleon Tandy, saying:
                    Hallam has got that sharp young fellow Duncan at work and, as you are aware, he knows
                        his business and his rights. I"m afraid he"ll make a formal proffer of freight
                        and a demand for cars. I wish you could come here, but of course you can"t so long as
                        you wish your stockholdings in that mine down there and your relations with us to be kept
                        secret. Please telegraph any instructions you may wish.
                    That dispatch, of course, had been sent not from the mines, but from the General
                        Freight Agent"s office in another town. But there were always men in those days who
                        were deeply interested to learn what was going on among the masters of finance, and one of these
                        over-curious ones was a certain telegraph operator. It was his practice to take off the wires
                        whatever dispatches there might be passing between Napper Tandy and the railroad people.
                    Thus it came about that Joe Arnold brought to Guilford Duncan a mass of accurate and
                        detailed information which enabled him to take the high hand in his telegraphic controversy with
                        the General Freight Agent, when that person, late in the evening, called him up on the wire in
                        answer to his letter, received the night before. Thus was Duncan armed, 
                        cap-a-pie, for the telegraphic controversy. And thus it came
                        about that during the next six days there were a hundred cars shunted to Redwood side-tracks,
                        where they were rapidly loaded with the coal output of the Redwood mine.
                
                
                
                    XVII
                    AN OLD FRIEND
                    
                    FROM that hour forth the Redwood mine became a paying property and, as Guilford
                        Duncan liked to think, one which was contributing its share to the public benefit and the
                        welfare of the people.
                    But Duncan"s work there had only begun. Having solved the problem of
                        shipping coal as fast as the miners could dig it, he gave his attention next to the equally
                        pressing problem of increasing output. In the solution of that a great help unexpectedly came to
                        him.
                    He was sitting late one night over the books and correspondence, when, near midnight,
                        a miner sought speech with him.
                    He bade the man enter and, without looking up from the papers he was studying, asked
                        him to take a seat. Still without taking his eyes from the papers, he presently asked of the
                        man, who had not accepted the invitation to sit:
                    "Well, sir, what can I do for you?"
                    
                    "Nothing," answered the man. "I came to serve you, not to
                        ask service."
                    The voice seemed familiar to Duncanalmost startlingly familiar. He instantly looked
                        up and exclaimed:
                    "Why, it"s Dick Temple!"
                    "Yes," answered the other. "You and I quarreled very
                        bitterly once. The quarrel was a very foolish oneon my side."
                    "And on mine, too!" responded Duncan, grasping his former
                        enemy"s hand. "Let us forget it, and be friends."
                    "With all my heart. It was in that spirit that I came hither to-nightI want
                        to render you a service."
                    Meanwhile Duncan had almost forced the miner into a chair.
                    "Tell me," he said, "how is it that you"
                    "That I"m a miner? You think of mo as an educated engineer, eh?
                        Well, that"s a long story and not at all so sad a one as you might suppose.
                        I"ll tell you all about it at another time. But it can wait, while there are some other
                        things that should be said nowthings that vitally affect the affairs you have in
                        charge."
                    "It is very good of you to come to me with suggestions, and they will be
                        very welcome, I assure you, and very helpful, I"ve no doubt. For I have faith in your
                        skill as an engineer."
                    
                    "My skill still remains to be proved," answered the other with the
                        merest touch of sadness in his utterance. "But, at any rate, I"ve had the very
                        best engineering education that the schools can give. Never mind thatand never mind me. I
                        didn"t come here to talk of myself. I want to talk to you about this mine."
                    "Good. That is what I am here for. Go on."
                    "Well, everything here is wrong. With your readiness of perception you must
                        have seen that for yourself. With the general management I have nothing to do. I"m only
                        one of the miners. But there is a problem of ventilation here that ought to be solved, and I
                        have come simply to offer a solution, in the interest of the company that pays my wages and
                        still more in the interest of the miners. Two of them were killed by choke-damp a little while
                        ago, four of them are now ill from the same cause, while all of them are earning less than they
                        should because the best and most easily accessible headings are closed."
                    "Is there any very serious difficulty involved in the problem of ventilating
                        the mine?"
                    "None whateverat least no engineering difficulty."
                    "Just what do you mean?"
                    "I prefer not to say."
                    "Perhaps I can guess," said Duncan. "I have myself
                        discovered a very serious difficulty in the personal 
                        equation of Mr. Davidson. He does not want to ventilate the minehe has his own reasons, of
                        course. That difficulty shall no longer stand in the way. I shall eliminate it at once. Go on,
                        please, and tell me of the engineering problem."
                    "It scarcely amounts to a problem. The mine lies only about seventy-five
                        feet below the surface. At its extreme extension the depth is considerably less, because of a
                        surface depression there. What I suggest is this: Dig a shaft at the extreme end, thus making a
                        second opening, and pass air freely through the mine from the one opening to the other. The cost
                        will be a mere trifle."
                    "But will the air pass through in that way?"
                    "Not without help. But we can easily give it help."
                    "How? Go on. Explain your plan fully."
                    "Well, we have here three or four of those big fans that the government had
                        made for the purpose of ventilating the engine rooms and stoke holes of its ironclads. They
                        utterly failed and were sold as junk. Captain Hallam bought a lot of them at the price of scrap
                        iron, and sent them out here. Davidson tried one of them and reported utter failure as a result.
                        The failure was natural enough, both in the case of the ironclads and in that of the mine.
                    "How so?"
                    "Why, in both cases an attempt was made to force air down into spaces
                        already filled with an atmosphere  denser than that
                        above. That was absurdly impossible, as any engineer not an idiot should have known."
                    "And yet you think you can use these fans successfully in ventilating the
                        mine?"
                    "I do not thinkI know. If Mr. Davidson will permit me to explain"
                    "Never mind Davidson. If this experiment is to be tried you shall yourself
                        be the man to try it. Go on, please."
                    "But, Duncan, I simply mustn"t be known in the matter at
                        all."
                    "Why not?"
                    "I have a wife to care for. I can"t afford to be discharged.
                        Besides, the miners like me and they think they have grievances against Davidson. If he were to
                        discharge meas he certainly would if I were to appear in this matterthe whole force would go on
                        strike, no matter how earnestly I might plead with them not to do so. I don"t want that
                        to happen. It would be an ill return to the company that gave me wages when it was a question of
                        wages or starvation with me. Worse still, it would mean poverty and suffering to all the miners
                        and all their helpless wives and children. No, Duncan, I must not be known in this matter, or
                        have anything to do with the execution of the plans I suggest. I want you to treat them as your
                        own; suggest them to Davidson, and persuade him to carry them out. In that way all of good and
                        nothing of harm will be done."
                    
                    "Why, then, haven"t you suggested your plans to Davidson?"
                    "I have, and he has scornfully rejected them. Coming from you he may treat
                        them with a greater respect."
                    "Now, before we go any further, Dickfor I like to call you by the old
                        nickname that alone I knew before our foolish quarrel came to separate usbefore we go any
                        further, let me explain to you that I am absolute master here. My word is law, to Mr. Davidson
                        as completely and as absolutely as to the old fellow who scrubs out this officeor
                        doesn"t scrub it, for it"s inexcusably dirty. Davidson can no more discharge
                        you than he can discharge me. I don"t know yet what I shall do with Davidson. But at
                        any rate he has no longer the power to discharge you, so you need have no fear in that
                        direction. Go on, now, and tell me how you purpose to ventilate the mine. I"m mightily
                        interested.
                    "Thank you," said Temple. "My plan is perfectly simple.
                        You can"t force air down into a mine with any pump that was ever invented, or any pump
                        that ever will be devised by human ingenuity. But you can easily and certainly draw air out of a
                        mine. And when there are two openings to the mineone at either endif you draw air out at one end
                        fresh air will of itself rush in at the other end to take its place. My plan is to sink a shaft
                        at the farther end of the mine, and to build an air-tight box at the surface  opening, completely closing it, except for an
                        out-flow pipe. Then I shall put one of the big ironclad fans into that box upside down. When it is set spining it will suck air out of the mine and
                        fresh air will rush in at the main shaft to take the place of the air removed."
                    Duncan was intensely interested. Very eagerly he bent forward as he asked:
                    "You are confident of success in this?"
                    "More than confident. I"m sure."
                    "Quite sure?"
                    "More than quite sure; I"m absolutely certain. I"ve tried
                        it."
                    "Tried it? How?"
                    "I"ve reconstructed the mine in miniature. I"ve made a
                        little fan whose suction capacity is in exact proportion to that of the big fan which I propose
                        to use in the mine. I have fully experimented, and I tell you now, Guilford Duncan, that if you
                        permit me to carry out the plan, I"ll create a breeze in that mine which will compel
                        you to hold on to your hat whenever you go into the galleries."
                    Duncan rarely showed excitement. When he did so, it was in ways peculiar to himself.
                        At this point he rose to his feet, and with an unusually slow and careful enunciation, said:
                    "Go to work at this job early to-morrow morning, Dickor this morning,
                        rather, for it is now one o"clock. Your wife is Mary, of course?"
                    
                    There was a choking sound in Duncan"s voice as he uttered the words.
                    "Yes, of course," answered the other, instinctively grasping
                        Duncan"s hand and pressing it in warm sympathy.
                    "Will you bear her a message from me?"
                    "Yes, any message you HYG moved to send."
                    "Tell her that Guilford Duncan has appointed you sole engineer of these
                        mines, with full salary, and that if you succeed in the task you have undertaken, a far better
                        salary awaits you."
                    Temple hesitated a moment and at last resumed his scat before answering. Then he
                        said:
                    "This is very generous of you. I will go to her now, and deliver your
                        message. She will be very glad. She was in doubt as to how you would receive me. But may I come
                        back? Late as it is, I have a good deal more to say to youabout the mine, of course. You and I
                        used often to talk all night, in the old days, long ago, beforewell before we
                        quarreled."
                    "Go!" answered Duncan with emotion. "GO! Tell Mary what I
                        have said. Then come back. One night"s sleep, more or less, doesn"t matter
                        much to healthy men like you and me."
                
                
                
                    XVIII
                    DICK TEMPLE"s PLANS
                    
                    WHEN Richard Temple returned to the office of the mining company, his always cheerful
                        face was rippling with a certain look of gladness that told its own story of love and devotion.
                        Had he not borne good tidings to Mary? Had he not, for the first time in months, been able to
                        stand before her in another character than that of a working miner, and to offer her some better
                        promise of the future than she had known before?
                    Not that Mary ever thought of her position as one unworthy of her womanhood, not that
                        she had ever in her innermost heart allowed herself to lament the poverty she shared with him,
                        or to reproach him with the obscurity into which her life with him had brought her. Richard
                        Temple knew perfectly that no shadow of disloyalty had ever fallen upon Mary Temple"s
                        soul. He knew her for a wife of perfect type who, having married him "for better or for
                        worse," had only rejoicing in her loving heart that she had been able to accept the
                        "worse" when it came, to make the 
                        "better" of it, and to help him with her devotion at a time when he had most
                        sorely needed help.
                    He knew that his Mary was not only content, but happy in the miner"s hut
                        which had been her only home since her marriage, and which with loving hands, she had glorified
                        into something better to the soul than any palace is where love is not.
                    O, good women! All of you! How shall men celebrate enough your devotion, your
                        helpfulness, your loyalty, and your love? How shall men ever repay the debt they owe to wifehood
                        and motherhood? How shall civilization itself sufficiently honor the womanhood that alone has
                        made it possible?
                    But while Richard Temple knew that there was never a murmur at her lot in
                        Mary's heart any more than there was complaining upon her lips, he knew also how
                        earnestly she longed for a better place in the world for him, how intensely ambitious she was
                        that he should find fit opportunity and make the most of it in the way of winning that
                        recognition at the hands of men which her loving soul knew to be his right and his due.
                    It was with gladness, therefore, that he had gone to her after midnight with his
                        news. It was with joy that he had wakened her out of her sleep and told her of the good that had
                        come to him.
                    She wept as she sat there on the side of her bed and listened while the moonlight,
                        sifting through the vines that she had trained up over the window of the  miner's hut, cast a soft fleecy veil over her person, in
                        which Temple thought an angel might rejoice. But her tears were not born of sorrow. They were
                        tears of exceeding joy, arid. If a drop or two slipped in sympathy from the strong
                        man"s eyes and trickled down his cheeks, he had no cause to be ashamed.
                    When he re-entered the company"s office, Temple stood for a moment, unable
                        to control the emotion he had brought away from Mary"s bedside. When at last he
                        regained mastery of himself, he took Duncan"s hand and, pressing it warmly, delivered
                        Mary"s message:
                    "Mary bids me say, God bless you, Guilford Duncan. She bids me say that two
                        weeks ago to-night a son was born to us; that he has been nameless hitherto; but that to-night,
                        before I left, she took him from his cradle and named him Guilford Duncan Temple."
                    It is very hard for two American men to meet an emotional situation with propriety.
                        They cannot embrace each other as women, and Frenchmen, and Germans do, and weep; a handclasp is
                        all of demonstration that they permit themselves. For the rest, they are under bond to propriety
                        to maintain as commonplace and as unruffled a front as stoicism can command. So, after Guilford
                        Duncan had choked out the words: "Thank you, old fellow, and thank Mary," he
                        turned to the table, pushed forward the pipes and tobacco, and said:
                    
                    "Let"s have a smoke."
                    "Now tell me the rest of it," said Duncan, after the pipes were set
                        going. " About the mine, I mean."
                    "Well, it all seems simple. There are two hundred and seventy blind mules in
                        the mine"
                    "Blind? What do you mean?"
                    "Blind; yes. Not one of them has seen the light of day since he entered the
                        mine, and some of them nave been there for more than a dozen years. Living always in the dark,
                        they have lost the power to see."
                    "Go on. What were you going to say?"
                    "Why, that those mules represent an investment of twenty or twenty-five
                        thousand dollars, all absolutely needless. Their use involves also a wholly unnecessary expense
                        for stablemen, feed, and general care, while the yearly deaths among them add heavily to the
                        profit and loss account, on the loss side. Not one of those mules is needed in the mine. The
                        work they do can be better done at one-tenth the costyes, it can be done at no cost at all;
                        while if the mules are brought out and sold, they will bring from twenty to twenty-five thousand
                        dollars."
                    "Go on. Explain. "What do the mules do; and how is their work to be
                        done without them?"
                    "They do just two things; they haul coal to the bottom of the inclined
                        shaft, where it must be reloaded at wholly unnecessary expensein order to be hauled by machinery
                        up the incline to the surface. Half the  time they
                        are employed in hauling water. The mine, you must understand, declines from the foot of the
                        shaft to the end of the main heading. The very lowest level of all is there, where I propose to
                        put in a ventilating shaft, with a fan; all the water flows to that point, flooding it. Under
                        the antediluvian methods in use in this mine, all this water must be pumped into leaky cars and
                        hauled by mules to the bottom of the the sloping shaft, whence it is drawn up by the engine,
                        spilling half of it before it reaches the surface. Now, when I sink that ventilating shaft out
                        there on the prairie, I must have an engine to turn the fan. Very well, I"ve got it.
                        Among the junk that Captain Hallam bought when the war ended and the river navy went out of
                        commission, there are parts of many little steam engines. I"ve busied myself at night
                        in measuring these and fitting part of one to parts of another. The result is that I have made
                        an engine out of this rubbish, which will not only drive the ventilating fan, but will also pump
                        all the water out of the mine."
                    "But will not the mules be needed for hauling coal to the bottom of the
                        shaft?"
                    "Not at all, if you are willing to spend a little money in an improvementsay
                        a fourth or a third of what the mules will bring in the marketor considerably less than it costs
                        to feed and curry them for a year."
                    "What is the nature of the improvement?"
                    
                    "Why, simply an extension to every part of the mine of the cable system by
                        which the engine now hauls the coal and water up the slope."
                    "But where are we to get power?"
                    "By using what we already have. Our great engine is a double one. We are
                        using only one of its cylinders. We have only to connect the other in order to have all the
                        power we need."
                    "But what about steam?"
                    "That"s easy to make. We have several unused boilers, and as we
                        burn nothing under our boilers but culmthe finely slaked coal for which there isn"t a
                        market, even at a tenth of a cent a tonit will cost us absolutely not one cent to make all the
                        steam we need."
                    "You seem to have thought it all out."
                    "I have done more than that. I have worked it
                        all out. I must work all day in a. heading, of course, in order to make bread and butter. I have
                        worked at night over these problems."
                    "And you are sure you"ve got the right answers?"
                    "Greatly more than sureabsolutely certain!"
                    "Very well. You are now chief engineer, or anything else you please, at a
                        chief engineer"s salary. You are to go to work at once digging the new ventilating and
                        pumping shaft. You are to proceed at once to install your other improvements, and, when you
                        report to me that there is no longer any use for the mules in the mine, I"ll bring them
                        all out and  sell them. I"ll look to the
                        payments incidental to your work. My mission here is to make this mine a paying property. To
                        that end, you are to bear in mind, I have an entirely free hand, and all the money needed is at
                        my command. Now let that finish business for to-night. I want you to spend the rest of the dark
                        hours in telling me your story and Mary"s. I want to know all that has happened to both
                        of you sincewell, since she told me she loved you and notme. You don"t mind sitting up
                        for the rest of the night?"
                    "Certainly not. I"ve sat up with you on far smaller
                        provocation."
                    "But how about Mary?"
                    "She will sleep, or, if she doesn"tand I suppose she
                        won"tshe is entirely happy. She will be glad to have me spend the night with
                        you."
                    "Very well, then. Tell me the story of what has happened to you and Mary
                        since the day when we quarreled like a pair of idiots, andlike men of sensedecided not to fight.
                        I want to hear it all."
                    "I"ll tell it all," said the other. And he did.
                
                
                
                    XIX
                    DICK TEMPLE's STORY
                    
                    THIS is the story that Richard Temple told to his friend in the small hours of that
                        night"s morning. Let us dispense with quotation marks to cover it.
                    You know what my education was. My uncle, whose heir I was supposed to be, spared no
                        expense to equip me for my life"s work. He sent me to the best schools in the North,
                        and afterwards to the best schools in Europe. Just at the beginning of the war, and because of
                        it, I returned to Virginia. I secured a commission in the engineer corps, but I soon resigned
                        it, because at the beginning of the war there was no earnest work for the engineer corps to do,
                        and I foolishly thought there never would be. I enlisted as a private in the artillery, and
                        before the end of the war I was a captain.
                    A few months before the war ended, I married Mary. You, of course, understand. Mary
                        was the daughter of an ancient and honorable house, but she was living as a dependent in the
                        family of a very  remote relativeso remote that the
                        kinship was rather mythical than real.
                    At that time I owned, or was supposed to own, my ancestral plantation, Robinet. My
                        uncle at his death had left it to me.
                    As a man abundantly able to provide for a, wife, I asked Mary to marry me, and to
                        become the mistress of Robinet.
                    We were married about the time Fort Harrison fell into the enemy"s hands. I
                        remember that I had to delay the wedding in order to bombard Fort Harrison with my mortars, in
                        preparation for the infantry assault, which it was hoped might recover the works.
                    When that affair was over, and our lines were reconstructed, I got leave of absence,
                        and Mary and I were married.
                    I was foolish, enough to believe, even in the autumn and winter of 1864, that we of
                        the South were certain to win the war. As I look back now and consider the conditions then
                        existing, I wonder at my own stupidity in not seeing what the end must be. However, that would
                        have made no difference in any case. I must take Mary out of her condition of dependence, by
                        marrying her, and I did so.
                    When the end came, I went home for a little while. My uncle had died in hopeless
                        despondency. His estate, when I inherited it, was buried in debt, and with the negroes no longer
                        mine, the creditors clearly saw that I could never pay out. They descended  upon me in a swarm. There was nothing for me to do but make complete
                        surrender of my possessions to them. These were sufficient to pay about forty cents on the
                        dollar of the hereditary debt.
                    As soon as disaster thus came upon me, I set out to find employment in my profession,
                        promising my-self that I should soon be able to pay all the debts of which I had been acquitted
                        as a bankrupt.
                    I knew that I had as much of skill in my profession as a young man with little
                        practical experience could have. I saw that there must be a world of work done by way of
                        developing the resources of the country after four years of paralyzing war. I thought there was
                        pressing need of my services and my skill, and I confidently counted upon quickly achieving
                        place and pay for myself.
                    I didn"t know the ways of men then, but I soon found them out. Wherever
                        there seemed to be an opening for me, I found that Somebody"s son got the place,
                        because Somebody could influence its bestowal.
                    Once I did get employment. There was a little stretch of railroad to be built, by way
                        of connecting one line with others. I applied for the place of engineer, and was promptly
                        informed that John Harbin had already been appointed to it. You know John. You know what a
                        blockhead he is. I was graduated in the same class with himhe simply cheating his way through.
                        When I heard of his appointment, I was dumbfounded. I knew that he  simply could not do the work. He could not calculate a curvature to save his
                        life. As for the more difficult operations of engineering, he was as helpless as a child.
                    I was curious to learn how he intended to get through with his task. I soon found
                        out. He sent for me and asked me to become his "assistant." The pay he offered
                        was barely sufficient to keep me alive. In brief, the arrangement was that I should do the work
                        while he drew the pay and got the credit. That was because John Harbin"s father was
                        president of the railroad that was making the extension, and John Harbin"s father had
                        no purpose to let any good thing go out of the family.
                    I was rapidly getting my education in the ways of the world, and I was paying a high
                        price for it. For a few months I did the work of a competent engineer on a salary that paid me
                        less than a laborer"s wage. Finally I resigned in disgust and set out to find something
                        better. I tramped across country to every mine I could hear offor in my studies I had
                        specialized in miningbut nowhere could I secure employment. There was always some man with
                        influence, where I had none, and always the man with the influence got the place.
                    At last I tramped my way out here. I had made up my mind to ask no longer for
                        employment as an engineer. I applied to Davidson for a miner"s place only. At first he
                        refused, after looking at my hands  and satisfying
                        himself that I had had no experience in practical mining. But, as they pay miners here only by
                        outputa certain price per ton for the coal a miner gets outI persuaded him at last to let me go
                        into a heading with a pick and a shovel, and a package of blasting powder.
                    Then I wrote to Mary, telling her of my situation, and charging her that she must
                        from that day forth pay the cost of her living out of such money as I could send her. In order
                        that I might send her enoughfor I was determined that she should not be in any remotest way a
                        dependentI instantly cut off all my personal expenses. I had my soldier blanket, and my
                        overalls. I needed no other clothes, for in the mine I always go barefoot. I was well used to
                        sleeping out of doors, so I slept on the ground under the coal chutes. I took the job of cooking
                        for a gang of bachelor miners, who gave me my board for my services.
                    In that way I planned to send all of my wages to Mary. But I didn"t really
                        know Mary. I thought of her always as a tenderly nurtured girl, who must be shielded at all
                        hazards against hardship of every kind; and I meant so to shield her. But presently she revealed
                        herself in another character. You know how it was in the army. The gentlemen soldiers, the men
                        of good breeding, the men who had lived in luxury from childhood, with servants to anticipate
                        every need, real or fancied, were the readiest to meet  hardship, and to do hard work. You and I have seen such men drudging, willingly and
                        cheerfully, in the half-frozen mud of the trenches, while other men, who had never known
                        anything better than a log cabin for a home, bacon and greens for dinner, and a bed of straw to
                        sleep upon, were almost in mutiny because of the hardships they must endure as soldiers.
                    It is true that "Blood will tell," and it is as true with women as
                        with men. Blood asserted itself in Mary"s case. Her answer was prompt to my letter
                        telling her I had taken work as a miner. She utterly repudiated the thought that she was to go
                        on living in idleness, while I should go on toiling to furnish her the means of living so. I
                        shall never forget her words:
                    "I am coming to you quickly, Richard, to convert your miner"s cabin
                        into a home. Where the husband is, the wife should be with all she knows of helpfulness and
                        cheer."
                    And she came. From that hour to this I have known what the word
                        "home" means, far better than I ever did in my life before. We have two
                        roomsshe built one of them, a little lean-to, with her own hands. And her presence glorifies
                        both of them.
                    "I am very glad, Dick."
                    That was all that Duncan could say. It was all there was need for him to say.
                
                
                
                    XX
                    IN
                        THE SUMMER TIME
                    
                    SIX months cams and went before Duncan"s work at the mine was done. Then, in
                        mid-July, he returned to Cairo and gave an account of his stewardship. With Temple in control as
                        superintendent and engineer, the mine had become a richly paying property, and with Temple
                        there, there was no further need for Duncan"s presence.
                    During that half year, Duncan had lived chiefly with the Temples in the
                        superintendent"s house, which Mary Temple had quickly converted from a barn-like
                        structure, standing alone upon the face of the bald prairie, into a home in the midst of a
                        garden of flowers.
                    During his long stay at the mine, Duncan had made frequent visits to Cairo. These
                        were brief in duration, usually covering a Sunday, but each visit gave Guilford Duncan two
                        opportunities that he desired. He could sit late on Saturday evening, discussing his plans with
                        Captain Will Hallam, and on Sunday he had opportunity to become more and more closely acquainted
                        with Barbara.
                    
                    He made no formal calls upon her, and none were necessary. He simply adopted the plan
                        of remaining after the one o"clock Sunday dinner and, little by little, Barbara came to
                        feel that he expected her to join him in the little parlor, after his cigar was finished. He
                        seemed to like the quiet conversations with her, while she regarded the opportunity to talk with
                        a man so superior in education, culture, and intellect, to any other that she had known, as a
                        privilege to be prized.
                    Their attitude toward each other at this time was peculiar. They were good friends,
                        fond of each other"s society, and seemingly, at least, they were nothing more. The
                        fascination that Duncan had from the first felt in Barbara"s presence was still upon
                        him, but he accepted it more calmly now, and it soothed his natural restlessness, where at first
                        it had excited it.
                    To Barbara, Guilford Duncan's attitude seemed a gracious condescension,
                        which she did not dream that she deserved. She sometimes wondered that this young man of rare
                        quality, who was sure of a welcome wherever he might go, should be content to sit with her
                        throughout the Sunday afternoons, instead of seeking company better fit to entertain him. There
                        were young women in Cairo who had been much more conventionally educated than sheyoung women who
                        had mingled in society in Chicago, and in eastern cities. A few of them had even traveled in
                        Europe  a thing very rare among Americans, and
                        especially among Western Americans in the sixties. These young women knew all about operas and
                        theaters. They had heard great musicians play and great singers sing. They had seen all the
                        notable actors. They read the current literature of the timethe lighter part of it at leastand
                        above all, they were mistresses of the "patter," which passes for brilliancy
                        and sometimes even for wit in fashionable life.
                    Guilford Duncan visited none of these, and Barbara could not understand.
                    "He is too tired, I suppose," was her reflection, " when
                        he runs down to Cairo for a Sunday rest. He doesn"t want to see anybody or talk to
                        anybody. I can easily understand that. So he just sits here instead of going out."
                    Barbara"s explanation was obviously defective at one point. If Duncan did
                        not care to see people, if he was too weary for conversation, how came it about that he stayed
                        and talked gently, but constantly, with her, instead of going to the rooms he had fitted up for
                        himself since prosperity had come to him? She had heard much, of those rooms, of the multitude
                        of books that he had put into them, of the bric-a-brac with which he had rendered them homelike
                        and beautiful. They were in fact very simple rooms, inexpensively furnished. But Duncan had
                        devoted a good deal of attention and an unfailing good taste to their furnishing and adornment,
                        and thus, by the expenditure  of a very little money
                        he had managed to create a bachelor apartment which was the talk of the town.
                    "He is alone when lie goes there," the girl explained to herself,
                        when at last this question arose in her mind. "And I suppose he feels lonely. But why
                        doesn"t he go somewhere, instead of just sitting here in our little parlor or out in
                        the porch?"
                    It was a riddle that she could not read, and for the present, at least, Duncan would
                        not offer her any help in solving it. He knew now that Barbara Verne was the woman he lovedthe
                        only woman in all the world who could be to him what a wife must be to a man of his temperament,
                        if two souls are to be satisfied.
                    But he saw clearly that Barbara Verne had no thought of that kind in her mindor, at
                        least, no such conscious thought. She was accustomed to think of herself as a very commonplace
                        young woman, not at all the equal of this very superior man, to whom everybody in Cairo paid a
                        marked deference. He understood Barbara as she did not at all understand herself. He had looked
                        upon her white soul and bowed his head in worship of its purity, its nobility, its utter
                        truthfulness. He knew the qualities of a mind that had no just self-appreciation. He felt,
                        rather than knew, that no thought of his loving herotherwise than as an elder brother might love
                        a little sisterhad ever crossed her consciousness. He felt  that the abrupt suggestion of that thought would only shock and distress her.
                    "I"ll find a way of making others suggest it, after a
                        while," he resolved. "In the meanwhile" He didn"t finish the
                        sentence, even in his own mind. But what he did in that "meanwhile" was to see
                        as much as possible of Barbara, to talk with her impersonally, gently, and interestingly, to win
                        her perfect trust and confidence, and, so far as possible, to make his presence a necessary
                        thing to her. He paid her no public attention of any kind. But he paid no public or private
                        attention to any other young woman. It was well understood that for a time he was living at the
                        mine and coming to Cairo only for brief visits of a business character, at infrequent intervals.
                        His neglect of society, therefore, seemed in need of no explanation, while his unostentatious
                        intimacy with Barbara attracted no attention. The only person who ever spoke to him about it was
                        Mrs. Will Hallam.
                    "You are going to marry Barbara Verne, of course?" she half said,
                        half asked one day.
                    "If I can, yes," he answered.
                    "I"m very glad of that," and she said no more.
                    On his final return to Cairo, however, Duncan found himself expected in what is
                        called society. Society was destined to disappointment, for Duncan went nowhereexcept that he
                        usually sat for some hours every Sunday afternoon in the vine-clad porch of the house in which
                        he took his meals. Barbara"s  aunt often sat
                        there with him. Barbara always did so, in answer to what seemed to be his wish. He made no
                        calls. He declined all invitations to the little excursions on the river, which constituted the
                        chief social activities of the summer time. E gave it out that he was too busily engaged with
                        affairs to have time for anything else, and that explanation seemed for a time to satisfy public
                        curiosity.
                    And that explanation was true. Guilford Duncan had begun to take upon himself the
                        duties of a leaderin an important wayin the work of up-building which at that time was engaging
                        the attention of all men of affairs. He had accumulated some money, partly by saving, but more
                        by the profits of his little investments, and by being "let in on the ground
                        floor" of many large enterprises, in the conception and conduct of which his abilities
                        were properly appreciated by the capitalists who undertook them.
                    Except as a legal adviser, he was no longer a man employed by other men now. His
                        relations with Will Hallam were closer than ever, but they were no longer those of secretary, or
                        clerk, or employee in any other capacity. In many enterprises he was Hallam"s partner.
                        In all, he was his legal adviser, besides being employed in a like capacity by one or two
                        railroad companies and the like. He had offices of his own, and while he was still not at all
                        rich, or a man who was reckoned a capitalist, he was everywhere  recognized as a young man of power and influence, whose brains had brought
                        him into close association with the greater men of affairs, not only in Cairo, but in all parts
                        of the country, and especially in New York. For that great city had by this time made itself
                        completely the financial capital of the country, and its controlling hand was felt m every
                        enterprise of large moment throughout the land.
                
                
                
                    XXI
                    AN INTERVIEW
                        WITH NAPPER TANDY
                    
                    FOR more than a year now Guilford Duncan had been diligently studying those processes
                        of upbuilding which were so rapidly converting the West into an empire of extraordinary wealth
                        and power. He had made many suggestions that had commended themselves for immediate execution,
                        together with some that must wait for years to come. He had condemned some projects that seemed
                        hopeful to others, and he had induced modifications in many.
                    All these things had been done mainly in his letters and reports to Captain Will
                        Hallam, but the substance of those letters and reports had been promptly laid before others,
                        especially before those great financiers of the East, upon whom all enterprises of moment
                        throughout the country depended for the means of their accomplishment. In that way Guilford
                        Duncan had become known to the "master builders" as he called these men, and
                        had won a goodly share of their confidence. He was regarded as a young man of unusual gifts in
                        the way of constructive enterprise a trifle overbold, some thought, overconfident, even
                        visionary, but, in the main, sound in his calculations,  as results had shown when his plans were adopted. On the other hand, some
                        projectors, whose enterprises he had discouraged as unsound or premature, complained that so far
                        from being a visionary, he was in fact a pessimist, a discouraging force that stood in the way
                        of that "development of the country" from which they hoped for personal gain
                        of one kind or another. There were little towns that aspired to become larger towns, and
                        stretches of undeveloped country in which Guilford Duncan was regarded as an arch enemy of
                        progressalmost as a public enemy. The reason for this was the fact that he had advised against
                        the construction of railroads, from which the little towns concerned, and the stretches of
                        thinly peopled country between, had hoped to benefit, and his advice had been accepted as sound
                        by the financiers to whom the projectors looked for the means of securing what they wanted.
                    Napper Tandy was Guilford Duncan"s enemy from the hour in which Duncan had
                        forced that little branch railroad in the coal regions to haul Hallam"s coal on equal
                        terms with his own. But Tandy had said nothing whatever about that. He never published his
                        enmities till the time came. About the time of Duncan"s return to Cairo, he added
                        another to his offenses against Tandy, in a way to intensify that malignant person"s
                        hostility.
                    Tandy was scheming to secure a costly extension of this branch railroad through a
                        sparsely settled  and thin-soiled region, in a way
                        that would greatly enrich himself, because of his vast property holdings there. He had well-nigh
                        persuaded a group of capitalists to undertake the extension when, acting cautiously as
                        financiers must, they decided to ask Duncan to study the situation and make a report upon the
                        project. He had already studied the question thoroughly during his stay at the mines, and was
                        convinced that nothing but loss could come of the attempt. The region through which the line
                        must run was too poor in agricultural and other resources to afford even a hope of a paying
                        traffic. The line itself must be a costly one because of certain topographical features, and
                        finally another and shorter line, closely paralleling this proposed extension, but running
                        through a much richer country, was already in course of construction.
                    Tandy knew all these things quite as well as Guilford Duncan did. But Tandy also knew
                        many methods in business with which Duncan was not familiar.
                    As soon as he was notified by the capitalists with whom he was negotiating that they
                        had employed Duncan to examine and report, and that their final decision would be largely
                        influenced by his judgment, Tandy, with special politeness, wrote to Duncan, asking him to call
                        at his house that evening "for a little consultation on business affairs that may
                        interest both of us."
                    Duncan well knew that he had offended Tandy in  the matter of the coal cars, but as Tandy had made no sign, he could see no
                        possible reason for refusing this request for a business consultation. Moreover, Guilford Duncan
                        felt himself under a double responsibility. He felt that he must not only guard and promote the
                        interests of those who had employed him to study this question, but that he was also under
                        obligations to consider carefully the interests involved on the other side. His function, he
                        felt, was essentially a judicial one. He knew one side of the case. It was his duty to hear the
                        other, and Tandy was the spokesman of that other.
                    Duncan"s reception at Tandy"s house was most gracious. The
                        gentlewomen of the family were present to greet him, and Mrs. Tandy said, in welcoming him:
                    "Sometimes I feel like hating businessit so dreadfully occupies you men. But
                        just now I am in love with business because it brings you to us in our home. We have never
                        before had the honor of even a call from you, Mr. Duncan."
                    "I have given little attention to social duties, Mrs. Tandy,"
                        Duncan began apologetically. "I have done next to no calling. You see"
                    "Oh, yes, I know how it is. Mr. Tandy says you are the most
                        "earnest" young man in Cairo, and of course we poor women folk understand that
                        you are too much engaged with what Mr. Tandy calls "affairs," to give any time
                        to us. But I am glad to greet you now, and to welcome you to our home.
                    
                    Perhaps, some day, when you and Mr. Tandy andand Captain Hallamhave got all the
                        things done that you want done, you will nave more time for social duties. Mr. Tandy tells me
                        you have achieved a remarkable success. He says you will soon be reckoned a rich man, and that
                        you are already a man of very great influence. Now, I shouldn"t say these things if I
                        had any daughters to marry off. As I haven"t any daughters, of course I am privileged.
                        But I seriously want to say that you have won Mr. Tandy"s regard in so great a degree
                        that he is planning to make you his partner and associate in all his enterprises. He says you
                        are to become one of our "great men of affairs," and that he means to have you
                        "with him" in all his undertakings for the development of our splendid western
                        country."
                    When the voluble woman ceased, Guilford Duncan wondered whence she had got her
                        speech.
                    "Tandy could never have composed it," he was sure. "She
                        must have done it herself. But, of course, Tandy gave her the "points." She is
                        a very clever woman. I remember it was she who invited Barbara as a guest of honor at some sort
                        of a function three days after Barbara appeared at the fancy dress ball. She had never noticed
                        her before. That woman is of a superior kindin her way. I can"t imagine a wife better
                        "fit" for a man like Tandy. All the same I don"t mean to let her
                        "take up" Barbara. She"s far too "smart." She
                        isn"t Barbara"s sort."
                    
                    "Now, I"ve ordered coffee and cigars for you gentlemen",
                        said Mrs. Tandy, as she arose to leave. "Of course you want to "talk
                        business," and when business is on the tapis we women folk must retire to our rooms.
                        Business is our greatest rival and enemy, Mr. Duncan. On this occasion I not only take myself
                        out of the way, but I have bidden my two sisters remain in the dining room until you two
                        gentlemen shall have finished your talk. After thatperhaps ten o"clock will suit youyou
                        are to come into the dining room, if you are gracious enough, and have a little super."
                    Duncan bowed, in implication of a promise, which he was not destined to fulfill.
                    When the gracious gentlewoman had left the room, Napper Tandy came at once to the
                        subject in hand.
                    "I"m more than glad, Duncan," he lyingly said,
                        "that these financial people have asked you to ex-amine and report upon this scheme of
                        extension. You are so heartily in sympathy with every enterprise that looks to the development
                        of our western country, and your intelligence is so superbly well informed that of course a
                        project like this appeals to you."
                    "It does not appeal to me at all, Mr. Tandy," answered Duncan with
                        a frankness that was the more brutal because it was his first word after Mrs. Tandy"s
                        flattering appeal.
                    "I do not think well of the extension. It"
                    "Pardon me for interrupting," interposed Tandy, in fear that Duncan
                        might commit himselt beyond  recall against the
                        scheme. "Pardon me for interrupting, but you must see that the Redwood mines, in which,
                        I understand, you own fifteen per cent."
                    "I own twenty-five per cent., for I have put my savings into that
                        enterprise," answered Duncan.
                    "Well, so much the better. You must see that the Redwood mines, in which you
                        own twenty-five per cent., will benefit as much as the Quentin mines do, by this extension of
                        the railroad. It will give us two markets for our coal instead of one. We can play one market
                        against the other, you see, and"
                    "That isn"t the question that I am employed and paid to
                        answer," interrupted Duncan. "You have other and vastly greater interests than
                        those of the mines, that would be served by the extension of the railroad. But the financiers
                        who are asked to put their money into this project will be in nowise benefited, either by the
                        increased earnings of your coal mine and ours, or by the development of your other and far
                        greater interests that are dependent upon this extension. So when they employ me to report upon
                        the project, I am not free to consider any of these things. I must consider only their
                        interests. I must ask myself whether or not it will" pay" them to undertake
                        this extension. I know that it will not. I know that the extended line cannot, within a generation to come, pay even
                        operating expenses, to say nothing of interest on the cost of construction. I am bound to set
                        forth those facts in my report. They pay me  to tell
                        them what the facts are. Of course, I shall tell them truly. Otherwise I should not be an honest
                        man. I should be a swindler, taking their money as pay for deceiving them and inducing them to
                        undertake a losing enterprise."
                    "Now wait a while, Duncan. Listen to me. Your worst fault, and, in business,
                        your worst handicap, is a tendency to go off at half-cock. You"ve learned a lot about
                        business since you came to the West, but you still have your old Southern notions, and they
                        embarrass you. Let me explain. I"m a business man, pure and simple. I haven t any
                        ideas, or prejudices, or foolishnesses of any kind. Neither have those fellows in New York who
                        have employed you to report on this scheme. They are playing the game, to win or lose as the
                        case may be. Generally, they win, but now and then, in a little matter like this, they lose. Of
                        course, they don"t mind. They take their losses and their winnings together, and if the
                        total result is on the right side they don"t bother about the times they have put their
                        money on the wrong card. It"s all a gamble with them, you know."
                    "Is it? Then why do they pay me a large fee to find out the facts and
                        report? "
                    "Oh, well"
                    "Hear me out," interrupted Duncan. "These gentlemen have
                        asked me for an opinion, and they are paying me for it. Of course I must, as an honest man, give
                        them an honest judgment."
                    
                    "Oh, that"s all right. But you might be mistaken, you know.
                        You"ve formed a judgment after a brief trip through the country. That country seems
                        poverty stricken just now, but that"s because it hasn"t enjoyed the
                        stimulating influence of a railroad. It is a better country than you think, as I can convince
                        you, if you"ll let me take you through it in a carriage. We can start at onceto-morrow
                        morningrun out to the mines by rail, and there take a carriage and drive through the country.
                        I"ve ordered the carriage, with abundant supplies, from Chicago. I want to show you the
                        resources of the country. I"ll convince you, before we get back, that the country will
                        build up as soon as the railroad penetrates it, and that there will be an abundant traffic for
                        the road."
                    "Pardon me," answered Duncan. "I"ve already been
                        through that region. I"ve questioned every farmer as to his crops. I"ve
                        questioned every merchant in every village as to his possible shipments by the railroad, and as
                        to the amount of goods he hopes to sell if the railroad is built. Their replies are hopelessly
                        discouraging. Taking their outside estimates as certain, there cannot be enough traffic over
                        such a line for twenty years to come, to pay operating expenses. In the meantime the men whom
                        you are asking to build the road must lose not only the interest on their investment, but the
                        investment itself. I know all the facts that bear upon the case."
                    
                    "All but one," answered Tandy.
                    "What is that one?"
                    "That a favorable report from you means a check, right now and here,
                        to-night, payable to "Bearer," for ten thousand dollars. My check is supposed
                        to be good for all it calls for. You can have it now and it will be cashed to-morrow morning.
                        Here it is. Payable to bearer as it is, you needn"t endorse it, and you need not be
                        known in the matter in any way. I"m talking " business"
                        now."
                    Duncan scanned the face of his interlocutor for an instant. Then he rose from his
                        seat, and with utterance choked by emotion managed to say:
                    "I quite understand. You would bribe me with that check. You would hire me
                        to betray the confidence of the men who are paying me a very much smaller sum than ten thousand
                        dollars. You propose to buy my integrity, my honor, my soul. Very well. My integrity, my honor,
                        and my soul are not for sale at any price. I shall make an honest report in this matter.
                        Good-night, sir! Perhaps you will make my excuses to the ladies for not joining them at supper
                        as I promised to do. As for the rest, you may explain to them that I am not such a scoundrel as
                        you hoped I might be."
                    And with that Guilford Duncan stalked out of the house, helping himself to his hat as
                        he passed the rack in the entry way.
                
                
                
                    XXII
                    >UNDER
                        THE HONEYSUCKLES
                    
                    IF Guilford Duncan had been a little more worldly wise than he was, he would have
                        gone at once to Captain Will Hallam. He would have told that shrewdest of shrewd men of the
                        world all that had passed between himself and Tandy, and he would have asked Will
                        Hallam"s advice as to what course to pursue.
                    Instead of that Guilford Duncan went at once to Barbara. He felt a need of sympathy
                        rather than a need of advice, and he had learned to look to Barbara, above all other people in
                        the world, for sympathy.
                    He was still a good deal disturbed in his emotions when Barbara greeted him in the
                        little porch, and it was a rather confused account that he gave her of what had happened.
                    "I don"t quite understand," said Barbara at last.
                        "Perhaps if you have a cup of tea you can make the matter clearer" and without
                        waiting for assent or dissent, she glided out to the kitchen, whence she presently returned
                        bearing a fragrant cup of Oolong.
                    "Now," she said, after he had sipped the tea, "tell me
                        again just what has happened. You were too  much
                        excited, when you told me before, to tell me clearly."
                    "Well, it amounts to this," answered Duncan. "That
                        scoundrel Tandy"
                    "Stop!" said Barbara, in an authoritative tone. "Never
                        mind Tandy"s character. If you go off on that you"ll never make me
                        understand."
                    In spite of his agitation, Duncan laughed. "How you do order me
                        about!"
                    "Oh, pardon me!" exclaimed the girl in manifest alarm. " I
                        didn"t mean to do that. I would never think of doing such a thing. I only
                        meant"
                    "My dear Miss Barbara, I fully understand. I need ordering about to-night,
                        and I heartily wish you would take me in hand."
                    "Oh, but I could never presume to do that!"
                    "I don"t see why," answered Duncan. " You are my
                        good angel, and it is the business of my good angel to regulate me and make me behave as I
                        should."
                    "But, Mr. Duncan"
                    "But, Barbara "it was the first time he had ever addressed her by
                        her given name and without the "Miss""you know I love youor you ought
                        to know it. You know I want you to be my wife. Say that you will, and then I shall be free to
                        tell you all my troubles and to take your advice in all of them. Say that you love me, Barbara!
                        Say that you will marry me!
                    
                    All this was in contravention of Guilford Duncan"s carefully laid plans, as
                        a declaration of love is apt to be, so long as women are fascinating and men are human. He had
                        intended to put the thought of his love for Barbara into her unsuspecting mind by ingenious
                        "trick and device." It had been his plan presently to escort her to church, to
                        the concerts that now and then held forth at the Athenum, to Mrs. Hallam"s for a game
                        of croquet, to Mrs. Galagher"s for the little dances that that gracious gentlewoman
                        gave now and then, even in the heat of a southern Illinois summer. He had even chartered a
                        steamboat, and planned to give a picnic in the Kentucky woodlands below Cairo, to which he
                        should escort Barbara. He had thought in these ways to set the tongues of all the gossips
                        wagging, and thus to force upon Barbara the thought of his love for her.
                    All was now spoiled, as he thought, when lie so precipitately declared his love there
                        in the vine-clad porch.
                    Barbara was obviously surprised. Duncan could not quite make out whether she was
                        shocked or not, whether his declaration of love pleased or distressed her.
                    For she made no answer whatever. Instead she nervously plucked honeysuckles and still
                        more nervously let them fall from her hands.
                    Duncan was standing now, and in torture lest he had spoiled all by his precipitancy.
                        He waited, as  patiently as he could, for the
                        girl"s answer, but it came not. Her silence seemed ominous to him. It seemed to mean
                        that she was shocked and offended by a declaration of love, for which he had not in any wise
                        prepared her.
                    But Duncan was a man of action. It was not his habit to accept defeat without
                        challenging it and demanding its reasons. So presently he advanced, passed his arm around
                        Barbara"s waist, and gently caressed her forehead, as a father or an older brother
                        might have done.
                    She accepted the caress in that spirit, seemingly, and then she turned toward the
                        hall door, saying:
                    "Goodnight!"
                    But Duncan was not to be so baffled. He had blundered upon a declaration of loveas
                        most men do who really loveand he did not intend to go away without his answer.
                    "Don"t say "good-night" yet," he
                        pleaded, again passing his arm around her waist. "Tell me first, is it yes or no? Will
                        you be my wife?"
                    The girl turned and faced him. There was that in her eyes which he had never seen
                        there before, and which he could not interpret. At last her lips parted, and she said:
                    "I cannot tell, yet. You must wait."
                    And with that she slipped through the door, leaving him no recourse but to take his
                        leave without other formality that the closing of the front gate.
                
                
                
                    XXIII
                    CAPTAIN WILL HALLAM
                        IN
                        THE GAME
                    
                    THE next morning, very early, Guilford Duncan"s servantfor he kept one
                        nowbrought him a note from him a note from Barbara. It read in this wise:
                    I wish you would take your meals at the hotel for a few days, or a week or twotill
                        you hear from me again.
                    There was no address written at top of the sheet, and no signature at the bottom.
                        There was nothing that could afford even a ground for conjectural explanation. There was nothing
                        that could call for a replyperhaps there was nothing that could warrant a reply or excuse its
                        impertinence. Nevertheless Guilford Duncan sent, by the hands of his negro servitor, an answer
                        to the strange note. In it he wrote:
                    I have told you of my love. I tell you that again, with all of emphasis that I can
                        give to the telling. I have asked you to be my wife. I ask it again with all of earnestness and
                        sincerity, with all of supplication, that I can put into the asking.  Oh, Barbara, you can never know or dream or remotely imagine how much
                        these things mean to me and to my life.
                    I shall take my meals at the hotelor not at allyou bid me come to you for my answer.
                    Then, with resolute and self-controlled mind, Guilford Duncan set himself to work. He
                        prepared his report upon the proposed railroad extension, condemning it and giving adequate
                        reasons for his condemntation.
                    He was still indignant that Napper Tandy should have offered him a bribe, and in the
                        first draft of his report he had made a statement of that fact as an additional reason for his
                        adverse judgment. But upon reflection he rewrote the report, omitting all mention of the bribe
                        offer. Then he wrote to Tandya grievous mistaketelling him that he had sent in an adverse
                        report, and that he had omitted to mention Tandy"s offer in it.
                    This gave Tandy the opportunity he wanted and Guilford Duncan was not long in
                        discovering the fact. A week later Captain Will Hallam said to him:
                    "So you"ve been quarreling with Napper Tandy?"
                    "Yes," answered Duncan. "He offered to bribe me to make a
                        false report in the railroad extension matter."
                    "Why didn"t you tell me about it?"
                    "Oh, I didn"t want to bother you with a whining. I rejected the
                        bribe, of course, and told him what I thought of him, and that seemed to me enough."
                    
                    "Well, it wasn"t. You ought to have told me. Then we could have
                        made him put his offer into writing, or make it in my presence. As it is, he"s got you
                        where the hair is uncommonly short."
                    "How do you mean?"
                    "Why, he has written to the financiers, telling them that as soon as they
                        employed you, you went to him and demanded a payment of ten thousand dollars as an inducement to
                        you to make a favorable report; that he refused, and that consequently your report was adverse.
                        They will refuse to build the railroad, but they have written to ask me as to your
                        integrity."
                    "The infernal scoundrel! How"
                    "It doesn"t pay to call him names. We must think out a way to meet
                        this thing."
                    "I"ll horsewhip him on the street!" exclaimed Duncan
                    "No, don"t! That would only advertise the matter and do no good. A
                        man of your physique has no occasion for fear in horsewhipping a man like Napper Tandy, and can
                        show no courage by doing it. The only result would be that people would say there must be
                        something in his accusation, else you wouldn"t be so mad about it. You have made a good
                        many enemies, you know, and they will take pleasure in repeating Tandy"s accusations.
                        Really, Duncan, you ought to have been more discreet. You ought to have taken a witness with
                        you, when you went to his house for  consultation. As
                        it is, the financiers have so far believed in you as to reject his scheme on your report, and in
                        face of his accusation, but he"ll do you a mighty lot of damage in Cairo and elsewhere.
                        I don"t know what to do."
                    "I do," answered Guilford Duncan resolutely. "A year ago
                        you and Ober wanted to make me mayor of this town. I explained to you that I was ineligible
                        then, not having been long enough a resident of the State. I am eligible now, and I shall
                        announce my-self to-day as a candidate."
                    "What good will that do?"
                    "It will give the people of the city a chance to pass upon my integrityto
                        say by their ballots what they think of me; and, incidentally, it may give me an opportunity to
                        say what I think and know of Napper Tandy."
                    "I don"t know so well about that. You see, people don"t
                        always express their opinions by their votes. They let their politics and their prejudices have
                        a say, and you know you have made a good many enemies. Then again, what good will it do you to
                        tell the public what you think of Tandy? That won"t convince a living soul who
                        isn"t convinced already. The rest will say that you are naturally very angry with the
                        man who found you outthe man from whom you unsuccessfully tried to extort a bribe. You see there
                        were no witnesses present when your interview with Tandy occurred. That was a capital mistake on
                        your  part. Then, too, you went to his house for this
                        business, and people will say that that, too, looks bad. You have destroyed the invitation he
                        sent you, and so you have nothing to show that you didn"t go to his house, as he says
                        you did, without invitation, in order to extort a bribe. It"s a bad mix-up, but for you
                        to go into politics would only make it worse. We must find another way out. Keep perfectly
                        still, and leave the matter to me. I"ll plan something." Then suddenly a
                        thought flashed into Captain Will Hallam"s mind.
                    "By Jove! I"ve got it, I believe. Go down to our bank and ask the
                        cashier, Mr. Stafford, how many shares we can control in the X NationalTandy"s bank;
                        he"s president, you know."
                    Without at all understanding Captain Hallam"s purpose, Duncan went upon this
                        mission, returning presently with the information that in one way and another the Hallam bank
                        controlled forty-eight shares of the X National"s stockor three shares less than a
                        majority of the whole. He brought also the message from Stafford that as Tandy himself
                        controlled the remaining fifty-two shares it would probably be impossible at present to buy any
                        more.
                    "I don"t know so well about that," said Hallam
                        reflectively. "I"ve managed in my time to get a good many impossible things
                        done. I"m not a very firm believer in the impossible." Then suddenly he turned
                        to Duncan and fired a Question at him:
                    
                    "Have you a friend anywhere whom you can trustone not known in
                        Cairo?"
                    "Yes, one."
                    "You are sure you can trust him?"
                    "Yes, absolutely."
                    "You wouldn"t hesitate to put a pile of money into his hands
                        without a scrap of paper to show that the money was yours, not his?"
                    "I would trust him as absolutely as I would trust you, or you me."
                    "All right, who is he?"
                    "Dick Templethe mining engineer and superintendent."
                    Telegraph him at once. Ask him to come down on the evening train. Tell him to say
                        nothing about knowing you or me, but to come to your rooms this evening, I"ll see him
                        there."
                    Duncan took up a pad of telegraph blanks and a pencil. He had scarcely begun to write
                        when Hal-lam stopped him.
                    "Never do that," he exclaimed. "Never write a message on a
                        pad, especially with a pencil."
                    "But why not?"
                    "See!" answered Hallam, tearing off the blank on which Duncan had
                        begun to write, and directing attention to the blank that lay beneath. "The impression
                        made by the pencil on the under sheet is as legible as the writing above. It would be awkward if
                        Tandy should pick up that pad and find out what  you
                        had telegraphed. Always tear the top blank off the pad and lay it on the desk before you write
                        on it."
                    "Thank you! That"s another of your wise precepts. I wonder I
                        didn"t think of it before."
                    "Oh, hardly anybody ever does think of such things, but they make
                        trouble."
                    That night Hallam, Duncan, and Temple met in Duncan"s rooms. Hallam promptly
                        took possession by requesting Duncan to "go away somewhere, while I explain matters to
                        Temple."
                    When Duncan had taken his leave Hallam plunged at once into the heart of things.
                    "Duncan tells me you"re his friendone who will stand by
                        him?"
                    "I am all that, you may be sure, Captain Hallam."
                    "Very good. Now is the time to show yourself such. Duncan has got himself
                        into something worse than a hole, and his whole career, to say nothing of his honorable
                        reputation, is in danger. You and I can save him."
                    "Would you mind telling me the exact situation? Not that I need to know it
                        in order to do anything you think would be helpful, but if I fully understand the matter, I
                        shall know better what to do in any little emergency that may come about.
                    "Of course, of course. It"s simply this way. Duncan is so straight
                        himself that it never occurs to  him that other
                        people are different. There are some things so utterly mean that he simply can"t
                        imagine any man capable of doing them. So he doesn"t take necessary precautions. It was
                        all right for him to offend Napper Tandy by doing his own best up there at the mines. But he
                        ought to nave known enough of human nature not to put himself in old Napper"s power
                        when he felt bound to offend him worse than ever."
                    Then Captain Will told in detail the story of the visit to Tandy, the bribe offer,
                        the adverse report, and the way in which Tandy had made the whole affair appear to have been an
                        effort on Duncan"s part to extort a bribe and betray those who had employed him. Temple
                        readily grasped the situation.
                    "The worst of it is," he said, "Duncan can"t even
                        sue the old scoundrel for libel without making matters worse. Tandy would stick to his story,
                        and as there were no witnesses that story would seem probable to people who don"t know
                        Duncan. What are we to do, Captain Hallam?"
                    "Well, it all depends upon your shrewdness and circumspection. Tandy is
                        president of the X National Bank, you know. That"s his club to fight me with. So,
                        little by little, I"ve bought in therethrough other people, you understandso that now
                        Stafford and I own forty-eight of the bank"s hundred shares of stock, though on the
                        books our names do not appear at all. Tandy owns the other fifty-two  shares, I suppose, or at least he controls them. Indeed, whenever a
                        stockholder"s meeting occurs he votes practically all the stock, for it has been my
                        policy to hide my hand by having the men who hold stock for me, give him their proxies as a
                        blind.
                    "Now, what I propose is, that you shall manage somehow to get hold of a
                        little block of the stockthree shares will to enough to give me the majority, but I"d
                        rather make it four or five shares. If we can get the stock I"ll surprise Tandy out of
                        a year"s growth by going into the stockholders" meeting, which occurs about
                        ten days from now, and proceeding to elect a board of directors for the bank. I"ll
                        select the men I want for directors, and the board will at once make Guilford Duncan president
                        of the bank, leaving old Napper a good deal of leisure in which to enjoy life. He"ll
                        need it all to convince anybody that there"s anything shady in Guilford
                        Duncan"s character after it is known that Will Hallam has made him president of a
                        bank."
                    Hallam chuckled audibly. He was enjoying the game, as he always did.
                    "Indeed, he will. But everything, as I understand it, depends upon my
                        ability to secure the necessary shares of stock?"
                    "Yes, it all hangs on that, and it will be a ticklish job. Tandy is as wily
                        as any old fox. You"re sure he doesn"t know you? "
                    " Neither by sight nor by name."
                    
                    "You"re sure nobody in his bank knows you and your relations with
                        me?"
                    "Yes, I am certain. I was never in this town before, and as for my relations
                        with you, why they have existed for so brief a time, at such a distance from Cairo, and are so
                        obscure in themselves, that I think nobody knows them. Besides, you might discharge me, you
                        know, if that should become necessary."
                    "We won"t consider that as even possible. Now, as to ways and
                        means. You see I depend upon you alone, and of course you must have a free hand. You
                        mustn"t consult me, or Stafford, or Duncan, or anybody else. You are to act on your own
                        judgment, furnish your own supply of sagacity, and get that stock in your own way."
                    "I"ll do it, even if I have to resign from your service and hunt
                        another job. But I must have some money."
                    "Of course. How much?"
                    "Well, the stock will cost a trifle over par, I sup-posesomewhat more than a
                        thousand dollars a share. I should be prepared to buy a block of ten shares. You see, I might
                        find a block of that kind which the owner would sell "all or none." I should
                        have, say, eleven or twelve thousand dollars at instant command."
                    "All right. I"ll have Stafford open an account with you in our bank
                        to-morrow morning, with a  credit balance of twelve
                        thousand, and you can check"
                    "Pardon me, but if I offer checks on your bank Tandy will suspect our
                        alliance."
                    "That is true. You must have the greenbacks themselves. I"ll send
                        for Stafford now and have him give you the money in large bills to-night."
                    "Pardon me," answered Temple, "but if I go to him with so
                        great a sum in actual"
                    "Yes, I see. That would certainly arouse suspicion. What have you in
                        mind?"
                    "Why, you or your bank must have banks in correspondence with you, banks in
                        Chicago, or better still, New York?"
                    "Yes, of course."
                    "Can you not telegraph to one of them and arrrange to have them say in
                        response to a dispatch of inquiry from Tandy"s bank, that my credit with them is good
                        for twelve thousand dollars, and that if I wish to make use of some money in Cairo, they will
                        pay my drafts up to that amount?"
                    "That"s it. That will be the best plan in every way.
                        You"ll need identification, and I"ll arrange that. You"re stopping at
                        the hotel, of course?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Very well. I"ll call by there on my way home, and tell the
                        proprietor, Jewett, to go to the bank and identify you whenever called upon."
                    "Will he not talk?"
                    
                    " No. I"ll tell him not to, andwell, you know, I"m just
                        now arranging a heavy loan for him. He is paying off the remaining purchase money for the hotel
                        in installments. That"s all, I think. I"ll send the Fourth National Bank of
                        New York a night message. It will be delivered before banking hours tomorrow morning, but for
                        fear of slips, you"d better wait till noon before giving that bank as your reference.
                        Good-night. Remember that everything depends on youincluding Guilford Duncan"s
                        reputation for integrity."
                    Temple sat for half an hour thinking and planning. He was determined to make no
                        mistakes that might imperil success. To that end he was trying to imagine, in advance, every
                        difficulty and every emergency that might arise. At last he rose, took his hat, turned the lamp
                        out, and left the room.
                    "This is the very toughest bit of engineering," he reflected,
                        "that ever I undertook. Well, so much the greater the credit if I succeed. But I
                        don"t care for the credit. I care only for Guilford Duncan in this case."
                
                
                
                    XXIV
                    BARBARA"s ANSWER
                    
                    WHEN Duncan left his room, on the evening of Temple"s conference with Will
                        Hallam, he passed down the stairs and into the Hallam offices, where he still had a little
                        working den of his own for use when he did not care to see the people who sought him at his law
                        office.
                    As he entered he found a little note upon his desk, and he recognized
                        Barbara"s small round hand in the superscription. Opening the envelope eagerly he read
                        the few lines within:
                    Your may come for your answer whenever it is convenientany evening, I mean, for I am
                        at leisure only in the evening There is a great deal for me to tell you, and it is going to be
                        very hard for me to tell it. But it is my duty, and I must do it, of course. I"am
                        afraid it won"t be a pleasant evening for either of us.
                    There was no address, but Duncan observed with pleasure, as a hopeful sign, that the
                        little missive was signed "Barbara."
                    "She wouldn"t have signed it in that informal way,  with only her first name, if she meant to break off
                        the acquaintance," he argued with himself. And yet the substance of the note was
                        discouraging in the extreme, so that Guilford Duncan was a very apprehensive and unhappy man as
                        he hurried to Barbara"s home. He still held her note crushed in his hand as he entered
                        the house, and he read it over twice while waiting for her to appear. For this timethe first in
                        his acquaintance with herBarbara kept him waiting. She had not meant to do that, but found it
                        necessary because of her own agitation in anticipation of the grievous task that was hers to do.
                        She must resolutely bring herself under control, she felt, before meeting this crisis. She even
                        tried in vain to "think out" the first sentences that she must speak. Finding
                        this impossible she gave it up at last, and with all of composure that she could command, she
                        entered the parlor and stood face to face with Guilford Duncan.
                    She could say no word as he stood looting eagerly into her eyes, as if questioning
                        them. He, too, was silent for perhaps a minute, when at last, realizing the girl"s
                        distressing agitation, he gently took her hand, saying in his soft, winning voice:
                    "You are not well. You must sit down."
                    "Oh, it isn"t that," she answered, as she seated herself
                        bolt upright upon the least easy chair in the room. "It is what I must tell
                        you."
                    "What is it? I am waiting anxiously to hear."
                    
                    "You must be very patient then," she answered with difficulty.
                        "It is hard to say, and I don"t know where to begin. Oh, yes, I know now. I
                        must begin where we left off whenwell, that other time."
                    Duncan saw that she needed assistance, and he gave it by speaking soothingly to her,
                        saying:
                    "You are to begin wherever you find it easiest to begin, and you are to tell
                        me nothing that it distresses you to tell."
                    "Oh, but all of it distresses me, and I must tell itall of it."
                    Again Duncan spoke soothingly, and presently the girl began again.
                    "Well, first, I can neverI mean I mustn"tI mustn"t say
                        "yes" to the questions you asked me that other time,"
                    "You mean when I asked if you would be my wife?"
                    "Yes. That"s it. Thank you very much. That"s the first
                        thing I am to tell you."
                    "Who bade you tell me that?"
                    " Oh, nobodyor ratherI mean nobody told me I mustn"t say
                        "yes," but after I had made up my mind that I mustn"t, then auntie
                        said I was bound to tell you about it all. I wanted to write it, but she said that
                        wouldn"t be fair, and that I must tell you myself."
                    "But why did you make up your mind that you mustn"t say
                        "yes"? Can you not love me, Barbara?"
                    
                    "Oh, yesI mean noor ratherI mustn"t."
                    "But if you can, why is it that you mustn"t?"
                    That question at last gave Barbara courage to speak. It seemed to nerve her for the
                        ordeal, and, at the same time, to point a way for the telling.
                    "Why, I mustn"t love you, Mr. Duncan, because I cannot marry you.
                        You see, that would be very wrong. When youwell, when you asked me those questions, it startled
                        me, and I didn"t know what to say, but after you had gone away that night I saw clearly
                        that I mustn"t think of such a thing. It would be so unfair to you."
                    "But how would it be unfair? It would be doing the one thing in the world
                        that I want you to do. It would be giving me the one woman in the world whom I want for my wife,
                        the only woman I shall ever think of marrying."
                    "But you mustn"t think of that any more. You see, Mr. Duncan, I am
                        not fit to be your wife. I should be a terrible drag upon you. You are already a man of
                        prominence and everybody says you are soon to become a man of great distinction. You must have a
                        wife worthy of such a man, a wife who can help him and do him credit in society. Now you know I
                        could never become that sort of woman. I am only an. obscure girl. I don"t know how. I
                        can not talk brilliantly. I couldn"t impress people as your wife must. I am not even
                        educated in any regular way. I"ve just grown up in my own fashion  in the shade as it wereand the strong sunlight would only emphasize
                        my insignificance."
                    Duncan tried to interrupt, but she quickly cut him short.
                    "Let me go on, please. You are very generous, and you want to persuade me
                        that I undervalue myself. You would convince me, if you could, that I am a great deal worthier
                        than I think myself. I know better. You are very modest, and you would like to make me believe
                        that you will never be a much more distinguished man than you are already, but again I know
                        better. Probably you wouldn"t become much more than you are, if you were to marry me,
                        but that is because I should be a clog upon your life."
                    "Will you let me say one word at this point, Barbara?" broke in
                        Duncan, in spite of her effort to prevent.
                    "You are wronging yourself and you are wronging me. As God lives I tell you
                        there is no woman in the world so fit to be my wife as you are. My only wish is that I were
                        worthy to have such a wife! I intend, of course, to achieve all that I canto make the best use I
                        can of such faculties as I possess, but nothing imaginable could so greatly help me to do that
                        as the inspiration of your love, and the stimulus of knowing that you were to be always by my
                        side, to share in all the good that might come to me, to cheer me in disappointment, to help me
                        endure, and above all, to  strengthen me for my work
                        in the world by your wise and loving counsel. For you are a very wise woman, Barbara, though you
                        do not know it. You look things squarely in the face. You think soundly because you think with
                        absolute and fearless sincerity. You are shy and timid, and self-distrustful. Thank God, you
                        will never grow completely out of that, as so many women do. Your modesty will always remain a
                        crown of glory to your character. But as you grow older, retaining your instinctive impulse to
                        do well every duty that may lie before you, you will acquire enough of self-confidence to equip
                        you for all emergencies. You are very young yeteven younger in feeling than in years. You will
                        grow with every year into a more perfect womanhood."
                    An occasional tear was by this time trickling down the girl"s cheeks. How
                        could it be otherwise when the man she loved and honored above all others was so tenderly saying
                        such things of her, and to her, with a sincerity too greatly passionate to be open to any doubt?
                        How could it be otherwise when she knew that she must put aside the love of this man, her
                        herothe only love, as she knew in her inmost soul, that she could ever think of with rejoicing
                        so long as she should live?
                    She would have interrupted the passionate pleading if her voice had been under
                        control. As it was she sat silent, while he went on.
                    "I have spoken of my ambitions first, and of your  capacity to help them, not because such things are first in my
                        estimation, but because you have treated them as worthy of being put first. There are much
                        higher things to be thought of. What a man achieves is of far
                        less consequence than what a man is. That which I ask of you is
                        to help me be the best that I am capable of being, and for you to
                            be it with me. I want to make the most, the best, the
                        happiest life for you that is possible. If I am permitted to do that, with you to help me do it,
                        it will be an achievement of far greater benefit to the world than any possible external success
                        can be. The home is immeasurably more important, as a factor in human life, and in national
                        life, than the mart, or the senate, or the pulpit, or any other influence can be. It is in happy
                        homes that the saving virtues of humanity arc born and nourished. From such homes, more than
                        from all the pulpits, and all the institutions of learning, there flows an influence for good
                        that sweetens all life, preserves morality, and keeps us human beings fit to live. Oh, Barbara,
                        you will never know how longingly I dream of such a home with you at its head! You cannot know
                        how absolutely the worthiness of my life depends upon such a linking of it with yours."
                    The girl had completely given way to her emotions now, but with that resolute
                        self-mastery which was a dominant note in her nature, she presently con-trolled herself. The
                        picture that his words had created in her imagination was alluring in the extreme.  But she was strong enough to put the dream of
                        happiness aside.
                    "You do not know all," she said. "You have not heard all I
                        have to tell you. You haven"t heard the most important part of it. I have only told you
                        what I thought on that evening whenwhen you askedquestions. I still think that ought to settle
                        the matter, but you seem to thinkperhaps you might have convinced me, or at leastoh, you
                        don"t know! There are other reasonsstronger reasons, reasons that nothing can
                        remove."
                    "Tell me of them. I can imagine no reason whatever that could satisfy
                        me."
                    "It is very hard to tell. You know I never knew my parents. Both my mother
                        and my father died on the day I was born. I seem to know my mother, because auntie loved, her so
                        much, and has talked to me so much about her all my life. But she never talked to me much about
                        my father. His family was a good onehis father having been a banker, with some reputation as an
                        artist also, and my father was his partner in business. But that is all I know of my fatherno,
                        that isn"t what I meant to say. I meant to say that that is all my aunt ever told me
                        about him, and all I knew until the night when you asked mequestions. After you went away that
                        evening, I went to my room and thought the matter out. I have already told you what conclusions
                        I reached. When I had decided, I went to auntie"s room and sat on the side  of her bed and told her everything. She cried very
                        bitterlyI didn"t understand why at first. After a while she said she didn"t at
                        all agree with me in my conclusions, and added:
                    ""If the things you mention were all, Bab, I should tell you to
                        stop thinking of them, and let Mr. Duncan judge for himself. But there is something else,
                        Babsomething very dreadful. I never intended to tell you of it, but now I must. You would find
                        it out very soon, for Tandy"s wife knows it, and if she heard that there was anything
                        between you and Mr. Duncan, she would make haste to talk of itparticularly after what has
                        happened between Tandy and Mr. Duncan. Then you would never forgive me for not telling
                        you."
                    "She went on then, and told me what I must tell you. She told me, Mr.
                        Duncan, that I am the daughter of a Thief!"
                    The girl paused, unable to go on. Duncan saw that she was suffering acutely, and he
                        determined to spare her.
                    "You must stop now, Barbara," he said m a caressing tone.
                        "You are overwrought. I will hear the rest another timewhen you feel stronger and send
                        for me. I am going to say good-night now, so that you may rest. But before I go I want to say
                        that nothing you have told me can make the least difference in my feelings, or my desires, or my
                        purposes. You are what you are.
                        Nothing else matters.  When you feel strong enough, I
                        will come again and persuade you to be my wife. Goodnight!"
                    As she stood facing him, with unutterable distress in every line of her face, he
                        leaned forward impulsively, but with extreme gentleness, and reverently kissed her.
                
                
                
                    XXV
                    TEMPLE
                        AND TANDY
                    
                    "ON the morning after his consultation with Captain Will Hallam, Richard
                        Temple had his first interview with Tandy. Jewett, the hotel proprietor, walked with him to the
                        X National Bank, took him into the bank parlor, and introduced him to the president, intimating
                        that lie would probably wish to do some business with the bank, and assuring Tandy that the
                        young man was "as square as they make" cm."
                    Tandy welcomed the visitor cordially, and when Jewett had bowed himself out, Temple
                        opened negotiations, very cautiously and with every seeming of indecision, as to what he might
                        ultimately decide to do.
                    "I have a little money, Mr. Tandy, that I may want to invest. I"m
                        rather a stranger in Cairo. I wonder if you, as a banker, would mind advising me. Of course, if
                        I make any investments, I shall do so through your bank."
                    "It is my business to advise investors, Mr. Temple,  and in your case it is also a pleasure, if I may be permitted to say
                        so. What are your ideasin a general way, I mean?"
                    "It would be somewhat difficult for me to"
                    "Oh, I quite understand. You haven"t yet made up your mind. You
                        want to look about you, eh? Well, that"s right. There"s more harm done by
                        haste in making investments than by anything else. There are lots of "cats and
                        dogs" on the market. Of course they"re a good buy sometimes, if a man wants to
                        take long chances for the sake of big profits, and if he is in a position to watch the market.
                        But it"s awfully risky. Still"
                    Tandy hesitated and did not complete his sentence for a time. He was wondering just
                        "how much of a sucker" this young man might be. Tandy himself held some small
                        blocks of securities which might very properly be reckoned in the feline and canine class. He
                        wondered if it might not be possible to "work off" some of these, in company
                        with some better stocks, on this young man. He was closely scrutinizing Temple"s
                        visage, trying to "size him up." After seeming to meditate for a brief space,
                        he resumed:
                    "It is risky, of course. Still, if a man is in position to watch the market
                        closely, and sell out at the proper time, it sometimes turns out well to buy a few inferior
                        stocks, when buying a lot of better ones. I"ve known it to happen that a lucky turn in
                        the  market enabled a man to sell out his inferior
                        stocks at a profit big enough to pay for the good ones. You see the inferior stocks can be
                        bought for so little on a dull market, such as we have at present, that there can"t be
                        a very great risk in buying them in moderate quantities, while buying better securities in the
                        main. And there"s always a chance of a lucky turn in the market, and with it a chance
                        of great profits."
                    Temple did not interrupt the flow of Tandy"s financial exposition. He had
                        three reasonsall of them goodfor wishing Tandy to talk on. In the first place he was waiting for
                        noonday, before mentioning his credit in the Fourth National Bank of New York. In the second
                        place it was his "cue" to sit reverently at the feet of this great financier,
                        and to make as little display as possible of his own sagacity. Finally, he was studying
                        Tandy"sizing him up"finding out, for future use, all that he needed to know
                        about the man with whom he had to deal. This was the result of the "sizing
                        up," as it formulated itself in what might be called a "first draft,"
                        in Temple"s mind:
                    "He"s a smooth, plausible, conscienceless scoundrel;
                    "He"s so far filled with self-conceit that it sometimes blinds him;
                    "He would gladly swindle me out of my eyes, if he could do so without being
                        caught; but if he can"t swindle me, he will be glad to do business with me "on
                        the square," as he would put it."
                    
                    But Temple wanted to complete and revise and, if necessary, correct this first draft
                        of his "sizing up," and so he wanted Tandy to go on talking.
                    "I am not much disposed to speculate in doubtful securities," he
                        said. "I can"t afford it, for one thing, and, of course, I am not in position
                        to watch the market, as you say. What I would like is to put a. few thousands into some good,
                        safe, dividend-paying security. Of course"
                    "You"re right, of course. Still, if you choose to take some small
                        risk, I could watch the market for you. I often do that for customers of the bank. I"m
                        naturally in a position to know what s going on. By the way, how much money have you to
                        invest?"
                    "I have twelve thousand dollars in New York"
                    "Where the interest rates are small," interrupted Tandy.
                        "You want to bring it West, where it will earn more. I understand. You"re
                        right in that. The West is the place for men and money to do the best they can for themselves.
                        This part of the country is growing like Jack"s beanstalk. You must have noticed
                        it."
                    "I certainly have. Indeed, I suppose that never before in all history did
                        any region grow so fast or so solidly."
                    "There! You"ve hit the nail on the head," said Tandy.
                        "Solidly! And that accounts for many things. The conservative people of the East never
                        saw anything like it, and they can"t quite believe it.  They don"t realize the wonderful soundness of things out here. They
                        have learned to think that high interest means poor security. In the East, where there is plenty
                        of money and very little development going on, it does. But here in the West the case is
                        different. Here, interest is high and dividends large, simply because the country is growing so
                        rapidly, and developing its resources so wonderfully fast. Let me illustrate. My friend, Captain
                        Hallam, recently bought a mine up the State. It hadn"t been properly developed, so he
                        bought it at a low price and capitalized it at cost, adding a trine for improvements. That mine
                        is now paying twenty per cent. dividends on its stock, in addition to a large expenditure every
                        month for improvements. Then, again, Captain Hallam is soiling off the farms on the surface at a
                        price that will presently pay the whole first cost of the mine. When that is done, the mine will
                        stand him in just nothing at all, and all the dividends the stockholders get will be just like
                        so much money foundpicked up from the prairie grass, I might say. Is there any danger in that
                        sort of thing? Is a share of that stock a doubtful security to the man who has already got back
                        the entire purchase price? True, it pays twenty per cent, dividends on its face, and that scares
                        the conservative galoots in New York. That"s just because they have got it ground into
                        their minds that high interest always means poor security. But, come. I want to take you for a
                        drive around  Cairo, to show you what we are doing
                        here and what we are planning to do. I think when you see it you"ll know for yourself
                        where to put your money. Can you go with me for a drive?"
                    "Very gladly. But first, I want to arrange to bring to Cairo what money I
                        have. I may not want to invest it all here, but it will be handy to have it here. I should like
                        to put it into your bank as a deposit. But I must draw on New York for it, and get you to take
                        my draft. Won"t you direct your cashier to telegraph the Fourth National Bank of New
                        York, asking for what amount my drafts on that institution will be honored? Then, when we get
                        back from our drive, I"ll draw for the money and place it on deposit with your bank,
                        where I can put my hands upon it when necessary."
                    The telegram was sent, and then Tandy took Tem-pie in his carriageone of the best in
                        Cairo at that timeand showed him all there was of resource in the town, lecturing, meanwhile, on
                        the prospects of Cairo as a future great commercial and manufacturing center. Ho showed him all
                        there was to be shown, and then said to him:
                    "Now, I"m an apostle of Western development, but still more
                        I"m an apostle of the development of Cairo. I"m a bull on the country, and a
                        bull on this city. There is much to be done, and it will require the investment of a great deal
                        of money. But the investments will pay as nothing else promises to do. We  must have grain elevators, and mills, and all the rest of it.
                        We"ve two big flour mills already, and there will be two or three more within a year.
                        They must have barrels by thousands and tens of thousands. Now a man of your intelligence must
                        see that empty barrels, being bulky, are costly things to transport over long distances, while
                        the mills must buy them at the lowest possible price. Otherwise they can"t sell flour
                        in competition with the mills of other cities. So the necessity of having a big barrel factory
                        here is obvious, and so is the profit. I am just forming a company for that purpose. We have
                        abundant timber right at hand, just across the two rivers, in Missouri and Kentucky. We can make
                        barrels at less cost than they can be had for in any other city, while we have a local market
                        that will be unfailing. The company is capitalized at twenty-five thousand dollars, and a good
                        part of it is already subscribed."
                    He did not say that none of it had been paid for yet, and that he was unsuccessfully
                        trying to find buyers for it.
                    "It"s a sure thing. The profits will be large from the beginning,
                        and the stock, as soon as the factory is in operation, will jump up fifty per cent, at least. If
                        you want a thousand or so of it, I"ll let you in on the ground floor. Otherwise,
                        I"ll take it myself."
                    "That impresses me very favorably," answered Temple truthfully.
                        "It is an enterprise based upon  sound
                        principlesone that offers a supply in direct answer to a demand. I shall probably decide to take
                        a little of that stock, if I can get some other securities to go with it. But for a part of the
                        money I have to invest, I must get stock in some already established and assured businessI
                        should especially like bank stock, either in your bank or Captain Hallam"s. You
                        see"
                    "Oh, yes, I see. You want a nest-egg that will certainly hatch out a
                        chicken. I"ll find it for you. Let"s leave that till to-morrow. Anyhow,
                        I"m an advocate of local investments. I"m putting every spare dollar
                        I"ve got into them, and I always advise investors to go into them. We"re
                        planningHallam and Ito set up a gas plant here. The city needs it, and it"ll pay from
                        the word go. I"ll tell you about that tomorrow. You see, I want you to know just what
                        we"re doing and planning, and then we"ll find the best places for you to put
                        your money into. It"s getting late now, so we"ll drive back to the bank. I
                        told the cashier to wait for us, though of course it"s after banking hours."
                    On their return to the bank each of these men felt that he had "put in a
                        good day"s work." Tandy was sure that by letting the young man have a few
                        shares in firmly established enterprises, he could "rope him in," as he
                        phrased it in his mind, for the purchase of some more doubtful things. Temple, in his turn, was
                        convinced that by buying into some of Tandy"s  more speculative enterprises, he could ultimately secure the shares he had been set to buy in
                        the X National.
                    The telegraphic reply from the New York Bank had been received and was altogether
                        satisfactory. So, late as it was, Temple drew on New York for twelve thousand dollars, and with
                        the draft, opened a deposit account for that amount in Tandy"s bank.
                    Then he went to his hotel. His first impulse was to send a message to Captain Will
                        Hallam, asking whether he might take the barrel-factory stock, and perhaps some other things of
                        like kind, in aid of success in his mission, but upon reflection he decided to act upon his own
                        judgment, without consultation or advice. Hallam had given him a free hand, leaving him to work
                        out the problem in his own way. Any communication between him and Hallam, or between him and
                        Duncan, would involve something of risk. So he sat alone in his hotel room, thinking and
                        planning.
                    He did not know or dream how anxious Tandy was to draw him into some of his schemes.
                        He did not know that both the barrel factory and the gas enterprise had recently become
                        veritable white elephants on Tandy"s hands. He did not know that Tandyin his eagerness
                        to overreach Hallamhad "stretched himself out like a string," as Hallam
                        picturesquely put itby investing more money in these two companies, and several others, than he
                        could just then  spare. Especially, he did not know
                        that Hallam had himself completely organized and capitalized both a gas company and a barrel
                        company, and that Tandy"s two companies represented an unsuccessful attempt to rival
                        enterprises into which Hallam had "breathed the breath of life."
                    He was surprised, therefore, when a bell boy brought him Tandy"s card, as he
                        sat there in his lonely hotel room, planning the morrow s campaign.
                    "I thought you might be lonely," said the banker, as he was ushered
                        into the room, "seeing that you"re a stranger in town. So I have dropped in
                        for a chat."
                    The "chat" very quickly fell into financial channels, and it did
                        not proceed far before shrewd Richard Temple discovered some things of advantage to himself.
                        Among the things discovered was the fact that Tandy was somewhat over anxious to hasten the
                        business in hand. Apparently he feared that Temple might fall in with other advisers. He seemed
                        anxious to arrive at conclusions in a hurry, Temple thought, and the thought served at once to
                        put him on his guard and to give him his opportunity. He listened with every indication of
                        interest to all that Tandy had to say concerning the two still unlaunched enterprisesthe barrel
                        factory and the gas company. He asked interested questions concerning them, and ventured the
                        suggestion that the proposed capitalization of the gas company was too small to admit of the
                        best results.
                    
                    "As an engineer," he said, "I know something of the cost
                        of digging trenches and laying mains, and it seems to me that in order to equip itself for
                        business this company will need a good deal more money than you plan to put into it as capital
                        stock."
                    "I see your point," Tandy answered quickly, "and in any
                        ordinary case it would be sound enough, though of course a company of that kind doesn"t
                        depend upon its subscribed capital alone, or even chiefly for its working capital. It is the
                        practice in establishing such companies to issue and sell bonds enough to cover the cost of the
                        plant, or very nearly that. The profits are so certain and so great that the bondseven at so low
                        a figure as live per cent, interestgo off like hot cakes. But that isn"t all. Here in
                        Cairo we shall hardly have to bond the company at all. You see we shall have almost no
                        engineering work to do. In other cities a gas company must dig deep trenchesoften through solid
                        rockin which to lay its hams. Here in Cairo we shall have no digging at all to do. You observed,
                        as we drove to-day, that the city Is built upon a tongue of very low-lying ground. A levee,
                        forty-five feet high, has been built around it, and contractors are now busily filling in the
                        streets so as to raise them nearly, though not quite, to the grade of the levee. Every street is
                        a long embankment. Now, when we come to lay our mains, we shall put them along the sides of
                        these embankments, with no cost at all for digging."
                    
                    So Tandy went on for an hour. At the end of that time Temple felt himself
                        sufficiently sure of his ground to venture a little further:
                    "I am inclined to think," he said, "that I shall want to
                        take at least a little of the barrel-factory stock to-morrow, and possibly I may subscribe for
                        some of the gas stock also; of that I am not yet sure. But before I take either, I must invest
                        four or five thousand dollars in something absolutely secure. I have been going over the latest
                        reports of your bank, and the other oneHallam"sand they have impressed me with the
                        conviction that the very best and safest investment a man of small means, like myself, can make
                        in this town, is in bank stock. This city is a point at which so many lines of travel and
                        traffic converge, that the exchange business itself must be sufficient to pay a bank"s
                        expenses. In fact it pays more, as the reports show. And then there is the larger
                        businesslending money on sound enterprises, financing industrial companies, and especially
                        advancing money on bills of lading for goods in transit. In view of all this it surprises me to
                        learn that the stock in the two banks here stands only a trifle above par."
                    "Oh, that"s because of two things. People here have got it into
                        their heads that anything less than ten or twelve per cent., as a return for money invested, is
                        ridiculously small. So they don"t want bank stocks. On the other hand, the eastern
                        capitalists have got it into their heads that anything which pays more  than four or five per cent, must be risky, and so they don"t
                        set up banks here, as they surely would do but for their foolish timidity. The prospect of a big
                        return for their money simply scares them out of their seven senses. So Hallam"s bank
                        and mine have a monopoly of as pretty a business as you"ll find in a day"s
                        walk. Why, when the rush was on last winter, and twenty steamboats a day were leaving Cairo with
                        full cargoesto say nothing of great fleets of grain bargesHallam and I both went to New York
                        with our pockets full of government bonds, and borrowed money on them for sixty or ninety days.
                        We paid six per cent, per annum for the money, and got from one-half to one per cent, a day on
                        most of it by advancing on grain drafts, with bills of lading attached. It was as easy as
                        falling off a log, and as safe as insuring pig-iron under water."
                    "I have some notion of all that," answered Temple," and
                        that"s the sort of investment I"m looking for. I might take in some more
                        speculative things, but I greatly want to invest a few thousand dollars in the stock of one or
                        other of these two national banks. Could you find somebody willing to sell?"
                    Tandy had expected this, and had prepared himself for it. But he pretended to think
                        for a moment before replying. Then he said:
                    "As to Hallam"s bank, it"s useless to try. Hallam and
                        Stafford own the whole thing, except that they have put a share or two into the hands of members
                        of  their own families, just by way of qualifying
                        them to serve as directors, as the law requires. Neither one of them would sell a share for
                        twice its market price. The same thing is true, in a general way at least, of our bank. The
                        stock is so good a thing that nobody who has got any of it ever wants to part with it. But it
                        has always been our policy to interest the people in the bank by letting them hold some of its
                        stock. So a good deal of it is held in small lots around town, and now and then one of these is
                        put into my hands for sale. I have four shares now to sell. It belongs to a tug captain who is
                        down on his luck just now, and must sell. He wants more than the market price, but the bank has
                        lent him money on it nearly up to its face value, and so I can do pretty much as I please with
                        it. Ordinarily I should buy it myself, but I"m in so many things just now, and besides,
                        I"d like to have you with us."
                    Tandy did not say that since he had seen Temple in the afternoon, ho had taken in
                        these four shares of stock for debt, at three per cent, below par, with the fixed purpose of
                        selling them to Temple at three per cent, above par.
                    How many shares did you say there are of it?" asked Temple.
                    "Four, if I remember right. I really oughtn"t to let it slip
                        through my fingers, butwell, I"ll tell you what I"ll doif you care to
                        subscribe for a few shares of the barrel companysay one or two thousand  dollars" worthI"ll let you have the bank stock at a
                        hundred and three.
                    Temple was eager to close the bargain, but he resolutely repressed his eagerness. He
                        asked a score of questions, as if in doubt, and at last he hesitatingly agreed to make the
                        purchase. The details were to be arranged on the next day, and so Tandy took his leave, and
                        Temple lay awake all night, as he had done on the night before.
                    At four o"clock the next afternoon Temple strolled into the Hallam office to
                        report results. He threw the papers upon a desk and sank into a chair like one exhausted. He was
                        in fact almost in a state of collapse. He had not been conscious of strain at any time during
                        his negotiations. He had, indeed, rather enjoyed the playing of such a game of wits with so wily
                        an adversary as Tandy was. But all the while his anxiety to succeed in what he had undertaken
                        had kept his nerves so tense that his mind had known no rest. All the time he had been painfully
                        conscious that the smallest slip on his part, the smallest indiscretion, the slightest mistake
                        in look, or tone, or act, would bring failure as a consequence. And he had all the time been
                        agonizingly conscious of the fact that no less a thing than Guilford Duncan"s
                        reputation was the stake he played forthat Guilford Duncan"s entire future was in his
                        hands. There were reasons more vital to him than his friendship for Duncan, for regarding
                        success in this matter as an end  that must be
                        achieved at all hazards, and at all costs. For years ago these two had quarreled as rivals in
                        love, after being friends of the closest sort from infancy, and only Duncan"s great
                        generosity of mind had made forgiveness and reconciliation possible. Dick. Temple knew that in
                        the matter out of which the quarrel grew, he had grievously wronged his friend, and that
                        knowledge had been to him a veritable thorn in the flesh, robbing even such happiness as had
                        come to him of half its quality of joy. He had longed above all other things for an opportunity
                        to make atonement, and that longing had been intensified since the meeting at the mine, by the
                        generous treatment he had received at Duncan"s hands. His Mary shared it in full
                        measure, too, as she shared every worthy impulse of his soul. It had been a grief to the gently
                        generous wife that the man she loved must live always under so distressing an obligation to the
                        friend who had so magnanimously forgiven.
                    When this opportunity of repayment came to him, therefore, his first thought was of
                        Mary. He wrote to her immediately after his first conference with Hallam, telling her of the
                        matter in a way that filled her soul with gladness and feargladness that the opportunity was his
                        at last, and sleepless fear lest he should be baffled and beaten. So when at last success was
                        his, when he received from Tandy"s hands the papers that secured his purpose, his first
                        act was to telegraph to Mary the message:
                    
                    Glory to God in the highest! I have paid my debt to Guilford Duncan.
                    It was five minutes later when he entered the Hallam offices and laid the papers
                        before the head of the house, saying only:
                    "I"ve secured the stock." When he sank into the chair,
                        Hallam was quick to see his condition.
                    "Go up to Duncan"s rooms and go to bed," he urged.
                        "you"ve not been sleeping."
                    Recovering himself quickly, Temple answered:
                    " No, I think I"d rather not. If you"ve no further use for
                        me, I think I"ll go home by the train that starts an hour hence. There"ll be
                        time enough between now and then for me to reader you and account of money spent, and give you
                        my check for the balance in Tandy"s bank. I don"t want to sec Duncan just
                        now."
                    Hallam understood. "Very well," he answered, as Temple turned to a
                        desk. " You"ve saved Duncan, and there"s nothing more for you to do
                        here. But you must come back for the final grand tableau just a week hence. I"ll leave
                        this stock in your name till then, and you shall walk with me into the stockholders"
                        meeting and help me salivate old Napper Tandy. We"ll teach him not to play
                        tricks."
                    Captain Hallam spoke no word of commendation for the way in which Temple had done his
                        work. Words were unnecessary.
                    I hope I made no mistake in subscribing for that  barrel company stock," said Temple as he passed the completed papers
                        over to Hallam. "At any rate, I"d like to keep that myself, if I may, whether
                        it ever proves to be worth anything or not. I"ve accumulated enough money to pay for
                        it."
                    "Oh, as to that," answered Hallam lightly, "the stock will
                        be good enough. I"ll make it so by taking a majority interest in the company and
                        consolidating it with my own. You see, we simply must do something for Old Napper
                        Tandy."
                
                
                
                    XXVI
                    A PACT WITH BARBARA
                    
                    THAT evening Guilford Duncan was summoned to Hallam"s house for supper. With
                        only Mrs. Hallam for auditor, Hallam wished to tell the young man all that had occurred, for
                        Duncan had not been permitted to know aught of it, since Hallam had turned him out of his room,
                        in order that the conference with Dick Temple might be a strictly private one.
                    Nor had Duncan seemed very greatly concerned to inquire. He had not expected Hallam
                        and Temple to succeed in accomplishing anything, and at this time his fate was at crisis in
                        another and, to him, a dearer way. His interview with Barbara had been held, as we know, at the
                        precise time when Hallam and Temple were in consultation with regard to the matter of
                        Tandy"s accusation. In some degree, at least, the painful character of that interview
                        with Barbara, and its unsatisfactory result, had dulled his mind to the other trouble. In view
                        of Barbara"s seemingly final rejection of his wooing, he was not sure that he greatly
                        cared what might become of his  reputation, or his
                        career. He was too strong a man in his moral character, however, to remain long in a state of
                        such indifference, but for the time being he found it impossible to regard his future as matter
                        matter of much consequence, now that Barbara refused to share that future with him.
                    "There is still one more chance," he reflected, "one more
                        interview with Barbara, one more hope that I may win her. If that fails, the other thing
                        won"t matter much. I"ll horsewhip Tandy and then go away. No, I won t go away.
                        I won"t desert in the presence of the enemy. I won"toh, I don"t know
                        what I will or won"t do. All that must wait till I know my fate with Barbara."
                    This was on the morning after his evening with Barbarathe morning on which Temple
                        first made acquaintance with Tandy. Duncan was sitting idly in his office, mechanically toying
                        with a paper cutter. Presently he overturned the inkstand, spilling its contents over some legal
                        papers that he had drawn upon the day before.
                    "That"s fortunate!" he ejaculated, as with blotting pads
                        he sought to save what he could of the documents. "It gives me something better to do
                        than sit here idly mooning. Those papers must go off by the afternoon mail, and I must rewrite
                        them first."
                    He set to work at once, and close application to the task for several hours brought
                        him into a healthier condition of mind. When he had finished the task  and had taken the papers to the postoffice he realized that his state
                        of mind had been a morbid one. He realized, too, that he must end the suspense as quickly as
                        possible, in order that he might take up work and grow sound of soul again.
                    Returning to his office he sent a note to Barbara:
                    I shall go to see you to-night, unless you forbid. I must heap what more you have to
                        tell me, and I must in my turn tell you something of myself. When that is done, I shall renew my
                        efforts to win you to myself. Please send me word that I may come.
                    For answer, he got the single word "Come," written in the middle of
                        a page, without address or signature. Thus it came about that while Temple was sitting in his
                        hotel room, in negotiation with Tandy over a matter that involved Duncan"s future more
                        vitally than any other event had ever done, Duncan himself sat with Barbara, trying to adjust
                        another matter which, seemed to him of even greater consequence.
                    Barbara had her emotions in leash, now. Without hesitation, and with a bravely
                        controlled utterance, she went at once to the marrow of the matter.
                    "I told you," she began, "that I am the daughter of a
                        Thief. My father was trusted absolutely by my grandfather. He betrayed the trust. He made use of
                        his authority as a member of the banking house, not only to wreck it in speculation, but also to
                        rob all the people who had entrusted their money to it. I  don"t understand such matters very well, but, at any rate, my father
                        ruined the firm and robbed its customers. At a single stroke he reduced his father to poverty
                        and forever disgraced his honorable name. When he found that the facts must become known at
                        once, my father went home and blew his brains out. I was born that day, and my mother died of
                        shock and grief within the hour. My poor grandfather lived for a month, without speaking a word
                        to anybody. Then he quit living."
                    "It is a terribly sad story," said Duncan. "I should not
                        have let you tell it, poor child."
                    "Oh, but I was obliged to tell you," she interrupted."
                    It was my duty. You seewell, you have been so good to me, and I am obliged to say
                        "no" to what you asked me before you knew this horrible thing. It
                        wouldn"t have been fair just to say "no," and not tell you of a thing
                        that explains, a thing that must make you wish you hadn"t asked me that."
                    "But it does not make me wish anything of the kind, Barbara. It makes me
                        more eager than ever to win you, in order that I may devote my life to the loving task of making
                        you forget the horror of this thing. Oh, Barbara! I never loved you half so madly as I love you
                        know. And you love me. I know it, but you must say it. You love me, Barbara! Say it! Say
                        itnow!"
                    The girl hesitated for no more than a moment, while her whole body quivered.
                    
                    "God help me I" she said then, "I do love you! I love you
                        too well to let you link your life with mine, to let you take upon yourself the shadow of my
                        disgrace."
                    "But you have no disgrace. You are innocent. The fault is not yours that
                        your father betrayed his trust a score of years agobefore you were born."
                    "Listen!" she interrupted with passionate determination.
                        "If you were to marry me I should become the mother of your children. That would make
                        them the grandchildren of a Thief."
                    The two were standing now.
                    "I want you to sit down while I answer you, Barbara," said Duncan,
                        with almost unimaginable tenderness in his tone. "No, not in that straight-backed
                        chair, for I want you to listen to all I have to say, and to be at ease while you listen. Sit
                        here," pushing an easy chair forward, "sit here where you can see my face as I
                        speak. I want you to see in my eyes the sincerity of my soul."
                    Barbara obeyed and listened.
                    "I was born and brought up," he said, "in a region where
                        all the old traditions had full sway over the minds of men and women, enslaving them. During
                        four years of war I learned much, but I unlearned far more. I learned to look facts in the face,
                        and to accept them at their just value. I learned to judge of others and of their worth by what
                        they are, not by what their fathers or grandfathers may have been.  I unlearned the false teaching of tradition that aught else than personal
                        character and personal conduct goes to the making up of any human being"s account with
                        his fellow man. I had a true democracy forced upon me when I saw men of the humblest extraction
                        winning high place for themselves, and being set to command men of the loftiest lineageall
                        because of personal character and fitness, and in spite of their lack, of caste. No sane man can
                        contemplate the character and career of Mr. Lincoln, for example, without finding in it an
                        object lesson in democracy which should make a very laughing-stock of all the fables of
                        aristocratic tradition. I tell you truly that I have put all those things behind me, as all
                        Americans must who truly believe in the fundamental principles of our Republic. Every man must
                        be accepted for what he is, not for what his father or his grandfather may have been. We read
                        that lesson in the lives of such men as Ben Franklin, and Abraham Lincoln, and Grant, and a
                        score of other notables. We read it even more clearly in everyday life. No banker extends credit
                        to a worthless man on the ground that he was born to high social repute. No banker withholds
                        credit from a man of integrity because his father was not to be trusted. All day, every day, men
                        everywhere are acting upon a clear perception of the truth that each human being must be judged
                        by what he is, and not by what some other person has been.
                    
                    "Now I know you, Barbara, for what you are,
                        and I love you for that alone. What your father may have done or been, twenty years ago, is to
                        me a matter of entire indifference, except that the knowledge of it gives you pain and sorrow.
                        It makes no difference to me; it in no way alters or lessens my love for you, and it never will.
                        Knowing it all, I am more earnest than ever in my purpose to make you my wife if I can persuade
                        you to that after I have told you something about myself that may very justly seem to you a real
                        bar to my hopes."
                    "Go on, please," said the girl. "Tell me what you wil, but
                        I shall never believe anything ill of you. I know
                        better."
                    "Thank you for saying that, dear," he responded with a tremor in
                        his tone. "But unhappily other may believe it. If they do, then the career you have
                        expected for me must be at an end at once. My reputation for integrity will be gone for good,
                        and I must be content to surrender all my ambition. That is why I must tell you of this ugly
                        thing before again asking you to be my wife."
                    "Go on," she said again. "But I shall believe nothing bad
                        of you, even though an angel should tell me."
                    "I told you the other night," he said, "that I had
                        quarreled with Napper Tandy; that he had tried to tempt me with a money bribe to do an infamous
                        thing. He now gives it out that it was I who proposed  the bribe; that I went to him with an offer to do that infamous thing for hire, and that he
                        indignantly rejected the offer."
                    "He lies!" broke in the girl.
                    "Yes, he lies, of course," answered Duncan, "but I have no
                        way of proving it. He and I were alone and in his house. There were no witnesses. How, then, am
                        I ever to clear my name of so foul an accusation?"
                    "There is no need," answered the girl. "Nobody who knows
                        you will ever believe the story. Captain Hallam would not think it worth asking a question
                        about."
                    "No, Captain Hallam would not for a moment think of such a thing as even
                        possible. But that is because he knows me as few other men do or ever will. But the accusation
                        troubles him, because he knows that other people will believe it. He and Richard Temple are at
                        this moment busy trying to find some way of clearing my name of the foul slander. They will do
                        all that two loyal and sagacious friends can do to accomplish that purpose. But I cannot imagine
                        any way in which they can succeed."
                    "What is it they are doing?"
                    "I do not know; they have refused to tell me. I only know that they can
                        never succeed."
                    "Oh, you must not think that. You don"t know what wonders Captain
                        Hallam can work when he is in earnest. You must have hope and confidence.  Besides, nobody who knows you will ever believe such a story as that.
                        Your enemies will pretend to believe it, and for a time the people who love to gossip will
                        repeat it to each other. But you will live it down. Every act of your life will contradict the
                        lie, and Tandy"s reputation is not of a kind to lead sensible people to believe his
                        falsehood when you have set the truth against it. You are depressed and despondent now. The mood
                        is unworthy of you."
                    "Tell me what I should do."
                    "First of all you should act like the brave, strong man that you are. You
                        should either take this slander by the throat and strangle it by publishing a simple, direct
                        statement of the facts, or you should ignore it altogether, as a thing too absurd to need even a
                        denial. Wait till you see what Captain Hallam and Mr. Temple succeed in doing, and then act as
                        seems best. But in any case, you must be strong and courageous. No other mood belongs to such a
                        man as you."
                    Duncan looked her full in the face for a space before speaking. Then he said:
                    "And yet you say you have no gift to help methat if you were my wife you
                        would be a drag upon me! Oh, Barbara, you cannot know how greatly I need the strength that the
                        sympathy and counsel of such a woman as you are must give to the man who loves and wins her. You
                        have in this hour rescued me from despondency; you have made me strong again;  you have shown me my duty, and inspired me with
                        resolution to do it manfully."
                    "I am very glad," she answered.
                    "Then promise me that you will stand by my side always. Let me give you the
                        right to help. Say that you will be my wife!"
                    His voice was full of tender pleading and for a moment the girl hesitated. Finally
                        she said:
                    "I think I know how to answer now, but you mustn"t interrupt. I
                        feel as though I couldn"t stand much this evening.
                    "I will not interrupt. I am too eager to hear."
                    "I think I have a planfor you and me. I still think what I thought
                        beforewhen I said "no." I still think you ought to have some better woman for
                        your wife, some woman more nearly your equal, some woman who could help you to win a great place
                        for yourself in the world and could herself fill the place of a great man"s wife with
                        dignity. You ought to marry a woman who knows, oh, ever so much that I shall never knowa woman
                        that you need never be ashamed to introduce as your wife. No, don"t
                        interrupt!" she exclaimed, seeing that he was on the point of doing so. "I
                        know what you would say, and that is the only thing that makes me doubt my own conviction about
                        these matters. It seems to me a wonderful thing that such a man as you should care for such a
                        woman as I am, but the fact that you do care for me almost makes me think sometimes that maybe
                             after all I misjudge myself, and that you are
                        right. It seems so hard to believe you wrong. Now, I must be perfectly frank, because I know no
                        other way of saying what I must. I have confessed that I love my you. You compelled me to do
                        that. If I were sure of capacity to make you happy, not just for a little while, but throughout
                        all your life, I would say "yes" to the questions you have asked. But I
                        mustn"t make any mistake that might spoil your life, and so I must not say
                        "yes" just now, at least, and you will not let me say "no."
                        I am still very young, as you know. You, too, are young enough to wait. So I think
                        we"ll leave both the "yes" and the "no" unsaid for
                        a long time to comefor a year, perhapslong enough, at any rate, for both of us to find out which
                        of us is right. During that time we must be the very best of friends. You must tell me
                        everything that concerns you, so that I may practice helping you, and find out whether I can
                        really do it or not. If you find that I can"t you shall be perfectly free to go away
                        from me. If I find that I can"t, then I"ll say "no" and
                        stick to it."
                    Duncan was disposed to plead for better terms, but the little lady had fully made up
                        her mind and would accept no modification of the treaty. Duncan had no choice but to accept an
                        arrangement which, after all, had much of joy and still more of promise in it.
                    As they were on the point of parting, Barbara  with something like a strugglemade an addition to the compact.
                    "If that slander sticks to you, Guilford, I"ll marry you at once
                        and give it the lie."
                    What could the warm-blooded young man do but kiss her with fervor?
                    "Surely you will forgive me," he began in fear, lest he had
                        offended.
                    "I don"t mindfor once. But you mustn"t do that again
                        tillwell, while we continue to be just friends."
                
                
                
                    XXVII
                    MRS. HALLAM HEAKS NEWS
                    
                    As Guilford Duncan sat late that night, recalling the events of the evening, he felt
                        himself more and more nearly satisfied with the outcome of his wooing. It was true, of course,
                        that Barbara had not promised to become his wife, as he had hoped that she might do, but at any
                        rate she had confessed her love for him in a way that left nothing to conjecture. With such a
                        woman, he reflected, love is never lightly given, and once given it can never be withdrawn.
                    Moreover, as he reflected upon the compact, he saw how certainly the close and
                        intimate friendship for which it provided must daily and hourly draw the two lovers closer and
                        closer together, making each of them more and more necessary to the other. In brief, there was
                        so much that was satisfactory in the compact that he put aside all the rest as "not
                        worth worrying over."
                    As he realized the extent of his success in his wooing he planned to perfect it in a
                        hundred ways. He  resolved to make every possible
                        opportunity for Barbara to help him in order that she might learn how helpful she could be. He
                        determined to acquaint her with all his affairs, in the utmost detail, in order that she might
                        make herself more and more a part of his life. His first thought was that he would withhold from
                        her knowledge everything that annoyed or distressed him, thus sparing her all that he could of
                        pain, while telling her freely of every joyous thing. But he quickly saw how unfair that would
                        be, and how unlike what such a woman would desire. He had begun to catch something of
                        Barbara"s own spirit, and to know that any reserves with her now would be a cruel wrong
                        to her loving desire for a helpful share in his life.
                    "I will be as frank with her," he resolved, "as if she
                        were already my wife. She shall share my sorrows as well as my joys. And what a comfort her
                        sympathy will be!"
                    He slept little that night, yet on the morrow he went to his work with a buoyancy of
                        spirit such, as he had not known since that evening when he had first declared his love.
                    It was in this mood of elation and hopefulness that he went to the Hallams"
                        an hour before the supper time. He did not yet know what Hallam and Temple had been trying to
                        do, and of course he knew nothing of the success they had achieved. But in his present mood he
                        was optimistic enough to hope for some good  result.
                        He thought he might meet Temple at supper if his work, whatever it was, had been finished, and
                        when he found that his friend was neither present nor expected, Be satisfied himself with the
                        reflection that the task Temple had undertaken was very probably one requiring a good deal more
                        time than had elapsed since he began it. A little later he got more definite information.
                    "Temple isn"t to be with us," he half said, half asked,
                        after the greetings were over.
                    "No," answered Captain Will. "He has gone back to the
                        mines. He is rather done up with the work and anxiety and loss of sleep. I tried to make him
                        take possession of your rooms this afternoon, for a straight-away sleep, but he thought
                        he"d rather go back to his wife till the tenth. He"ll be here, however, in
                        time to assist at the grand finale, as the show people call
                        it."
                    "I"m afraid I don"t understand," said Duncan with
                        a look of inquiry.
                    "Why, there"s to be a meeting of the stockholders of the X National
                        on the tenth, you know."
                    "I didn"t know. But what of it?"
                    "Why, only that your friend Temple wants to be there, when he and I march
                        into the meeting controlling a majority interest and elect a board of directors for old Napper
                        Tandy, leaving him completely out of it. Not a word about that, however, to anybody, till the
                        time comes. We want to add to  the dramatic effect by
                        making the thing a complete surprise."
                    If Captain Will Hallam had been a robust boy of ten, chewing upon a particularly
                        toothsome morsel, he could not have shown a greater relish for what was in his mouth than he did
                        for these sentences as he uttered them. His manner had all of active satisfaction in it that an
                        eager card player manifests when he saves a doubtful game by throwing down a final and
                        unsuspected trump at the end of a hand that has seemed to be lost.
                    But Duncan was still mystified, and in answer to his questions Captain Hallam
                        explained.
                    "When you got yourself into trouble by monkeying with the accentuations of a
                        buzz saw," he said, "I could see only one way out, and that was to put you
                        into a position where even the disembodied spirit of Calumny itself could not pretend to believe
                        old Napper Tandy"s yarn. You know Tandy is fond of playing tricks, especially upon me,
                        and as the president and controlling spirit of a rather strong bank, he has been able to give me
                        a good deal of trouble now and then. A year ago Stafford and I decided that it might some day be
                        handy for us to control a majority of the stock in Tandy"s bank. There was a good deal
                        of it lying about loosethat is to say, a number of people held little blocks of it, ranging from
                        one share to five. All of these people were more or less under Tandy"s influence, and
                        all of them were  in the habit of giving him proxies
                        to vote their stock or else themselves going into the stockholders" meeting and voting
                        as he desired. Stafford and I quietly set about buying up this loose stockthrough other people,
                        of course, so that we shouldn"t appear in the matter. We had got forty-eight per cent,
                        of it, when you got yourself into trouble with Tandy. It occurred to me that if we could get
                        three or four more shares and emphasize our confidence in you by making you president of
                        Tandy"s own bank, and turning him out to grass, he might see the point and stop his
                        lies. I flatter myself that Stafford and I are pretty well known all over the West and among
                        bankers in the East. We are not at all generally regarded as a pair of sublimated idiotswhich
                        same we should certainly be if we deliberately made a bank president out of a young man whose
                        integrity was open to any possibility of suspicion. Now, don"t be in a hurry!"
                        seeing that Duncan was eager to ask questions, or to express his appreciation of Captain
                        Hallam"s interest in himself "don"t be in a hurry and don t
                        interrupt. Let me tell you the whole story. At first I didn"t see any possible way in
                        which to secure the three shares, without which I could do nothing. I took pains to have the
                        stock register of the bank examined. I found that Tandy himself and the members of his immediate
                        family owned forty-eight shares, and that four more belonged to Kennedy, the tug captain whom
                        you discharged after calling him by a  picturesque
                        variety of pet names. Of course it was of no use to approach Kennedy, even through an outsider,
                        as he is in Tandy"s employ now, and very deeply in Tandy"s debt. I must
                        explain that, as Stafford and I had bought stock through agents of our own, we had kept our
                        hands concealed by leaving the several shares nominally in the hands of the men we had employed
                        to buy them and instructing those men to go on voting the stock in whatever way Tandy wished.
                        This made Tandy feel perfectly secure of his control of the bank. Even if he had sold out half
                        his own interest he would have felt secure, seeing that all the floating stock was within his
                        voting control. You sec I"m a rather good-natured man, on the whole, and I never like
                        to make a man feel uncomfortable unless I must. When your trouble arose I thought I saw that
                        there was nothing for it but to make a strike for some of Tandy"s own stock. I
                        didn"t much believe the thing could be done, but I"ve seen so many miracles
                        worked in my time that I believe in them. You sent for Templeand by the way, he"s a
                        fellow that"s built from the ground upand I set him at work. I told him what we wanted
                        done and why, but I couldn"t tell him how to do it, because I didn"t know. I
                        gave him a free hand, and left him to use his own wits. As they happened to be particularly good
                        wits, he did the trick within less than two days. He managed to buy Kennedy"s four
                        shares, not from Kennedy, but from Tandy himself.  so
                        that now when the stockholders" meeting comes, I"ll march in, representing the
                        two shares that I"m known to own, and Temple will be with me, holding proxies for all
                        the rest of mine and Stafford"s stock. We"ll vote fifty-two against
                        forty-eight. We"ll name all the directors, and they will make you president at once.
                        I"ll put some shares in your hands to qualify you, but you ought actually to own at
                        least ten shares in your own right. Have you got any money loose?"
                    Captain Hallam knew very well that Duncan had a sufficient deposit balance in the
                        Hallam bank to cover the suggested purchase, but he wanted to forestall and prevent the
                        expression of Duncan"s thanks. Hence his question, and hence, also, the look he cast in
                        Mrs. Hallam"s direction, in obedience to which that gracious and sagacious gentlewoman
                        broke at once and insistently into the conversation.
                    "Now, if you two men have quite finished with business," she said,
                        "I want a small share of attention on my own part."
                    "Will you excuse me for a little while, Duncan," interrupted
                        Captain Will, "while I give some orders at the stables and in the garden? I very nearly
                        forgot them. Mrs. Hallam will entertain you in my absence, I"m sure."
                    As soon as the head of the house had made his escape through the door, Mrs.
                        Hallamwhose friend-ship for Duncan had won all that is possible of privilege for itselfturned to
                        him and asked:
                    
                    "Why haven"t you been taking Barbara to places? Why didn"t
                        you tell me to invite her here for supper to-night? You know I have had her here a dozen times,
                        and you know now welcome she always is."
                    "Your last question is easily answered," he replied. "I
                        did not think of asking you to invite her to supper this evening for the reason that Captain
                        Will sent me word that he had business affairs to talk over with me."
                    Mrs. Hallam"s face was wreathed in smiles.
                    "I wonder," she said, "if there ever was a young man
                        clever enough to hold his own with a woman at word fence. And I wonder if there was ever one who
                        didn"t think he could."
                    "I confess," he said quickly, "that I"m not
                        clever enough to know what you mean by those two wonderings of yours."
                    "Oh, yes you do. You deliberately tried to shy off my first
                        question" at this point she touched a bell "by answering the second first, and
                        then omitting to answer the first at all."
                    At this moment a servant appeared in answer to her ring.
                    "Send word to John," she commanded, "to bring the carriage
                        at oncethe open one with the bays. Now, Guilford Duncan, I have no time to talk with you except
                        the ten minutes before the carriage comes. For I"m going to put on a hat and go after
                        Barbara. Perhaps, between us, she and I can prevent you  two men from talking business at supper. Tell me"
                    "But can Barbara come on so short a notice?"
                    "What sort of blunderer do you take me to be? I sent her a note two hours
                        ago saying I should go after her, and she sent me for reply, a note saying she would be more
                        than glad to come. But you mustn"t grow conceited over that. I didn"t tell her
                        you were to be here, or that I meant to put you into the carriage to escort her home. It is
                        quite possible that if I had told her that she would have declined the invitation. Now, answer
                        my first question. Why haven"t you been taking Barbara to placesto church and all the
                        rest of it?"
                    "Must I tell you the truth?"
                    "Yes, certainly. What would be the use of telling me anything else? I should
                        know if your fibbed."
                    "I really believe you would."
                    "Why, of course I should. What are a woman"s wits for,
                        anyhow?"
                    "The carnage is at the door," said a servant, entering.
                    "Very well. Let it wait. Now, Guilford Duncan, go on and tell me."
                    "Well, the fact is, that I have not been in a position to ask Barbara to
                        accept my escort to public places."
                    "Why not? Is it because of this Tandy affair?"
                    " No."
                    
                    "Then what? Go on, and don"t make me pump the information out of
                        you, as if you were a well or a leaky barge."
                    "The fact is," Duncan spoke very seriously now, "that a
                        little while ago I was betrayed by own emotions into declaring my love for Barbara, much sooner
                        than I had intendedbefore she was prepared to hear it."
                    "Oh, nonsense! As if a girl ever needed preparation for a declaration of
                        that sort fromwell, from the right sort of man. But go on, you know the carriage is waiting.
                        Tell me. Has she accepted you?"
                    "No."
                    "Has she rejected you?"
                    "No."
                    Here Mrs. Duncan again rang the bell, and a servant appeared so promptly as to
                        suggest that she had been listening just outside the door.
                    "Tell my maid to get into the carriage and go and fetch Miss Barbara Verne.
                        Tell her to say that I am detained here, and am forced to send my maid in my stead."
                    The servant said " Yes"m, and withdrew. Then Mrs. Duncan resumed
                        her questioning with manifest eagerness, but with as much of seriousness as Duncan himself had
                        shown. There was no touch of flippancy, or even of lightness in either her words or her tone.
                        For Mrs. Will Hallam was a woman of deep and  tender
                        feeling, a woman to whom all holy things were sacred.
                    "Tell me about it all, Guilford. I do not understand, and I must know. I
                        need not tell you that my interest is not prompted by curiosity. I hold you as my brother, and I
                        love Barbara. Tell me."
                    And Duncan did. As he outlined the compact that Barbara had insisted upon, the smiles
                        replaced solemn apprehension on Mrs. Hallam"s face, as though she foresaw all she
                        desired as the outcome of such an arrangement.
                    But all that she said was:
                    "I am greatly relieved."
                
                
                
                    XXVIII
                    THE BIRTH
                        OF
                        A GREAT RAILROAD
                    
                    UPON becoming president of a strong bank, and the close associate of Hallam and
                        Stafford in all their undertakings, Guilford Duncan became at once a factor to be recognized and
                        reckoned with in all enterprises with which he had to do. He had brains, character, and
                        indomitable energy, and these had already won for him the respect of the men of affairs. Now
                        that he had control of money also, his power and influence were multiplied many fold.
                    The time was one of expansion. The flood of irredeemable and heavily depreciated
                        paper currency which had been issued under stress of war necessities, was producing the usual
                        effect of inflation. It gave a false seeming of value to every purchasable thing. It caused
                        rapid and great fluctuations in all markets. It lured men everywhere into speculation. It
                        dangerously expanded credits and prompted men to undertake enterprises far beyond their means.
                    Very early in his career as a banker, Guilford Duncan  discovered that half the merchants in Cairo were young men of little capital
                        and small capacity, who ought to have remained salaried clerks. These had grown ambitious, set
                        up for themselves, and were carrying large stocks of goods almost wholly upon credit. They were
                        staggering under loads of debt on which they were paying ruinous rates of interest.
                    It was easy enough for him to protect his bank by gradually reducing its loans to
                        such men as these, but the prudence thus exercised added to the number of his enemies. He cared
                        little for that, so long as he knew his course to be right.
                    Looking further afield he saw that a like condition of things existed all over the
                        West, and was the inspiration of much greater undertakings than those of the merchants and
                        shopkeepers.
                    He used often to talk of these things with Hallam.
                    "You"re quite right," said that sagacious financier.
                        "The country has gone on a big financial drunk, and of course the headache will come
                        when the spree is over. But it won"t be over for a considerable time to come, and in
                        the meanwhile the country is getting a good deal of benefit from it.
                    "Fortunately, it is taking a better course than such sprees usually do.
                        Ordinarily the existence of an inflated, superabundant, and depreciated currency results in a
                        wild orgy of stock gambling, grain gambling, cotton gambling, and all the rest of it. There  is no more of good in thatthere is far more of harm
                        in it to the countrythan there would be if everybody went to betting at roulette or faro. It
                        makes the lucky gamblers rich and the unlucky ones poor, but it produces nothing, even
                        incidentally. This time the gambling is taking a more productive form. Instead of betting on
                        market fluctuations, men are putting money into factories, mines, mills, and railroadsespecially
                        railroads. They are enormously overdoing the thing, but whenever they build a railroad, even
                        unwisely, the railroad will remain as something to show for the money when the spree is
                        over."
                    "That is true enough," said Duncan, "and of course all
                        this railroad and other building is, incidentally, giving work and wages to great multitudes of
                        men. But are we not paying too high a price for the good we get? We are building debts about
                        forty per cent. faster than we are building railroads. Every mile of track is constructed with
                        borrowed money, worth only about sixty cents on the dollar. Yet every dollar of these borrowings
                        must some day be paid off in gold. And in the meantime the roads must pay a high interest rate
                        on a dollar for every sixty cents" worth of money borrowed. I do not see how the
                        country can stand it."
                    "It can"t, permanently, and you haven"t mentioned the
                        worst feature of the matter."
                    "What is that?"
                    
                    "Why, in the craze for building railroads, men are projecting and building
                        many lines that are not needed at all. In some cases two, or even three, parallel roads are
                        being built through regions that can never support more than one. It is sneer waste, and of
                        course it means collapse sooner or later. But there is another side to the matter. The country
                        is growing enormously in wealth, and still more enormously in productive capacity. Nothing helps
                        such growth like the multiplication and extension of railroads. They bring men near to their
                        markets. They make farming profitable where before it would have been a waste of labor. They
                        multiply farms and towns, swell the population, and in that way make a market for manufactures.
                        If we could cut out the parallel lines and other foolishly projected roads, I firmly believe the
                        growth of the country in consequence of railroad building would more than compensate for the
                        extra cost entailed upon us by borrowing at a time of depreciation in the currency. But we
                        can"t prevent fool projectors from building foolishly, and some day the country s sound
                        business must shoulder all that load of bad investments. When a boy eats green apples he is in
                        for a colic, but he generally gets over the colic. If will be so with the country."
                    Then the talk turned into a more practical channel.
                    "You feel sure, then," asked Duncan, "that we are making
                        no mistake and doing no harm in carrying  out our
                        project of a railroad that shall bring Cairo closer to New York in the matter of railroad
                        mileage?"
                    "Perfectly sure. That railroad is imperatively needed. It will develop a
                        very rich agricultural region which has been practically shut off from the world. There is
                        traffic enough for the road already within sight to make it pay. When it is built, it will
                        compel a cheapening of freight rates to the advantage of the whole country."
                    "You are right, of course," answered Duncan reflectively.
                        "I have gone over that subject very conscientiously. I am convinced that the road can
                        carry the debt that must be incurred in building it, and that it will pay its way. If I had any
                        serious doubt of that, I should have nothing to do with the thing."
                    "As it is," responded Hallam, "you"ve got the
                        heavy end of the log to carry, so far as work is concerned. When are you going to begin your
                        campaign?"
                    "Almost immediately. I"ve got everything in the bank into
                        satisfactory shape now, and three days hence I shall begin a speaking tour in the interior
                        counties. I"ll make it even more a talking tour than a speaking one. For while a public
                        speech, if it is persuasive enough, may influence many, it is the quieter talking to individuals
                        and small groups that does most to win votes. I"ve already secured the  co-operation of all the country editors, but they
                        need stirring up, and worse still they need somebody to tell them what to say and how to say it
                        in their news-papers. Of course you and Stafford and Tandy will take care of Cairo and Alexander
                        county."
                    This proposed railroad was one clearly destined to be of the utmost consequence to
                        Cairo and to the region through which the line must run. The method by winch it was planned to
                        secure its construction, was the one then in general use throughout the West. It may be simply
                        explained. Everybody concerned was asked to subscribe to what might properly have been called an
                        inducement fund. The subscriptions were meant to be gifts made to secure the benefit of the
                        railroad"s construction. More important than these personal subscriptions, and vastly
                        greater in amount were the subscriptions of counties, cities, and towns. Under the law as it
                        then existed each county, city, or town, if its people so voted, could "lend its
                        credit" to an enterprise of this kind by issuing its own bonds. "When a
                        sufficient sum was raised in this way, an effort was made, usually in New York, to secure the
                        forming of a construction company. The whole volume of the subscriptions was offered as an
                        inducement to such a construction company to undertake the building of the road. Usually the
                        construction company was to have in addition a considerable share of the stock of the road when
                        completed. The city, county, and town subscriptions, of course, depended  upon the results of special elections held for that sole purpose.
                    In this case the personal subscriptions had been sstisfactory, and there was no doubt
                        that the two terminal cities, and the counties in which they lay, would vote the bonds asked of
                        them. But there was grave doubt as to results in the rural counties, in each of which a special
                        election was to be held a month or two later. It was Guilford Duncan"s task to remove
                        that doubt, to persuade the voters to favor the proposed subscriptions, and incidentally to
                        secure rights of way, station sites, etc., by gift from the land owners.
                    During the next two months he toiled ceaselessly at this task, going to Cairo only
                        once a week to keep in touch with his bank, and to pass the Sundays with Barbara.
                    Tandy also worked in the county towns, where he had a good deal of influence. He had
                        been made president of the proposed railroad, and was supposed to be very earnestly interested
                        in it. He was soin his own way, and with purposes of his own.
                    Duncan"s campaign was a tireless one, and it proved successful. When the
                        elections occurred every county and every town voted in favor of the proposed subscription, but
                        some of them did so by majorities so narrow as show clearly how great the need of
                        Duncan"s work had been.
                    "Worse still," he said to Hallam, a few weeks  later, "the smallness of the majorities in two or three
                        counties is a threat to us and a warning. The county authorities are putting all sorts of absurd
                        provisions into their subscriptions, and they will give us trouble if our construction company
                        fails in the smallest particular to meet these requirements."
                    "Just what are the conditions?"
                    "Oh, every sort of thing. In every county it is provided that we snail
                        somewhere break ground for construction before the last of Januaryless than two months henceor
                        forfeit the subscription. That gives us too little time for organization, but we can meet that
                        requirement by sending a gang of men at our own expense to do a day"s work somewhere on
                        the line. In two of the counties there is a peculiarly absurd provision. There are rival
                        villages there, one in each county, and the authorities have stipulated that "a track
                        shall be laid across the county line and a car shall pass over said track from one county to the
                        other" before the fifteenth of March. Curiously enough, I learn that Tandy himself
                        suggested that stipulation to the county authorities. I hear he is giving it out that he had to
                        do so to save the election, but that"s nonsense, just as the provision itself is. Such
                        a requirement will greatly embarrass us in our negotiations with capitalists. For the line will
                        not be fully surveyed by that time, and nobody can tell, till that is done, precisely where the
                        road ought to cross that county line, or at what 
                        grade. I can"t imagine what Tandy meant by getting such a provision inserted."
                    "Neither can I," answered Hallam; "but we"ll find
                        out some fine morning, and we must be prepared to meet whatever comes. He"s up to some
                        trick of course."
                
                
                
                    XXIX
                    A SCRAP
                        OF PAPER
                    
                    WHEN Duncan assumed control of the bank as its president, his first care was to
                        acquaint himself minutely with its condition. In general he found its affairs in excellent
                        shape, for Tandy was a skillful banker and, on the whole, a prudent one. There were any small
                        loans to local shopkeepers which Duncan could not approve, and these he called in as they fell
                        due, refusing to renew them. Beyond such matters he found nothing wrong till he came to examine
                        the record of Tandy"s own dealings with the bank.
                    There he found that in carrying on his multifarious enterprises, Tandy had been in
                        the habit of borrowing and using the bank"s funds in ways forbidden by the law of
                        national banking. Had Tandy anticipated his own removal from control he would doubtless have set
                        his account in order so that no complaint could be made. As it was, Duncan found that he was at
                        that very time heavily in debt to the institution for borrowings made in evasion though  possibly not in direct violation of a law carefully
                        framed for the protection of stockholders and depositors.
                    The matter troubled Duncan sorely, and acting upon the resolution he had formed with
                        regard to his relations with Barbara, he told her of it.
                    "I really don"t know what to do," he said in a troubled
                        tone. "Of course the money is perfectly safe. Tandy is good for two or three times the
                        amount. And I learn that it is a practice among bank officers sometimes to stretch their
                        authority and borrow their own bank"s funds in this way."
                    "You say the thing is a violation of the law?" asked Barbara, going
                        straight to the marrow of the matter after her uniform fashion.
                    "In effect, yes. I am not sure that it could be called a positive violation
                        of lawit is so well hedged about with little fictions and pretensesbut it is plainly an evasion,
                        and one which might get the bank into trouble with the authorities at Washington."
                    "You mean that it is something which the law intends to forbid?"
                    "Yes. It is in violation of the spirit of the law."
                    "Then I don"t see why you should have any doubt as to what you
                        ought to do."
                    "It is only that under the circumstances, if I press Tandy and call in these
                        loans, it might look like an unworthy indulgence in spite on my part."
                    "I think you have no right to consider that. You  have taken an oath to obey the law in the conduct of the bank,
                        and"
                    "How did you know that, Barbara?"
                    The girl flushed and hesitated. At last she said:
                    "I"ve been reading the national banking laws."
                    "What in the world did you do that for?"
                    "Why, I"m to help, you know. So as soon as I heard you were to be
                        president of the bank I asked Mrs. Hallam to get Captain Hallam to lend me the books."
                    Duncan smiled and kept silence for a while.
                    "Was that wrong, or very foolish, Guilford? I can really understand the
                        book."
                    "Of course you can, and it was neither wrong nor very foolish in you to try.
                        It was only very loyal and very loving. But there was no occasion for you to do anything of the
                        sort."
                    "But how can I help you if I don"t try my best to understand the
                        things you are dealing with?"
                    "As I said before", he answered tenderly, "it is very
                        loyal and very loving of you to think in that way, and I thank you for it. But that
                        isn"t what I have had in mind when we have talked of your helping me. I have never had
                        a thought of burdening you with my affairs except to ask for your sympathy when things trouble
                        me, and your counsel on all points of right and wrong, and all that. You see, you have two
                        things that I need."
                    "What are they?"
                    
                    "A singularly clear insight into all matters of duty, and a conscience as
                        white as snow. In this matters of Tandy"s account, for example, you have helped me more
                        than you imagine. You have seen my duty clearly, where I was in doubt about it, and you have
                        prompted me to the resolute doing of it, regardless of my own feelings, or Tandy"s, or
                        of any other consideration whatever. Moreover, it is an immeasurable help to me simply to sit in
                        your presence and feel that you want me to do right always. I think association with you would
                        keep any man in the straight road. I know that your love would do
                        so."
                    "I am very, very glad," the girl answered with misty eyes,
                        "but I must help in practical ways, tooin all ways. So I must do my best to understand
                        all the things that you have to manage."
                    "God bless you !"
                    That was all he said. It seemed to him quite all there was to say. But early the next
                        morning he sent a courteous note to Tandy, calling his attention to the
                        "irregularity" of his relations with the bank, and asking him to call at once
                        to set the matter right.
                    After he had sent off the note he continued his examination of the details of the
                        bank"s affairs. He had gone over the books very carefully. He had examined the notes
                        held for collection and the like. It remained only for him to make a personal inspection  of the cash and securities held by the bank, and
                        that was his task this morning.
                    He had not gone far with it when he came upon a small three-cornered slip of paper,
                        with a memorandum penciled upon it. It lay in the midst of a bun-die of greenbacks.
                    Looking at it carefully, Duncan turned sharply upon the teller who had charge of the
                        currency, and demanded:
                    "What does this mean? Why did you not bring that to my attention
                        sooner?"
                    Before the teller could reply with an excuse or explanation, Tandy was announced as
                        waiting in the bank parlor to see Mr. Duncan.
                    Duncan slipped the scrap of paper into his vest pocket, saying to the teller:
                    "Make a memorandum that I have possession of this."
                    Then he walked into the parlor.
                    There he received Tandy with cold dignity and marked reservemore of coldness, more of
                        dignity, and far more of reserve than he would have thought necessary if he had not found that
                        scrap of paper.
                    Before seating himself, he called in one of the bookkeepers, saying:
                    "Mr. Leftwich, I desire you to remain with Mr. Tandy and me, during the
                        whole of our interview."
                    "Surely that is unnecessary, Duncan," said Tandy  hastily. "I don"t care to discuss
                        my private affairs in the presence of a clerk."
                    "I have no intention to discuss your private affairs at all, Mr.
                        Tandy," Duncan replied. "The matter concerning which I have asked you to call
                        here, is not a private affair of yours or mine. It is a matter connected with the administration
                        of the bank. Be seated, Mr. Leftwich."
                    "But I insist," said Tandy, with a good deal more of heat than he
                        was accustomed to permit himself to show, "I insist upon a confidential
                        interview."
                    "You cannot have it. I do not regard myself as upon confidential terms with
                        you, nor do I think of you as a man with whom I desire to establish confidential
                        relations."
                    "Do you mean to insult me in my ownin a bank that I founded, and in which I
                        am still a large stockholder?"
                    "Perhaps you had better not press me to explain myself," answered
                        Duncan with a calmness that emphasized his determination. "I might feel it necessary to
                        mention some facts that otherwise there is no occasion for Mr. Leftwich to know."
                    "Oh, very well. I ought not to have expected courtesy at your
                        hands."
                    "I think I must agree with you in that," answered Duncan.
                        "In view of the circumstanceswhich, I may remind you, are of your own makingI really
                        think you ought not to have expected courtesy at  my
                        hands. Suppose we get down to business instead. What have you to suggest by way of arranging
                        your affairs with the bank?"
                    "I don"t know. I came here hoping and expecting that in view of all
                        the circumstances you might be willing to let this matter of my loans from the bank rest between
                        ourselves for a time."
                    Duncan was outwardly calm now, but inwardly he was in a towering rage, for
                        Tandy"s presence reminded him bitterly of the way in which the ex-banker had tried
                        first to corrupt him and then to blast his reputation with a lie; and Tandy"s manner
                        clearly enough indicated that he had come to the bank in full expectation of warping him to his
                        will in another matter involving his duty and his honor.
                    "How do you mean to "let it rest"?" he asked,
                        carefully controlling his voice.
                    "Oh, you understand, or you would if you knew anything of banking."
                    "I will trouble you to omit all discussion of my knowledge or my ignorance.
                        Your account with this bank is at present in a shape forbidden by law. It must be adjusted at
                        once. That is all that concerns me in the case. Please confine yourself to that."
                    Tandy became placative and apologetic.
                    "You must really pardon me, Mr. Duncan. This thing has knocked me out a good
                        dealit came upon me so suddenly and unexpectedly. I make my apologies if I have said anything to
                        offend. But is there  nothing I can do to fix the
                        thing upso that the bank can carry it for me till I can turn around? You see these things are so
                        customary in banks that it never occurred to me that you would insist upon the strict letter of
                        the law."
                    "I have taken an oath," answered Duncan, "to obey and
                        enforce the strict letter of the law in the administration of this bank"s affairsjust
                        as you did when you were president here. I, at least, intend to
                        respect my oath."
                    "What do you require of me?"
                    "For one thing, that you shall put your account into a shape permitted by
                        law and warranted by prudence. In doing that, you shall have all the help the bank can properly
                        lend you."
                    "Tell me your exact terms," said Tandy, "and I will
                        endeavor to comply with them."
                    "You must comply with them, as they will be only such as it is my duty to
                        insist upon."
                    "What are they?"
                    "First of all, you must to-day deposit fifteen thousand dollars, in cash or
                        securities, to make good that bit of paper," said Duncan, holding up the three-cornered
                        fragment of a letter sheet, on which there was written in Tandy"s hand:
                    Good for $15,000count Ms as cash. N. T., Pres"t.
                    "I found that in our cash assets only this morning, Mr. Tandy. Until it
                        turned up I had cherished  the belief that your
                        irregularities were only such as you say are customary with bank officers. I believe it is not
                        customary, however, for the president of a bank to abstract fifteen thousand dollars of the
                        bank"s cash and substitute for it a mere pencil scribbling on a scrap of paper, signed
                        with initials."
                    Tandy sat gazing vacantly at Duncan, with livid lips and contorted features. He had
                        so long been accustomed to administer the bank"s affairs as suited his personal
                        convenience that he had quite forgotten this little transaction. Recovering himself, he said
                        presently:
                    "That was an oversight on my part, Mr. Duncan. It was merely a matter of
                        temporary convenience. You see, one evening after hours, I happened suddenly to need that amount
                        in currency. I came here to the bank and got it, putting the mem. into the cash box in its
                        stead, as there were none of the bank"s officers or clerks here to take my check.
                        Besides, I hadn"t my check-book with me. I fully intended to arrange the matter before
                        the bank opened the next morning, but somehow I forgot it. It was only an oversight, I assure
                        you."
                    "It was a felony," answered Duncan, in a tone as free from stress
                        as if he had merely said, "It is raining." Then he added:
                    "Will you make a deposit now to clear that matter up? After you do so we can
                        go on and adjust the other matters."
                    
                    "Have mercy on me, Duncan! Give me a day or two to look about me!
                        I"ve been investing very heavily of late, and really I can"t raise fifteen
                        thousand at a moment"s notice. You know I am good for ten times the sum. Why not let it
                        rest for a week, say?"
                    " Mr. Tandy," replied Duncan, enunciating every syllable as
                        precisely as if he had been reciting a lesson in a foreign tongue, "let me remind you
                        of something. Some time ago you offered to pay me a high price to commit a crime. You remember
                        the circumstance, I have no doubt. You remember that I refused, and that you sought revenge by
                        lying to the men who were then employing me. You told an infamous he that, if it had been
                        believed, would have blasted my good name forever. No, don"t interrupt. I had not
                        intended to mention this matter, especially in Mr. Leftwich"s presence,"
                        bowing toward the bookkeeper, whose jaw had relaxed in astonishment. "I had not
                        intended to mention that matter, but you have forced me to remind you of it, by trying now to
                        persuade me to commit a crime without any inducement whatever except such as may be implied in
                        my concern for your convenience. Until now I have been prepared to consider your convenience so
                        far as I could do so consistently with my duty to the bank. I am now not disposed to consider it
                        at all. You must bring fifteen thousand dollars here within an hour, and redeem that piece of
                        paper, or I shall proceed against you criminally. After you shall have done that, you must  make such other deposits of cash or acceptable
                        securities as may be necessary to set your general account in order. That is all I have to say.
                        I give you hour in which to take up this paper, and I give the rest of the day in which to
                        adjust the other matter. That ends our conference, and I must ex myself. You know your way
                        out."
                
                
                
                    XXX
                    THE MYSTERY
                        OF TANDY
                    
                    TANDY quitted the bank in very serious distress of mind. He was a capitalist of large
                        means, but even a great capitalistand he could not be reckoned as quite thatmay sometimes find
                        it inconvenient to raise money in considerable sums upon the instant. It so happened that just
                        at this time Tandy"s means were all employed and his credit stretched almost to the
                        point of breaking, by reason of his excessive and largely concealed investments in a number of
                        enterprises.
                    On the moral side, it would have been difficult even for Tandy himself to say just
                        what measure of suffering he endured. His conscience was case hardened, but his financial
                        reputation was not only a valuable, but an absolutely necessary part of his equipment for the
                        businesses in which he was engaged. That reputation was now in great danger. He wondered if
                        Duncan would tell the story of that scrap of paper. He wondered still more, whether Duncan might
                        not report the matter to the comptroller of the currency  at Washington, and thus bring about a criminal prosecution, even after the
                        sum irregularly borrowed had been repaid. Then he remembered, with something like a spasm round
                        his heart, that the bookkeeper, Leftwich, had heard the whole conversation, and he remembered
                        also that he had been, as he put it, "rather hard on Leftwich" upon several
                        occasions in the past. If Leftwich cherished resentment on that account, his malice now had its
                        opportunity.
                    On the whole, Napper Tandy could not recall another day in all his life on which he
                        had suffered so much in spirit as he did now. But there was no time for brooding or lamenting.
                        He felt that he was in Guilford Duncan"s clutches, and, while he knew little of
                        conscientious scruples by virtue of any soul experiences of that kind on his own part, he had so
                        far learned to understand Duncan as to know that he would, as a matter of conscience alone,
                        enforce the strict letter of his demand.
                    He hastened to find Captain Will Hallam, and to him he made almost a piteous appeal
                        for a loan of fifteen thousand dollars through the Hallam bank.
                    "So Duncan carries too many guns for you, eh?" was the flippant
                        remark with which Captain Hallam received the appeal.
                    "Will you let me have the money?" almost frantically pleaded the
                        now thoroughly frightened man. "You see time is precious. I"ve less than an
                        hour in  which to raise the sum. You must help me out, Hallam."
                    "I really don"t know whether I can arrange it or not. I"ll
                        see Stafford and find out how far our loans arc extended. What security can you give? You know
                        Stafford is very exacting as to the character of the security on which he lends the
                        bank"s funds."
                    "Yes, I knowand that is very awkward just now. I"m a good deal tied
                        up, you know. I"ve been buying property along the line of our proposed railroad.
                        I"ve bought rather heavily, and as I hadn"t expected to be called upon to
                        raise money just now, I have gone in pretty deep on credit. You know how impossible it is to
                        realize on such property, even at a loss, when a man must have money at once."
                    "Then what can you offer?"
                    "Well, I"ve a pretty large block of stock in the Memphis and Ohio
                        River Railroad"
                    "Not good collateral till the road is finished. You know we
                        couldn"t touch that."
                    Tandy mentioned some other securities that Hallam deemed insecure, and by this time
                        Hallam had begun to wonder what was the matter with Tandy. He knew, or thought he knew, that the
                        man must have greatly more money invested somewhere than these things represented. He had a
                        great curiosity to know what the other investments were, but he did not find out, for at last,
                        within a brief while of the end of his hour of grace, the troubled man said:
                    
                    "There is nothing for it but to hypothecate a part of my stock in the X
                        National. You know that is good."
                    "Oh, yes, that"s good. Stafford will accept that as collateral if
                        the bank is in a position to extend its loans. I"ll go and see."
                    When he told Stafford what the situation was, that astute bankerwho had been in many
                        a financial fisticuff with Tandyquietly said:
                    "I don"t see why we should make the loan. Why not refuse it, and
                        then have you offer to buy the stock outright at about par? He must sell, for if I have
                        correctly sized up our friend Duncan, he"ll never let up on his demand in this case. A
                        man with a conscience like his simply can"t let up in such a matter."
                    "That"s the way we"ll fix it," answered Hallam,
                        with an amused twinkle in his eye. "He"s obviously in need of a little more
                        education at my hands, and he can afford to pay for it. I"ll buy the stock at parnot a
                        cent more. I suppose it"s worth a hundred and three?"
                    "Yesall of that, and it will be worth more presently under Duncan"s
                        management. What a fellow that is, anyhow!"
                    "I imagine Tandy thinks so by this time."
                    As there was no other bank in Cairo, and nobody else who could make a loan such as
                        Tandy must have on the instant, he was simply compelled to make the sale on Hallam"s
                        own terms.
                    
                    With Hallam"s check in hand, he hurried to the X National, arriving there
                        just in time to meet Guilford Duncan"s demand.
                    Duncan received the check in the bank parlor, again insisting that Leftwich should be
                        present at the interview.
                    "I"ll take that paper, if you please," Tandy said, holding
                        out his hand for it.
                    "Not until you shall have adjusted the other matter. The bank"s
                        books show that, while you were still president of the institution, you made a loan of thirty
                        thousand dollars to yourself, on your unsecured note, without even an endorsement. You know that
                        in doing so, you violated the law you were sworn to obey and enforce. With that I do not now
                        concern my-self. What I ask is that you secure the bank for that loan, which still stands. When
                        that is done, Mr. Leftwich will return this paper to you. In the meanwhile, I place it in his
                        hands."
                    "Really, Mr. Duncan"for since the early part of that
                        morning"s interview, Tandy had not ventured again upon the familiarity of addressing
                        Duncan without the "Mr.""really, Mr. Duncan, you are pressing me too
                        hard. You must give me a, few days"
                    "How can I? The law would hold me at fault if I should allow the bank to
                        close to-day with that loan unsecured. I have no right to give you time."
                    "Your are persecuting me!"
                    
                    "No, I am not. If I were minded to do that, I should call the loan in at
                        once. As it is, I only ask youas I mustto secure it as the law requires. I will accept any
                        fairly good collateral you may have to offer. There is surely no hardship in thatno persecution
                        in demanding that you shall temporarily" leave with the bank enough of the bonds or
                        stock certificates that you hold in plenty, to comply with the law concerning loans by national
                        banks. I have simply no choice but to insist upon that."
                    "But I tell you," answered Tandy, "that at present I have
                        no bonds or stocks conveniently available for such a purpose."
                    "I will accept your insurance stock."
                    "I"ve parted with that."
                    "Well, as I certainly have no disposition to be hard upon you, I"ll
                        accept your stock in the Atlantic and Mississippi Steamship Company, or even your Mississippi
                        Valley Transportation Company stock, though neither can be reckoned a first-class
                        security."
                    "I"ve sold out of both companies," answered Tandy.
                    By this time Duncan began to wonder what had happened to Tandy, in a financial way,
                        just as Hallam had done.
                    "Wonder where he has been putting his money," he thought.
                        "For surely he had plenty of it a little while ago. He"s been buying property
                        along the new railroad, but that isn"t sufficient to tie up a man  of Tandy"s wealth. Something must be the matter. I must be
                        cautious".
                    "I"ll put up a hundred thousand in Memphis and Ohio River
                        stock" began Tandy.
                    You know I cann"t consider that," said Duncan; "no sane
                        banker could. But if you choose, the bank will accept stock in your coal minereckoned at fifty
                        cents on the dollaras security."
                    "That"s out of the question. I"m negotiating a sale of my
                        interests there, and it would embarrass me to have the stock hypothecated just now."
                    "Very well, then. What do you propose to do? Of course you have a large
                        block of stock in this bank. Why not put that up as security, and give yourself all the time you
                        need? Or if you don"t want to hypothecate the stock with this bank, you can arrange a
                        loan on it with Stafford or Hallam."
                    Tandy hesitated for a time before answering. At last he said:
                    "I"ve only thirty-three shares left. Why shouldn"t the
                        bank buy it outright, putting the loan in as a principal part of the purchase money?"
                    "At what price will you sell?"
                    "At 103. It"s worth that and more.
                    "I"ll consider the offer. Come back in an hour for your
                        answer."
                    Duncan sent at once for Hallam and Stafford, as the principal stockholders in the
                        bank, other than Tandy, and told them all that had happened. They  advised the purchase, but suggested 102 as the price, and an hour later
                        Napper Tandy ceased to be a stockholder in the X National Bank.
                    A day or two later Stafford learned that by this sale of his bank stock, Tandy had
                        practically parted with the last investment he had in any Cairo enterprise.
                    He greatly wondered at that, and as he sat with Duncan and Hallam in
                        Hallam"s parlor that night, the three indulged in many conjectures concerning Tandy and
                        his plans. The only conclusion they arrived at was expressed by Captain Will:
                    "He"s up to mischief of some sort. We must watch him."
                
                
                
                    XXXI
                    ONLY
                        A WOMAN
                    
                    IN accordance with his custom, Duncan told Barbara the whole story of the
                        bank"s dealings with Tandy, and explained to her his reasons for suspecting, as Captain
                        Hallam had said, that Tandy was "up to mischief" of some kind and needed close
                        watching.
                    "Perhaps he has lost money heavily," suggested Barbara,
                        "and is struggling to keep his head above Water."
                    "That is extremely unlikely," answered Duncan,
                        "particularly as his standing at Bradstreet"s is unimpaired. I asked
                        Bradstreet"s yesterday for a special report on him, and they gave him four
                        A"s. That means that he has ample capital and abundant resources somewhere within the
                        knowledge of Brad-street"s agents. I imagine that he is going quietly into some big
                        enterprise, and has so far invested his capital in it that he was sorely embarrassed for ready
                        money when suddenly called upon to raise it. I would give a tidy little sum to find out what he
                        is up to."
                    
                    But neither Duncan nor Hallam was destined to make that discovery as yet. Soon after
                        the bank matter was settled, Tandy seemed quite at ease again financially. He resumed his
                        purchases of property along the line of the proposed railway, but only along the eastern half of
                        it. He bought none in Cairo or within fifty miles of that city.
                    Two months later, after Duncan s campaign was over, and the elections had been held,
                        he and Barbara came back to the subject. Duncan told Barbara of the queer provision that Tandy
                        had persuaded the authorities of two counties to put into their bond appropriation, and
                        expressed his curiosity to know the motive.
                    "He didn"t do that thing just for fun, Guilford," the girl
                        said, after she had thought the matter over for twenty-four hours. "He has some
                        interest to serve."
                    Of course. I"m very sure of that."
                    "We must find out what it is," said the girl, whose apprehension
                        was strongly aroused.
                    "But how, Barbara?"
                    "I don"t know how, at present, but I"m trying to find out
                        a. way. I don"t know enough about the facts as yet to make a good guess. You must tell
                        me some things."
                    "Anything you like."
                    "Is there any other railroad that might be injured by this one? Any road, I
                        mean, that he might be  interested in enough to make
                        him want this project defeated?"
                    "No, certainly not. On the contrary, he has a tremendous interest in the
                        building of our road. Of small, now that he is out of the bank, but as you know, he has been
                        buying property very heavily along our proposed line. Of course, when the road is finished the
                        towns along the line will grow, and property there will go up. In view of that, he has been
                        buying lots, houses, and business buildings at all the places where principal stations are
                        likely to be located."
                    It was two or three days later when Barbara returned to the subject by a somewhat
                        indirect route.
                    "Tell me about Paducah, Guilford," she said to him suddenly.
                    He laughingly answered:
                    "Paducah is a thriving town in northwestern Kentucky. It lies on the Ohio
                        River about fifty miles above the mouth of that stream. It has a small but ambitious population,
                        and is a considerable market for the sale of tobacco. That"s about all I remember of
                        what the gazeteer says about the interesting burg."
                    "And you know that isn"t what I want you to tell me. Are there any
                        railroads there?"
                    "One small one, running from the south, ends there, I believe, and the
                        Paducah people are trying to induce the company which is building the Memphis and Ohio River
                        Railroad to make its northern terminus there  instead
                        of at Cairo. They are trying, too, to get a bridge built across the Ohio at that point. They are
                        unlikely to succeed in either project, for the reason that they have no railroad connection
                        north or east. Railroads from the south running into Paducah would find no outlet except by the
                        river."
                    Barbara was silent for some time Then she asked:
                    "Is Mr. Tandy interested in any business at Paducah?"
                    "I really don"t know. He"s in all sorts of things you
                        know. But why do you ask?"
                    Instead of answering, she asked another question:
                    "Is he interested in the company you spoke of, that is building a line from
                        Memphis to the Ohio River?"
                    "Yes. He"s heavily in that. Indeed, he is president of it, I
                        believe, or something like that, just as he is of our companywell, no, the parallel
                        doesn"t hold, that is a full-fledged railroad company actually engaged in building. I
                        suppose that is one of the things that tied Tandy up at the time of the bank trouble. He had put
                        a pot of money into it, and he could neither sell his stock nor raise money on it till the road
                        should be finished and in operation. But why do you ask about that, Barbara?"
                    For answer, she crossed the room, and returning, spread out a map on a table.
                    "Look!" she said, putting her finger on the map.
                    
                    "At a point only a little east of that county line concerning which Tandy
                        got the strange stipulation made, our proposed line will be much nearer to Paducah than the
                        distance from that point to Cairo. May it not be possible"
                    "By Jove, Barbara!" Duncan exclaimed, as he bent over the map,
                        "you"ve solved the riddle. "What a splendid combination it is! And
                        how we must hustle to defeat it!"
                    "You must be calm, then, and let us work it all out, and be sure of
                        everything before you tell Captain Will about it. I want you to have full credit for the timely
                        discovery."
                    "Me? Why, it is all yours, Barbara, and you are to have all the credit of
                        it."
                    "Oh, no. You told me the things that enabled me to guess it out, and
                        I"ve only been trying to help you. I"m glad if
                        I have helped, but positively my name mustn"t be mentioned. I"m only a woman!"
                    "Only a woman!" Duncan echoed. "Only a woman! Barbara, God"s wisdom was never so wise as when he created
                        "only a woman" to be a "helpmeet for man.""
                
                
                
                    XXXII
                    THE RIDDLE EXPLAINED
                    
                    THE next half hour was spent, as Barbara expressed it, in "perfecting the
                        guess" she had made.
                    "Tandy has gone into that Memphis and Ohio River enterprise up to his
                        eyes," said Duncan. "Naturally, he has got his controlling interest in it at
                        an extremely low price, as compared with the face value of the stock and bonds, for the reason
                        that the road ends at Paducah, which is much the same thing ending nowhere
                    "But if he can succeed in diverting our line to Paducah instead of Cairo,
                        thus securing an entirely satisfactory connection north and east, his Memphis and Ohio road will
                        become part of one of the greatest trunk lines in this part of the country, and the advance in
                        his stock and bond holdings will make him one of the richest men in the West."
                    "That is what I was thinking, Guilford, but I hardly dared suggest itI know
                        so little. I didn"t know that it would be possible to change our line. I  thought that maybe its charter compelled it to run
                        to Cairo."
                    "No, unfortunately, it doesn"t. Tandy secured the charter in the
                        first place before Hallam and Stafford went into the project. I wonder," he added with
                        a puzzled look, "I wonder if the old schemer was looking this far ahead. At any rate,
                        the charter, as Tandy had it drawn, requires only that the line shall be so located and
                        constructed as to connect the rail-roads running east from its eastern terminus with the
                        Mississippi Riverit doesn"t say at what point. That requirement would be fully met, of
                        course, if the road should be diverted to Paducah, connecting there with the line to
                        Memphis."
                    "But why did Tandy want that county line provision put into the bond
                        subscription?"
                    "Look at the map again. Those two counties lie west of the point at which
                        the road must be turned south if it is to be diverted to Paducah. If we fail to build across
                        that county line by noon of the fifteenth of next March, the subscriptions of both those
                        counties will be forfeited. Then Tandy will step in and offer the company that is building the
                        line a much larger subscription of some sort from Paducah and from his Memphis road, as an
                        inducement to shorten the line by taking it to Paducah instead of Cairo."
                    "That would ruin Cairo?" the girl asked, anxiously.
                    
                    "It would be a terrible blow to the city"s prosperity.
                        But," looking at his watch, "I must lay this matter before Hallam and Stafford
                        to-night, late as it is."
                    Then, going to the little telegraph instrument which, for his own convenience, he had
                        installed in Barbara"s house, he called Captain Hallam out of bed and clicked off the
                        message:
                    The milk in the cocoanut is accounted for. I must see you and Stafford to-night,
                        without fail. Summon him. I"ll go up to your house at once.
                    It did not require much time or many words for Duncan to explain the situation as he
                        now understood it. Nor was there the slightest ground for doubt that the solution reached was
                        altogether the correct one.
                    "It"s a deep game he"s been playing," said
                        Hallam.
                    "It is one of the finest combinations I ever heard of," responded
                        Stafford. "You"ve a mighty long head, Duncan, to work out such a
                        puzzle."
                    "Don"t be too complimentary to my head. I didn"t work it
                        out, responded the younger man.
                    "You didn"t? Who did, then?"
                    "Barbara Verne! She forbade me to mention her name, but I will not sail
                        under false colors."
                    "Well, now, I want to say," said Stafford, "that
                        you"ve a mighty long head, anyhow, to make a counselor of such a girl as Barbara Verne.
                        It"s the very  wisest thing you ever did in
                        your life, and the wisest you ever will do till you make her your wife. Of course, that will
                        come in due time?"
                    "I hope so, but I am not sure I can accomplish that."
                    "Really?"
                    "Really."
                    "Why, I had supposed it was all arranged. Why haven"t you"
                    "Perhaps I have. At any rate, the doubt I spoke of is not due to any neglect
                        of opportunity on my part. But we must get to business. It is two o"clock in the
                        morning. We"ve found out old Napper"s game. Now, what are we going to do about
                        it?"
                    During this little side conversation, Hallam had been pacing the floor, thinking. He
                        now began issuing his orders, like shots from a rapid-fire gun.
                    "Go to the instrument there, Duncan, and telegraph Temple to come to Cairo
                        by the first train. Tell him to give instructions to his assistant as to the running of the mine
                        during a long absence on his part."
                    When Duncan had finished the work of telegraphing, Hallam turned to him, saying:
                    "You, Duncan, are to start for New York on the seven o"clock train
                        this morning. Leave your proxy with Stafford to vote your stock in the present company,
                        and"
                    
                    "What"s your plan, Hallam?" interrupted Stafford.
                    "To give old Napper Tandy the very hardest lesson he"s ever had to
                        learn at my hands. You and I will call a meeting of the company immediately, and make Duncan
                        president."
                    "But how are we to get rid of Tandy?"
                    "Ask him to resign, and kick him out if he doesn"t. But listen!
                        We"ve no time to waste. We"ll reorganize this companymaking it a real railroad
                        company to build the road, instead of being the mere projecting company it is now. You and I and
                        Duncan will put all the money we can spare into it, and we"ll make every man in Cairo
                        who"s got anything beyond funeral expenses put it in. All the subscriptions already
                        made to the inducement fund we"ll convert into permanent stock subscriptions. Then,
                        with the county, city, and town subscriptions in hand, we"ll have about four millions
                        of our stock subscribed. We must have twelve millions of stock in all. It is for you, Duncan, to
                        find the rest in New York. You must see capitalists and persuade them to go in with us, as
                        subscribers, either to the stock or to the construction bonds that we"ll issue. You are
                        to use your own judgment and we"ll back you up."
                    "What are you going to do with Temple?"
                    "Make him chief engineer to the company, and set him at work
                        surveying" and locating the line at once. It"s now three o"clock. You
                        must go and  pack your trunk, Duncan. I"ll
                        telegraph you in New York, telling you everything you need to know. Take your copy of our
                        private cipher code with you, in case we should have confidential communications to make. Go,
                        now. I"ll smooth your way by telegraphing our correspondents in New York, and the
                        officers of the Fourth National, asking them to help you. Stafford, you"d better go
                        home now. You"re getting along in life, you know, and need your sleep."
                        Stafford was about ten years younger than Hallam.
                    So ended a conference that was destined, by the success or failure of its purpose, to
                        decide the fate of a great enterprise and the future of a thriving cityto say nothing of the
                        career of a brilliant young man.
                
                
                
                    XXXIII
                    AT CRISIS
                    
                    Is it was December now, and winter had set in early. Temple found it exceedingly
                        difficult to secure the assistant surveyors, rodmen, chainmen and the rest, whose services were
                        absolutely necessary, but by dint of hard work, he at last completed the organization of his
                        several engineering corps, and set to work surveying the line, locating it, establishing grades,
                        and the like.
                    Hurry it as he might, the work was very slow, because of the bad weather, but at
                        least it went forward, and early in January gangs of men were sent into each county to make a
                        show, at least, of construction work, and thus to avoid all possibility of the forfeiture of the
                        county and town subscriptions.
                    The greatest difficulty encountered was in meeting the requirement that a car should
                        actually cross the line between the two counties by noon of the fifteenth of March. That part of
                        the line was peculiarly difficult of access. It could be reached only by a twenty-five mile
                        journey across country, over roads which,  in the
                        winter, were well-nigh impassable. In order to build any sort of railroad line at the point
                        involved, it was necessary to carry across country all the tools, earth cars, and construction
                        materials, together with a large company of workmen. Huts must be built to shield the men from
                        the severity of the weather, and provisions for them must be hauled over twenty-five miles of
                        swamp roads. In order to do so, streams must be bridged for the wagons, and in many places the
                        road must be "corduroyed" for many miles of its extent. That is to say, it
                        must be paved with unhewn logs, laid side by side across it.
                    It was near the end of February, therefore, before anything like systematic
                        construction at that point could be got under way.
                    Meanwhile, Duncan"s mission to New York had been successful, though it was
                        attended by much of difficulty. He had secured the necessary stock subscriptions, and better
                        still, he had succeeded in inducing one of the great trunk lines of the East to guarantee a
                        considerable bond issue on the part of the new road, under an agreement that when completed it
                        should be made, in effect, an extension of the eastern company"s lines.
                    The only problem now was to prevent that diversion of the proposed line which Tandy
                        was openly trying to bring about. The New York capitalists whom Duncan had secured as
                        stockholders in the enterprise, were, many of them, disposed to look upon  the proposed change of terminus from Cairo to the rival city with a
                        good deal of favor. Such a change would considerably shorten the line to be built, and the
                        connection southwest from Paducah to Memphis was in some respects a more desirable one than that
                        from Cairo.
                    But Duncan had secured from the capitalists a trustworthy promise that the line
                        should be built to Cairo, as originally planned, provided the Cairo people, with Duncan, Hallam,
                        and Stafford at their head, should protect the subscriptions of the two hesitating counties by
                        meeting the requirement imposed at Tandy"s suggestion. Thus everything depended upon
                        the completion of a track across that county line before noon on the fifteenth day of March.
                    Temple had succeeded in getting the work started, but the task was a Herculean one.
                        Duncan hurried to the scene of action as soon as he returned from New York to Cairo. He found
                        that the space to be built over was very low-lying, and that the nearest source of supply for
                        earth with which to build the high embankment required was nearly two miles distant.
                    Temple had begun work at that point. He was extending an embankment thence toward the
                        point where the county line must be crossed. On this he was laying a temporary track as fast as
                        it was extended, in order that his earth cars might be pushed over it with their loads of
                        filling material.
                    
                    Duncan"s first look at the progress of the work convinced him that it could
                        not be completed within the time allowed, unless a much larger working force could be secured.
                    He instantly telegraphed to Hallam:
                    Must have more men immediately. If you can send two hundred at once there is a bare
                        possibility of success, provided weather conditions do not grow worse. But without that many men
                        failure is inevitable. Why not send all your miners here?
                    Hallam, in his habitual way, acted promptly and with vigor. Leaving Stafford to hire
                        all the men who could be secured in Cairo, he himself hurried to the mines, and by promising
                        double wages, induced most of the men there to go for the time being into the work of railroad
                        construction. Within two or three days the total force at Duncan s command numbered somewhat
                        more than two hundred men.
                    "We ought to have fifty or a hundred more," he said,
                        "particularly as the miners are new to this sort of work; but, as we can"t get
                        them, we must do our best with the force we have."
                    After consultation with Temple, he divided the force into three shifts, and kept the
                        work going night and day, without cessation. For a time the rapid progress made gave Duncan
                        confidence in his ultimate success. In that confidence Temple shared, but with a reservation.
                    "I"m afraid we"re in for a freshet," he said.
                        "The  rivers are all rising, and the rain is
                        almost continuous now. All this region, except a hill here and there, lies lower than the flood
                        levels of the Ohio River on one side, and the Mississippi on the other. If the rise continues,
                        we shall have both rivers on us within a few days."
                    "Is there any way in which to meet that difficulty?" asked Duncan
                        anxiously.
                    "Yespossibly," Temple responded, slowly and hesitatingly.
                        "We might build a crib across the space still to be filled in, and make it serve the
                        purposes of a coffer dam in some degree. By doing that, we can keep the work going, even if the
                        overflow from the rivers comes upon us. But the building of the crib will take time, and
                        we"ve no time to waste, you know."
                    "Yes, I know that. Still, if it becomes necessary, we must build it.
                        I"ll tell you this evening what is to be done."
                    For convenience and quickness of communication, Duncan had strung a telegraph wire
                        from tree to tree through the woods to the point where the work was in progress. He instantly
                        telegraphed Hallam, saying:
                    Find out and telegraph flood prospect. How long before the rise in rivers will drown
                        us out here? Everything depends on early and accurate information as that.
                    The answer came back within half an hour. Hallam telegraphed:
                    
                    Have already made telegraphic inquiries at all points on all the rivers. Reports very
                        discouraging. Probability is you"ll be flooded within three days. I"ll be with
                        you to-morrow.
                    The space to be cribbed, so that the work of filling might go on in spite of floods,
                        was comparatively small, but the task of cribbing it, even in the rudest fashion, occupied
                        nearly the whole working force during three precious days and nights. Worse still, in order to
                        hurry it, Temple made the mistake of working the men overtime. As an inducement, Hallam promised
                        to increase the double wage per hour, which the men were already receiving, to triple wages, on
                        condition that they should work in two, instead of three shifts. As the work was exhausting in
                        its nature, and must be done under a deluge of bone-chilling rain, this overtasking of the men
                        quickly showed itself in their loss of energy and courage. Some of them threw up the employment
                        and made their way homeward. All of them were suffering and discouraged. But at the end of the
                        three days, the rude crib was so far finished that even should the floods come, it would still
                        be possible to continue the work of filling in by running the dirt cars to the slowly advancing
                        end of the temporary track and dropping their contents into the crib.
                    Thus the work went slowly on. The men daily showed, more and more, the effects of
                        their overworkfor each was working for twelve hours of each twenty-four now. They grew sullen
                        and moody of mind, and  slow of movement and of
                        response. Every day a few more of them gave up the task and Duncan began seriously to fear that
                        a wholesale quitting would occur in spite of the enormous wages he was paying.
                    With his soldier experience, he knew the symptoms of demoralization from overstrain,
                        and he began now to recognize them in the conduct and countenances of the men. His soldier life
                        had taught him, also, how large a part feeding plays in such a case as this. He, therefore,
                        minutely inspected the out-of-door mess kitchen, and found it in charge of careless and
                        in-competent negro women, who knew neither how to cook nor how to make food attractive in
                        appearance.
                    "The men eat a good deal," he said to Temple, "but they
                        are not properly nourished. I must remedy that. We simply must
                        win this struggle, Dick, and we"ve only six days more. If we can keep the men at work
                        for six days and nights more, we"ll either finish or finally fail."
                    It was Duncan"s habit every evening to call up Barbara"s house on
                        the telegraph and hold a little conversation with her over the wire. She was thus kept minutely
                        informed of how matters were going with him, and she was well-nigh sleepless with anxiety lest
                        he fail in this crowning undertaking of his career.
                    Turning away from Temple, he went to the telegraphic instrument, opened the circuit
                        and called Barbara. He explained his new difficulty to her, and  the vital importance of providing better and more abundant food, better
                        cooked.
                    "The men have been living on mess pork and "salt-horse"
                        for weeks, and both the meat and the half-baked dough served to them for bread are enough to
                        break the spirit even of veteran soldiers. Now, I want your help in earnest. If we can keep the
                        men at work for six days more, we shall have a chance, at least, of success. If we
                        can"t, failure is inevitable. I want you to buy a lot of the best fresh provisions you
                        can get in Cairo, and send them here early to-morrow morning, in charge of somebody who knows
                        how to hustle. Send one of my bank clerks if you can"t do better. Send some molasses,
                        too, in kegs, not barrels barrels take too long to handle. Send eggs, butter, rice, macacroni,
                        onions, turnips, cheese, and above all, some really good coffee. The calcined peas
                        we"ve been using for coffee would discourage even Captain Hallam if he dared drink the
                        decoction.
                    "Then, if possible, I want you to send me one or two cooks who really know
                        what cooking means. Don"t hesitate about wages. We"ll pay any price if you can
                        only find two cooks who know the difference between broiling beef and burning it. Till your
                        cooks come, I"m going to take charge of the cooking myself. I have at least such
                        culinary skill as we old rebel soldiers could acquire when we had next to nothing to
                        cook."
                    And he did. Guilford Duncan, distinguished man  of affairs, associate of financial nabobs, bank president, and president of
                        this railroad company, sat hour after hour on a log, or squatted before an out-door fire, doing
                        his best to make palatable such foodstuffs as were to be found in the camp.
                    "It"s a sorry task," he said to Temple. "The
                        stuff isn"t fit to eat at best. I wonder who bought it. God help the commissary who
                        should have issued it as rations, even in the starvation days of the Army of Northern Virginia.
                        The men would have made meat of him. But I can at least make it look a little more palatable,
                        and perhaps improve its flavor a little in the cooking, till Barbara sends fresh supplies and
                        some capable cooks."
                    "What answer did she made to you when you telegraphed?"
                    "Hardly any at all," he answered. She clicked out"
                        I"ll do my best," and then shut off the circuit, without even a word of
                        encouragement or sympathy. I"m seriously afraid she is ill. You know she shares our
                        anxiety, and she hasn"t been sleeping much, I imagine, since our troubles here reached
                        a crises."
                    "That"s your fault," said Temple.
                        "You"ve told her too much of detail. My Mary would be sleepless, too, if I had
                        kept her minutely informed of matters here. So I"ve only telegraphed her now and then,
                        saying: "Doing our best, and hopeful. Love to the baby," and she has
                        responded: "Your best is always good. Go on doing it. Baby well," or something
                        like  that. If you ever get married, Duncan,
                        you"ll learn to practice certain reserves with your wifefor her sake."
                    "No I won"t."
                    "But why so sure?"
                    "Because, if I ever marry, my wife will be a certain little woman whose
                        fixed determination it will be to share both my triumphs and my perplexitiesespecially the
                        perplexities. She will permit no reservesGod bless her for the most supremely unselfish and
                        heroically helpful woman that He ever made!"
                    "How women do differ in their ways!" said Temple, half musingly.
                    "Yes, and how stupidly men blunder in not adequately recognizing and
                        respecting their varying attitudes and temperaments! Do you know, Dick, I think life is
                        fearfully hard upon women and very unjust to them, even at its best; and it is my conviction
                        that the hardship might be very largely relieved and the injustice remedied, if men only had
                        sense enough to discover and grace enough to recognize the individualities and idiosyncracies of
                        the women with whom they are associated?"
                    "I think the trouble is not there," responded Temple.
                        "Most men understand their womankind fairly well. The trouble is that instead of
                        respecting the individualities of women as something to which they have a right, most men
                        conceitedly assume that it is  their duty to repress
                        those individualities, to mould their wives and daughters to a model of their own shaping. The
                        process is a cruel one when it succeeds. When it fails, it means wretchedness all around.
                        Indeed, I think that absolutely all there is of human disagreement of an unpleasant sort,
                        whether between men and women, or between persons of the same sex, is ultimately traceable to a
                        failure duly to recognize and respect the rights of individuality."
                    "I"m inclined to agree with you," answered Duncan; but now
                        I"ve got to dish up and carve this kettleful of corned beef, and you, I imagine, might
                        somewhat expedite the work of the earth shovelers by lending them the light of your countenance
                        for a time."
                    Duncan had scarcely finished the dishing up of the unsavory corned beef, the only
                        merit of which was that it was sufficiently cooked, when a dispatch came to him from the New
                        York bankers whom he had left in charge of the company s interests in the financial capital.
                        They telegraphed:
                    Tandy reports that you have completely failed to build across county line. The others
                        give notice that if so, they will deflect road to Paducah. Tandy offers subscriptions of vast
                        sum from countries, towns, Paducah, and his Memphis and Ohio road. What answer shall we give?
                        Answer by telegraph.
                    This message acted like an electric shock. It quickened every pulse of
                        Duncan"s being. It nerved  him to new
                        endeavor and renewed determination. He promptly replied:
                    Tell them to wait till time is up. They have given their promise and I have given
                        mine. I will keep mine. They must keep theirs. Remind them I"m not dead yet.
                    Then Duncan went to inspect the progress of the work.
                
                
                
                    XXXIV
                    A CHEER
                        FOR LITTLE MISSIE
                    
                    IT was after seven o"clock, and darkness had completely fallen, when Barbara
                        received Guilford Duncan"s telegraphic appeal for help "in earnest."
                        She wasted no timeslow operator that she was on the telegraphin sending messages of sympathy and
                        reassurance. She laboriously spelled out the words: "I"ll do my
                        best," and closed the instrument in order that she might attend to more pressing things
                        than telegraphic chatting.
                    She summoned Bob to serve as her protector, and promptly sallied forth into the
                        night. The great groceries, known as "boat stores," were accustomed to be open
                        very late at night, and often all night, for the accommodation of the stewards of steamboats
                        landing at the levee. At seven or eight in the evening they were sure to be open, with business
                        in unabated activity. But the clerks were full of curiosity when Barbara, escorted only by the
                        negro serving boy, presented herself and began rattling off orders greater in volume than any
                        they had ever received,  even from the steward of an
                        overcrowded passenger steamer. She began by ordering forty sugar cured hams and four
                        hindquarters of beef. She followed up these purchases with orders for four kegs of molasses, six
                        boxes of macaroni a barrel of rice, and so on through her list. Still more to the astonishment
                        of the clerks, she gave scarcely a moment to the pricing of the several articles, and seemed to
                        treat her purchases as matters of ordinary detail. They began to understand, however, when she
                        ordered the goods sent that night by express, to that station on the Illinois Central Railroad
                        which lay nearest the scene of Guilford Duncan"s operations, and directed that the bill
                        be sent to him at the X National Bank for payment.
                    Barbara made short work of her buying. When it was done she hurried home and packed a
                        small trunk with some simple belongings of her own. At seven o"clock the next morning,
                        accompanied by the negro boy Robert, she took the train and before noon found herself at the
                        little station to which she had ordered the freight sent. She was disappointed to find that
                        although she had ordered the goods sent by express, they had not come by the train on which she
                        had traveled.
                    The railroad was run by telegraphic orders in those days, and so, even at this small
                        station, there was an instrument and an operator. Making use of these, Barbara inquired
                        concerning the freight, and  was assured of its
                        arrival by a train due at four o"clock.
                    She spent the intervening time in securing two wagons with four stout horses to each,
                        and when the freight came it was loaded upon these with particular care, so that no accidents
                        might occur to delay the journey. If the roads had been even tolerably good, one of the wagons
                        might have carried the load, perhaps, but the roads were execrably bad and Barbara was not
                        minded to take any risks.
                    When the loading was done, it was nearly nightfall, but the eager girl insisted upon
                        starting immediately, to the profound disgust of her drivers. The first ten miles of road was
                        the best ten miles, as the drivers assured her, and by insisting upon a start that evening
                        instead of waiting for morning, she managed to cover that part of the distance by eleven
                        o"clock. Then she established a camp, saw the horses fed, gave the drivers a hot and
                        savory supper, and ordered them to be ready to start again at sunrise.
                    On resuming the journey in the morning, Barbara urged the teamsters to their best
                        endeavors, reinforcing her plea for haste with a promise of a tempting money reward for each of
                        them if they should complete the journey that day.
                    The drivers did their mightiest to earn the reward, but the difficulties in the way
                        proved to be much greater than even they had anticipated. For the  two great rivers had at last broken over their banks and their waters were
                        already spreading over the face of the land. The country through which the road ran was slightly
                        rolling. The small hillocks were secure from overflow at any time, but the low-lying spaces
                        between them were already under water, the depth of which varied from a few inches to two or
                        three feet. The soft earth of the roadbed was now a mere quagmire, through which the horses
                        laboriously dragged the wagons hub deep in mud.
                    Worse still were those stretches of road which had been corduroyed with logs. For
                        there some of the logs were floating out of place, and some were piled on top of those that were
                        still held fast in the mud.
                    In dragging the wagons through the mud reaches, it was necessary to stop every few
                        minutes to give the horses a breathing spell. On the corduroy stretches it was often necessary
                        to stop for half an hour or more at a time, while the drivers and Bob, wading knee deep, made
                        such repairs as were possible and absolutely necessary.
                    Bob, with his habitual exuberance of spirit, enjoyed all this mightily. The drivers
                        did not enjoy it at all. Several times, indeed, they wanted to abandon the attempt, declaring
                        that it was impossible to go farther. But for Barbara"s persuasive urgency, they would
                        have unhitched the horses and gone home, leaving the wagons to such fate as might overtake  them. As it was, the caravan moved slowly onward,
                        with many haltings and much of weariness.
                    It was midnight when, at last, the flare of the torches told Barbara that the journey
                        was done. Not knowing whither the wagons should be taken, Barbara bade Bob go and find Duncan.
                    When the young man heard of Barbara s arrival, he and Dick Temple hurried to her,
                        full of apprehension lest the journey and the exposure should have made her ill, and fuller
                        still of fear that the conditions hardship than she could bear. For the first time in his life,
                        Guilford Duncan felt like scolding.
                    "What on earth are you doing here, Barbara?" he asked, and before
                        he could add anything to the question, she playfully answered:
                    "Just now, I"m waiting for you to tell the teamsters where to drive
                        the wagons."
                    "But Barbara"
                    "Never mind the rest of your scolding. I"ve already rehearsed it m
                        my imagination till I know it all by heartforwards and backwards. Tell the men where the cooking
                        place is."
                    "But what are we to do with you, in all this flood and mud, and in the
                        incessant rain?"
                    "Just let me alone while I "help in earnest," as you said
                        in your dispatch that you wanted me to do. You telegraphed me that you wanted two good cooks, so
                        here we are, Bob and I. For, really, Bob has learned 
                        to cook as well as I can. I only wonder you didn"t send for us sooner. Now, we
                        mustn"t waste any more time talking. I"ve got to set to work if the men are to
                        have their breakfast on time, and there"s a lot of unloading to do before I can get at
                        the things."
                    The girl"s voice was strained and her manner not quite natural. The long
                        anxiety and the cold and the weariness had begun to tell upon her. She was strong and resolute
                        still, and ready for any physical effort or endurance that might be required of her. But she
                        felt that she could stand no more of emotional strain. So, speaking low to Duncan, in order that
                        his friend might not hear, she said:
                    "Please, Guilford, don"t say anything more that your tenderness
                        suggests. I can"t stand it. Be just commonplace and practical. Show the teamsters the
                        way and let me get to work. I"ll be happier then and better."
                    Duncan understood and was wise enough to obey. Half an hour later he and Temple had
                        gone back to the crib, leaving Barbara to direct the unloading of the wagons. A little later
                        still, Bob and the two negro women who had hitherto done the cooking went out among the men at
                        work, bearing great kettles of steaming coffee for the refreshment of the well-nigh exhausted
                        toilers. Bob accompanied his share of the coffee distribution by a little speech of his own
                        devising:
                    "Dar, now! Dat"s coffee as is, an it"s hot an"
                             strong, too. Little Missie done mek it wif her
                        own han"s and she"s de lady wot sen"s it to you. She"s done
                        come out inter de wilderness, jes to cook victuals fer you men, and you jes bet yer bottom
                        dollar you"ll git a breakfas" in the mawnin"."
                    Realizing the situation, and stimulated by their deep draughts of coffee, the men set
                        up a cheer for "Little Missie," though they knew not who she was, and thought
                        of her chiefly as a source of food supply. But they worked the better for the coffee, and for
                        the promise it held out of good things to come.
                
                
                
                    XXXV
                    THE END
                        OF
                        A STRUGGLE
                    
                    WHEN Duncan and Temple went to Barbara"s fire for their breakfast, after the
                        workmen had been served, both were quick-witted enough to see that the little lady was in no
                        condition to endure emotion of any kind. She had slept little on the night before leaving Cairo,
                        very little more at the night camp during the journey, and not at all on the night of her
                        arrival. Her first words indicated a purpose on her part to fend off all talk that might touch
                        upon personal matters.
                    "Good-morning, gentlemen," she said. "I"m very
                        well, thank you, so you needn"t ask me about that, especially as there are more
                        important things to be discussed. I brought all the supplies I could, but after seeing the men
                        eat, I realize that we shall run short of food very soon. How many more days are
                        there?"
                    "Four moreincluding to-day."
                    "Then you must telegraph at once to Cairo for more beef, or we shall run
                        short. Please go and telegraph  at once, Guilford.
                        Then come back and your breakfast will be ready."
                    When he had gone, the girl turned to Temple and said:
                    "Everything is ready for you two. Bob will serve it. I think I"ll
                        go and sleep a little, now. Don"t fail to wake me at ten o"clock, Bob, and
                        have the roasts cut and ready to hang over the fire when I get up."
                    With that, she tripped away to the canvas-covered wagon, winch Duncan had detained at
                        the camp to serve her as sleeping quarters.
                    Late in the evening of that day, the two teamsters, who had started early in the
                        morning on their return journey with the other wagon, rode back into camp on their horses. They
                        reported the water as rising everywhere. In addition to the incoming flood from the swollen
                        rivers, the nearly ceaseless rain had made raging torrents of all the creeks, and lakes of all
                        the valleys. The teamsters had been obliged to abandon their wagon, wholly unable to make their
                        way further.
                    "Then we shall get no more provisions," said Barbara, in a sadly
                        troubled voice.
                    "And that"s a pity," answered Temple. "For the
                        men"s spirits have greatly revived under the stimulus of your improved commissariat,
                        Miss Barbara. How long will your supplies last?"
                    "I"ve enough coffee, flour, and molasses." She answered,
                        "to last through. But the fresh meat will 
                        be exhausted by to-morrow night. The hams will help out, for breakfasts, but they won"t
                        go far among two hundred men. I"m sorry I couldn"t have brought
                        more".
                    "You could not have got through at all if your loads had been
                        heavier," said Duncan. "We must simply do the best we can with what
                        we"ve got. The coffee alone will go far to sustain the men, and the molasses will be a
                        valuable substitute for meat. I still have hopes that we shall win."
                    "Oh, we must win, you know. You
                        mustn"t allow yourself to think of anything else."
                    "We"ll try, at any rate, and with your superb courage to help us, I
                        think we shall win."
                    It was six o"clock on the morning of the last day, when the night gave its
                        first intimation of a purpose to come to an end. In the slow-coming gray of the dawn, the
                        torches still flared, casting long and distorted shadows of the work-weary men, as they
                        continued their toil. During that last night the entire company had been kept at work in a last
                        desperate effort to accomplish the end so vitally necessary. All night long Duncan had done what
                        he could to encourage the toilers, while Temple had given his attention to such devices as might
                        shorten the task, or otherwise facilitate its doing. All night long Barbara had busied herself
                        furnishing limitless coffee as an atonement for the insufficient food the men had  had since her supplies of meat ran out, two days
                        before.
                    During the last half hour the rain had almost ceased, and Guilford Duncan had
                        indulged an anxious hope that the skies might clear away with the sunrise, but just as the gray
                        of morning began to give light enough for the workmen to see without the aid of the torches, the
                        downpour began again, more pitilessly than ever.
                    Its discouraging effect upon the already exhausted men was instantly apparent. A
                        dozen of them at of the at once quitted work and doggedly sat down in the mud of the embankment.
                        Two or three others, reckless of everything but their own suffering, stretched themselves at
                        full length to sleep where they weretoo fortable spots in which to rest their worn-out bodies.
                    "Six hours more," said Duncan, looking at his watch. "Only
                        six hours between us and triumph. Only six hoursand we must lose all, simply because the men are
                        done up."
                    "We"ll do it yet," answered young Temple.
                    "We never can. Those fellows are done for, I tell you. I know the symptoms.
                        They"ve lost their morale, lost the ambition for
                        success. I"ve seen soldiers fall in precisely that way, too far gone even to shelter
                        themselves from a cannonade."
                    For the first time in his life, Guilford Duncan realized that there is such a thing
                        as the Impossible.  For the first time, he recognized
                        the fact that there may be things which even courage and determination cannot achieve.
                    The simple fact was that the long strain had at last begun to tell, even upon his
                        resolute spirit. For three days and nights now he had not slept For three days and nights he had
                        not sat down. For three days and nights he had been wading in water and struggling in mud, and
                        exhausting all his resources of mind and character in efforts to stimulate the men to continued
                        endeavor.
                    He was playing for a tremendous stake, as we know. His career, his future, all that
                        he had ever dreamed of of ambition, hung upon success or failure in this undertaking, and now at
                        last, and in spite of his heroic struggle, failure stared him in the face.
                    And apart from these considerations of self-interest, there were other and higher
                        things to be thought pf. If he failed now, an enterprise must be lost in which he had labored
                        for a year to induce others to invest millions. If he failed, the diversion of this railroad
                        from its original course must become an accomplished fact, to the ruin of his adopted city and
                        the paralysis of growth in all that region, for perhaps ten years to come. Thus his own career,
                        the millions of other men"s money which had been risked upon faith in his power to
                        achieve, and, worst of all, the development of all this fair, but very backward region all of
                        good to others, of which he had dreamed, and  for
                        which he had hoped and toileddepended upon his success or failure in keeping two hundred utterly
                        worn-out men at work in the rain, the water, and the mud, for six hours more
                    At last, this resolute man, whose courage had seemed unconquerable, was discouraged.
                    "Might as well give it up," said Will Hallam. "The men
                        simply will not work any longer."
                    "It isn"t a case of will not, but of cannot," answered
                        Duncan.
                    Barbara heard all, as she hovered over the fire of logs, and busied herself with her
                        tasks, regardless of rain and weariness, regardless of every consideration of self. She wore no
                        wraps or protection of any kind against the torrents of rain. "They would simply bother
                        me," she said, when urged to protect her person. Her face was flushed by the heat of
                        the fire, but otherwise she was very pale, and her tightly compressed lips were livid as she
                        straightened herself up to answer Duncan"s despairing words.
                    "You are wrong," she said. "They can work a little longer
                        if they will. It is for us to put will into them. Call them to the fire, a dozen or twenty at a
                        time, for breakfast. I"ve something new and tempting for themsomething that will renew
                        their strength. You and Captain Hallam and Mr. Temple must do the rest."
                    A. dozen of the men had already come with their tin cups to drink again of the strong
                        coffee that Barbara  had been serving to them at
                        intervals throughout the night. She had something more substantial for them now.
                    She had by her a barrel full of batter, and she and the negro boy, Bob, each with two
                        large frying pans, were making griddle cakes with astonishing rapidity. To each of the men she
                        gave one of the tin plates, with half a dozen of the hot cakes upon it, bidding each help
                        himself to molasses from the half barrel, from which, for convenience of ladling, Bob had
                        removed the head.
                    "This is breakfast," she said to the men, as they refreshed
                        themselves. "There"ll be dinner, and a good one, ready for all of you at noon,
                        when the work is done."
                    The men were too far exhausted to greet her suggestion with enthusiasm. The few words
                        they spoke in response were words of discouragement, and even of despair. They did not tell her
                        that they had decided to work no more, but she saw clearly that they were on the point of such
                        decision. The breakfast she was serving comforted them and gave them some small measure of fresh
                        strength, but it did not give them courage enough to overcome their weariness. The girl saw
                        clearly that something more effective must be devised and done.
                    She puckered her forehead quizzicallyafter her manner when working out a problem in
                        arithmetic. After a little the wrinkles passed away, and lifting  her eyes for a moment from her frying pans, she called to Captain Hallam:
                    "Would you mind coming here a minute?" she asked.
                    The man of affairs responded, wearily, but promptly.
                    "What is it Barbara?"
                    "May I spend two thousand dollars, if I get this job done by
                        noon?that"s the last minute, Mr. Duncan tells me."
                    "But how can you
                    "Never mind how. May I have the two thousand dollars?"
                    "Yestwenty thousandany amount, if only we succeed in pushing that car on
                        rails across the county line before the clock strikes twelve."
                    "Very well. I"ll see what I can do. Mr. Duncan, can you cook
                        griddle cakes?"
                    "Happily, yes," answered he. "I"m an old soldier,
                        you know."
                    "Very well, then. Please come here and cook for a little whilejust till I
                        get back. I won"t be long."
                    Duncan took command of her two frying pans. A little amused smile appeared on his
                        face as he did so, in spite of his discouragement and melancholy. But to the common sense and
                        sincerity of the girl, there seemed nothing ludicrous in setting him thus to the undignified
                        work. Intent upon her scheme, she darted away to where the several gangs of men were  still making some pretense of working. To each gang,
                        she said:
                    "I"ve got two thousand dollars for you men, if you stick to your
                        work and finish it before noon to-day. I"ll divide the money equally among all the men
                        who stick. It will be ten dollars apiece, or more. Of course, you"ll get your triple
                        wages besides. Will you keep it up? It"s only for a few hours more."
                    Her tone was eager, and her manner almost piteously pleading. Without the
                        persuasiveness of her personal appeal, it is doubtful that the men would have yielded to the
                        temptation of the extra earning. Even with her influence added, more than a third of themthose
                        who had already cast their tools aside again and surrendered to exhaustionrefused to go on again
                        with a task to which they felt themselves hopelessly unequal. But in every gang she addressed,
                        there was a majority of men who braced themselves anew, and responded. The very last of the
                        gangs to whom she made her appeal put their response into the form of a cheer, and instantly the
                        other gangs echoed it.
                    "What on earth has that girl said or done to the men to fetch a cheer from
                        them!" ejaculated Will Hallam.
                    "Reckon Little Missie"s jest done bewitched "em,"
                        responded Bob, as he poured batter into his pans.
                    A moment later Barbara, with a face that had not yet relaxed its look of intense
                        earnestness, returned  to the fire, and resumed her
                        work over the frying pans.
                    "Thank you, Mr. Duncan," was all she said in recognition of his
                        service as a maker of griddle cakes. But she added:
                    "The men will stick to work, now, I thinkor most of them, at any rate.
                        Perhaps you and Mr. Temple can do something to shorten itto lessen the amount."
                    Then, turning to Bob, she issued her orders:
                    "Bring the hog, Bob, as quickly as you can. There"s barely time to
                        roast it, before noon."
                    The men had nearly all had their breakfasts now, so that the making of griddle cakes
                        had about ceased. Hallam, Duncan, and the young engineer, Temple, taking new courage from
                        Barbara"s report concerning the disposition of the men, were going about among the
                        gangs, wading knee deep in water and mud, and giving such directions as were needed.
                    Duncan, especially, was rendering service. As an old soldier, who had had varied
                        experience in the hurried construction of earthworks under difficulties, he was able in many
                        ways to hasten the present work. One thing he hit upon which went far to make success possible.
                        That end of the crib which reached and be filled in. It was thickly surrounded by trees, and
                        Duncan ordered all these felled, directing the chopping so that the trunks and branches should
                        fall into  the crib. Then setting men to chop off
                        such of the branches as protruded above the proposed embankment level, and let them fall into
                        the unoccupied spaces, he presently had that part of the crib loosely filled in with a tangled
                        mass of timber and tree tops.
                    Gangs of men were meanwhile pushing cars along the temporary track, and dumping their
                        loads of earth among the felled trees. Duncan, with a small gang, was extending these temporary
                        tracks along the crib as fast as the earth dumped in provided a sufficient bed.
                    This work of filling was very slow, of course, and when Duncan"s watch
                        showed ten o"clock, he was well-nigh ready to despair. Under the strain of his anxiety
                        he had forgotten to take any breakfast, and the prolonged exposure to water and rain had so far
                        depressed his vitality that he now found a chill creeping over him. He hurried to
                        Barbara"s fire for some coffee and a few mouthfuls of greatly needed food. There for
                        the first time he saw what Barbara"s promised dinner was to be. The two separated
                        halves of a dressed hog hung before and partly over the fire, roasting.
                    "Where on earth did you get that?" he asked in astonishment.
                    "Bob got it last night," she answered, "and dressed it
                        himself."
                    "But where, and how?"
                    "I don"t know yet. He laughs when I ask questions.  I"m sorely afraid Bob stole the hog from
                        some farmer. I sent him out with some money to buy wha-tever meat he could find, for I saw that
                        the men must have substantial food. He came back about daylight, and told me he had a dressed
                        hog "out dar in de bushes." He gave me back all the money I had given him,
                        and, as I say, he simply laughs when I ask questions. I"ll make him tell me all about
                        it this afternoon. If he stole the hog, we can pay for it. And mean-while the men shall have
                        their dinner. How is the work getting on?"
                    "Rapidlybut not rapidly enough, I fear. I must hurry back now."
                    "I"ll go with you," said the girl. "Bob can watch
                        the roasting," for Bob had reappeared at the fire.
                    "But you can"t go with me," replied Duncan.
                    "The water"s knee deep, and more, between here and the
                        crib."
                    "It can"t make me any wetter than I am now," replied the
                        resolute girl, as she set off in Duncan"s company.
                    At the crib she studied the situation critically. She knew nothing of engineering, of
                        course, but she had an abundance of practical common sense, and in most of the affairs of this
                        life, common sense goes a long way as a substitute for skill.
                    "What time is it now?" she asked, after she had watched the slow
                        progress of the work long enough to estimate the prospect.
                    
                    "Half past ten."
                    "Then we"ve only an hour and a half more. It isn"t enough.
                        You can never fill that hole in time."
                    "I"m afraid we can"t. I"m afraid we"ve
                        lost in the struggle."
                    "Oh, no, you mustn"t feel that way. We simply must win this battle.
                        If we can"t do it in one way, we must find another."
                    Duncan made no answer. There seemed to him no answer to be made. The girl continued
                        to look about her. After a while she asked:
                    "Is the end of the crib at the county line?"
                    "Yesor rather the line lies a little way this side of the end of the
                        crib."
                    Again she remained silent for a time, before saying:
                    "There are two big tree trunks lying longways there in the crib. They extend
                        across the county line. Why can"t you jack them up into place, and lay your rails along
                        them, without filling the space, and without using any ties?"
                    For half a minute the young man did not answer. At last he exclaimed:
                    "That"s an inspiration!"
                    Without pausing to say another word Duncan started at a run through the water till he
                        reached the mud embankment. Then he ran along that to the point where Temple was superintending
                        the earth diggers.
                    
                    "Quit this quick!" he cried, "and hurry the whole force to
                        the crib. I see a way out. Order all the jack-screws brought, Dick, and come yourself in a
                        hurry!"
                    The two great tree trunks were quickly cleared of their remaining branches by the
                        axmen. Then Temple placed the jack-screws under them, and set to work to raise them into the
                        desired position, so that they should lie parallel with each other, at the track level, with a
                        space of about four and a half feet between their centers.
                    As the jack-screws slowly brought them into position, Will Hallam and Duncan, one at
                        either end of the logsdirected men in the work of placing log supports under them.
                    At half past eleven Temple announced that the great tree trunks were in place.
                        Instantly twenty axmen were set at work hewing a flat place for rails along the top of each log,
                        while other men, as fast as the hewing advanced, laid and spiked down the iron rails.
                    At five minutes before noon, a gang of men, with shouts of enthusiastic triumph,
                        seized upon the dumping car, which stood waiting, and pushed it across the line! As this last
                        act in the drama began, Guilford Duncan seized Barbara by the elbows, kissed her in the presence
                        of all, lifted her off her feet, and placed her in the moving car.
                    "You have saved the railroad!" he said with emotion  in his voice, "and you shall be its first
                        passenger."
                    It was ten days later when Barbara reached home again, after a wearisome journey
                        through the flooded district, under the escort of Duncan and Captain Will Hallam, and with the
                        assistance of Temple, at the head of a gang of his ready-witted miners.
                    That evening Duncan stood face to face with her in the little parlor. Without
                        preface, he asked:
                    "Will you now say "yes," Barbara, to the question I asked
                        you so long ago?"
                    "I suppose I must," she answered, "afterafter what you did
                        when you set me in the car that last day of the struggle."
                    THE END
                
            
        
        
            
            
                The President
                A NOVEL
                BY ALFRED HENRY LEWIS Author of "The Boss".
                A story full of dramatic incidents, absorbing in its interest, extraordinary in its inner
                    glimpses of the great game of national politics. "The President" is first of all a
                    novel, picturing striking phases of life in Washington, Wall Street, and elsewhere, revealing
                    intrigues and full of dramatic happening. A most interesting love story runs throughout.
                    "The President" is more thoroughly a novel than "The Boss" in
                    the development of love, interest and intrigue. But the author has drawn upon his extraordinary
                    knowledge of the inside of political life and he and he tells a remarakable story. "The
                    President" is a book that will be heard from everywhere.
                
                    Illustrated in colors by Jay Hambidge 12mo, cloth. $1.50
                
                A. S. BARNES & CO.
            
            
            
                
                    "A LITERARY SENSATION."
                    
                        Philadelphia North American.
                    
                
                THE BOSS
                A Story of the Inner Life of New York
                By Alfred Henry Lewis Fourth edition in America Third edition in Australia
                
                    "The most complete and remarkable exposition that has yet been
                        produced."
                    
                        New York Times.
                    
                
                
                    "Is not only a book to read, it is a book that every man who has an interest
                        in his countryand in himself for that mattermust read."
                    
                        Chicago Evening Post.
                    
                
                
                    12mo, cloth. Illustrated by Glackens. $1.50
                
                A. S. BARNES & CO.
            
            
            
                THE Pagan"s Progress
                By GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON
                ILLUSTRATED BY JOHN RAE With original colored frontispiece
                Mr. Morris"s originality may be counted upon for the unexpected. His romance is
                    a story of elemental instincts in a strangely interesting environment. His story is original in that
                    primitive man really lives and loves in his pages. There are scenes thrilling with adventure,
                    warfare, jealousy and fierce revenge, and there are touches of delightful humor. How the Pagan
                    fought and loved is shown in the singularly graphic pages of this fresh and stirring romance of the
                    days when the world was young. The novelty of the illustrations and type is in keeping with the
                    originality of this dramatic tale of the loves of primitive man.
                
                    12mo, cloth. Illustrated. $1.00
                
                A. S. BARNES & CO.
            
            
            
                THE SUCCESS OF THE YEAR CAP"N ERI
                By" Joseph C. Lincoln
                
                    Fifth American edition Published also in England, Canada and
                    Australia
                
                
                    "Everybody"s friend."
                    
                        New York Sun.
                    
                
                
                    "All the freshness of realism wedded to humor."
                    
                        New York Mail.
                    
                
                
                    "Cap"n Eri is queer, quaint and delightful. Its title figure is too
                        much character by himself to be referred to for comparison even as a David Harum."
                    
                        New York World.
                    
                
                
                    "A splendid story. Laughter, incident and pathos are blended. Expectations
                        are more than realized. Will give the author a firm place in the world of contemporary
                        fiction."
                    
                        Newark Advertiser.
                    
                
                
                    "What a Whiff of manhood and strength blows about one as one reads. The
                        reader is at the author"s mercy, laughs with him and feels with him. The reading of
                        theses things is good for the soul. American authors who write such novels as Cap"n Eri
                        need fear no rebuff in England."
                    
                        London Academy.
                    
                
                
                    Illustrated in color by Charlotte Weber
                
                
                    12mo, cloth. $1.50
                
                A. S. BARNES & CO.
            
            
            
                
                    "A DELIGHTFUL NOVEL."
                    
                        Philadelphia Ledger.
                    
                
                To Windward
                By Henry C. Rowland (SECIOND EDITION)
                
                    "Written with charm."
                    
                        N. Y. Evening Post.
                    
                
                
                    Crisp and strong, full of breeziness and virile humanity."
                    
                        Brooklyn Eagle.
                    
                
                
                    "A capital story told with a spirit and go that are irresistible. A strong
                        and dramatic novel. Shows literary genius."
                    
                        Newark Advertiser.
                    
                
                With fronttspiece in color by Charlotte
                    Weber
                
                
                    12mo, cloth. $1.50
                
                A. S. BARNES & CO.
            
            
            
                
                    "Wholly delightful and satisfying."
                    
                        Brooklyn Eagle.
                    
                
                The House in the Woods
                By ARTHUR HENRY (SECOND EDITION)
                
                    "A good breezy healthful storythe more readers it has the better."
                    
                        N. Y. Times.
                    
                
                
                    "As fine as a great forest, a great city or a great manit is a pleasure to
                        recommend it to the reader."
                    
                        N. Y. Press.
                    
                
                
                    "A jolly, cheerful, restful story of the kind that makes a dweller in the
                        long to get into the quite woods."
                    
                        N. Y. Sun.
                    
                
                
            
            
                An Island Cabin
                By ARTHUR HENRY (NEW EDITION)
                
                    "A book of individuality and power. The author is a homespun Thoreau,
                        homespun because he writes without the literary pose, and doesn"t leave out the very
                        things we like to know."
                    
                        The World"s Work.
                    
                
                
                    Each, 12mo, cloth. Illustrated $1.50
                
                A. S. BARNES & CO.
            
        
    
