
     ----CITATION---- 
        McCutcheon, George Barr, 1866-1928. Brewster's Millions: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2351
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                Brewster's Millions
                
            
            
            
                
                    BREWSTER'S MILLIONS
                
                BY
                    RICHARD GREAVES
                
                    CHICAGO
                    HERBERT S. STONE & CO.
                    MCMIII
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT 1903 BY HERBERT S. STONE & COMPANY ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                Issued April 20, 1903
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    CHAPTER PAGE
                    
                    I. A Birthday Dinner 1
                        
                    II. Shades of Aladdin 8
                        
                    III. Mrs. and Miss Gray 14
                        
                    IV. A Second Will 24
                        
                    V. The Message from Jones 35
                        
                    VI. Monty Cristo 49
                        
                    VII. A Lesson in Tact 62
                        
                    VIII. The Forelock of Time 68
                        
                    IX. Love and a Prize-fight 76
                        
                    X. The Napoleon of Finance 84
                        
                    XI. Coals of Fire 94
                        
                    XII. Christmas Despair 106
                        
                    XIII. A Friend in Need 114
                        
                    XIV. Mrs. DeMille Entertains 123
                        
                    XV. The Cut Direct 133
                        
                    XVI. In the Sunny South 146
                        
                    XVII. The New Tenderfoot 157
                        
                    XVIII. The Prodigal at Sea 166
                        
                    XIX. One Hero and Another 174
                        
                    XX. Le Roi S'Amuse 181
                        
                    XXI. Fairyland 193
                        
                    XXII. Prince and Peasants 202
                        
                    XXIII. An Offer of Marriage 212
                        
                    XXIV. The Sheik's Strategy 221
                        
                    XXV. The Rescue of Peggy 234
                        
                    XXVI. The Mutiny 243
                        
                    XXVII. A Fair Traitor 252
                        
                    XXVIII. A Catastrophe 263
                        
                    XXIX. The Prodigal's Return 272
                        
                    XXX. The Promise of Thrift 282
                        
                    XXXI. How the Million Disappeared 290
                        
                    XXXII. The Night Before 298
                        
                    XXXIII. The Flight of Jones 306
                        
                    XXXIV. The Last Word 315
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                Brewster's Millions
                
                    I
                    A BIRTHDAY DINNER
                    "The Little Sons of the Rich" were gathered about the long table in
                        Pettingill's studio. There were nine of them present, besides Brewster. They were all
                        young, more or less enterprising, hopeful, and reasonably sure of better things to come. Most of
                        them bore names that meant something in the story of New York. Indeed one of them had remarked,
                        "A man is known by the street that's named after him," and as he was
                        a new member, they called him "Subway."
                    The most popular man in the company was young "Monty" Brewster. He was tall and
                        straight and smooth-shaven. People called him "clean-looking." Older women
                        were interested in him because his father and mother had made a romantic runaway match, which
                        was the talk of the town in the seventies, and had never been forgiven. Worldly  women were interested in him because he was the only grandson of
                        Edwin Peter Brewster, who was many times a millionaire, and Monty was fairly certain to be his
                        heirbarring an absent-minded gift to charity. Younger women were interested for a much more
                        obvious and simple reason: they liked him. Men also took to Monty because he was a good
                        sportsman, a man among men, because he had a decent respect for himself and no great aversion to
                        work.
                    His father and mother had both died while he was still a child, and, as if to make up for his
                        long relentlessness, the grandfather had taken the boy to his own house and had cared for him
                        with what he called affection. After college and some months on the continent, however, Monty
                        had preferred to be independent. Old Mr. Brewster had found him a place in the bank, but beyond
                        this and occasional dinners, Monty asked for and received no favors. It was a question of work,
                        and hard work, and small pay. He lived on his salary because he had to, but he did not resent
                        his grandfather's attitude. He was better satisfied to spend his "weakly
                        salary," as he called it, in his own way than to earn more by dining seven nights a
                        week with an old man who had  forgotten he was ever young. It was
                        less wearing, he said.
                    Among the "Little Sons of the Rich," birthdays were always occasions for
                        feasting. The table was covered with dishes sent up from the French restaurant in the basement.
                        The chairs were pushed back, cigarettes were lighted, men had their knees crossed. Then
                        Pettingill got up.
                    "Gentlemen," he began, "we are here to celebrate the twenty-fifth
                        birthday of Mr. Montgomery Brewster. I ask you all to join me in drinking to his long life and
                        happiness."
                    "No heel taps!" some one shouted. "Brewster! Brewster!" all
                        called at once.
                    "For he's a jolly good fellow, For he's a jolly
                        good fellow!"
                    The sudden ringing of an electric bell cut off this flow of sentiment, and so unusual was the
                        interruption that the ten members straightened up as if jerked into position by a string.
                    "The police!" some one suggested. All faces were turned toward the door. A
                        waiter stood there, uncertain whether to turn the knob or push the bolt.
                    "Damned nuisance!" said Richard Van Winkle. "I want to hear
                        Brewster's speech."
                    
                    "Speech! Speech!" echoed everywhere. Men settled into their places.
                    "Mr. Montgomery Brewster," Pettingill introduced.
                    Again the bell ranglong and loud.
                    "Reinforcements. I'll bet there's a patrol in the street,"
                        remarked Oliver Harrison.
                    "If it's only the police, let them in," said Pettingill. "I
                        thought it was a creditor."
                    The waiter opened the door.
                    "Some one to see Mr. Brewster, sir," he announced.
                    "Is she pretty, waiter?" called McCloud.
                    "He says he is Ellis, from your grandfather's, sir!"
                    "My compliments to Ellis, and ask him to inform my grandfather that it's after
                        banking hours. I'll see him in the morning," said Mr. Brewster, who had
                        reddened under the jests of his companions.
                    "Grandpa doesn't want his Monty to stay out after dark," chuckled
                        Subway Smith.
                    "It was most thoughtful of the old gentleman to have the man call for you with the
                        perambulator," shouted Pettingill above the laughter. "Tell him
                        you've already had your bottle," added McCloud.
                    "Waiter, tell Ellis I'm too busy to be seen,"  commanded Brewster, and as Ellis went down in the elevator a roar followed him.
                    "Now, for Brewster's speech!Brewster!"
                    Monty rose.
                    "Gentlemen, you seem to have forgotten for the moment that I am twenty-five years old
                        this day, and that your remarks have been childish and wholly unbecoming the dignity of my age.
                        That I have arrived at a period of discretion is evident from my choice of friends; that I am
                        entitled to your respect is evident from my grandfather's notorious wealth. You have
                        done me the honor to drink my health and to reassure me as to the inoffensiveness of approaching
                        senility. Now I ask you all to rise and drink to 'The Little Sons of the
                        Rich.' May the Lord love us!"
                    An hour later "Rip" Van Winkle and Subway Smith were singing "Tell Me,
                        Pretty Maiden," to the uncertain accompaniment of Pettingill's violin, when
                        the electric bell again disturbed the company.
                    "For Heaven's sake!" shouted Harrison, who had been singing
                        "With All Thy Faults, I Love Thee Still," to Pettingill's lay figure.
                    "Come home with me, grandson, come home with me now," suggested Subway Smith.
                    "Tell Ellis to go to Halifax," commanded 
                        Montgomery, and again Ellis took the elevator downward. His usually impassive face now wore a
                        look of anxiety, and twice he started to return to the top floor, shaking his head dubiously. At
                        last he climbed into a hansom and reluctantly left the revelers behind. He knew it was a
                        birthday celebration, and it was only half-past twelve in the morning.
                    At three o'clock the elevator made another trip to the top floor and Ellis rushed over
                        to the unfriendly doorbell. This time there was stubborn determination in his face. The singing
                        ceased and a roar of laughter followed the hush of a moment or two.
                    "Come in!" called a hearty voice, and Ellis strode firmly into the studio.
                    "You are just in time for a 'night-cap,' Ellis," cried
                        Harrison, rushing to the footman's side. Ellis, stolidly facing the young man, lifted
                        his hand.
                    "No, thank you, sir," he said, respectfully. "Mr. Montgomery, if
                        you'll excuse me for breaking in, I'd like to give you three messages
                        I've brought here to-night."
                    "You're a faithful old chap," said Subway Smith, thickly.
                        "Hanged if I'd do A. D. T. work till three A. M. for anybody."
                    "I came at ten, Mr. Montgomery, with a  message from Mr.
                        Brewster, wishing you many happy returns of the day, and with a check from him for one thousand
                        dollars. Here's the check, sir. I'll give my messages in the order I received
                        them, sir, if you please. At twelve-thirty o'clock, I came with a message from Dr.
                        Gower, sir, who had been called in"
                    "Called in?" gasped Montgomery, turning white.
                    "Yes, sir, Mr. Brewster had a sudden heart attack at half-past eleven, sir. The doctor
                        sent word by me, sir, that he was at the point of death. My last message"
                    "Good Lord!"
                    "This time I bring a message from Rawles, the butler, asking you to come to Mr.
                        Brewster's house at onceif you can, sir,I mean, if you will, sir," Ellis
                        interjected, apologetically. Then with his gaze directed steadily over the heads of the subdued
                        "Sons" he added, impressively:
                    "Mr. Brewster is dead, sir."
                
                
                
                    II
                    SHADES OF ALADDIN
                    Montgomery Brewster no longer had "prospects." People could not now point him
                        out with the remark that some day he would come into a million or two. He had
                        "realized," as Oliver Harrison would have put it. Two days after his
                        grandfather's funeral a final will and testament was read, and, as was expected, the
                        old banker atoned for the hardships Robert Brewster and his wife had endured by bequeathing one
                        million dollars to their son Montgomery. It was his without a restriction, without an
                        admonition, without an incumbrance. There was not a suggestion as to how it should be handled by
                        the heir. The business training the old man had given him was synonymous with conditions not
                        expressed in the will. The dead man believed that he had drilled into the youth an unmistakable
                        conception of what was expected of him in life; if he failed in these expectations the
                        misfortune would be his alone to bear; a road had been carved out for him and behind him
                        stretched a long line  of guide-posts whose laconic instructions
                        might be ignored but never forgotten. Edwin Peter Brewster evidently made his will with the
                        sensible conviction that it was necessary for him to die before anybody else could possess his
                        money, and that, once dead, it would be folly for him to worry over the way in which
                        beneficiaries might choose to manage their own affairs.
                    The house in Fifth Avenue went to a sister, together with a million or two, and the residue of
                        the estate found kindly disposed relatives who were willing to keep it from going to the Home
                        for Friendless Fortunes. Old Mr. Brewster left his affairs in order. The will nominated Jerome
                        Buskirk as executor, and he was instructed, in conclusion, to turn over to Montgomery Brewster,
                        the day after the will was probated, securities to the amount of one million dollars, provided
                        for in clause four of the instrument. And so it was that on the 26th of September young Mr.
                        Brewster had an unconditional fortune thrust upon him, weighted only with the suggestion of crpe
                        that clung to it.
                    Since his grandfather's death he had been staying at the gloomy old Brewster house in
                        Fifth Avenue, paying but two or three hurried visits to the rooms at Mrs. Gray's where
                        he had  made his home. The gloom of death still darkened the Fifth
                        Avenue place, and there was a stillness, a gentle stealthiness about the house that made him
                        long for more cheerful companionship. He wondered dimly if a fortune always carried the
                        suggestion of tuberoses. The richness and strangeness of it all hung about him unpleasantly. He
                        had had no extravagant affection for the grim old dictator who was dead, yet his grandfather was
                        a man and had commanded his respect. It seemed brutal to leave him out of the reckoningto dance
                        on the grave of the mentor who had treated him well. The attitude of the friends who clapped him
                        on the back, of the newspapers which congratulated him, of the crowd that expected him to
                        rejoice, repelled him. It seemed a tragic comedy, haunted by a severe dead face. He was haunted,
                        too, by memories, and by a sharp regret for his own foolish thoughtlessness. Even the fortune
                        itself weighed upon him at moments with a half-defined melancholy.
                    Yet the situation was not without its compensations. For several days when Ellis called him at
                        seven, he would answer him and thank fortune that he was not required at the bank that morning.
                        The luxury of  another hour of sleep seemed the greatest perquisite
                        of wealth. His morning mail amused him at first, for since the newspapers had published his
                        prosperity to the world he was deluged with letters. Requests for public or private charity were
                        abundant, but most of his correspondents were generous and thought only of his own good. For
                        three days he was in a hopeless state of bewilderment. He was visited by reporters,
                        photographers, and ingenious strangers who benevolently offered to invest his money in
                        enterprises with certified futures. When he was not engaged in declining a gold mine in
                        Colorado, worth five million dollars, marked down to four hundred and fifty, he was avoiding a
                        guileless inventor who offered to sacrifice the secrets of a marvelous device for three hundred
                        dollars, or denying the report that he had been tendered the presidency of the First National
                        Bank.
                    Oliver Harrison stirred him out early one morning and, while the sleepy millionaire was rubbing
                        his eyes and still dodging the bombshell that a dream anarchist had hurled from the pinnacle of
                        a bedpost, urged him in excited, confidential tones to take time by the forelock and prepare for
                        possible breach of  promise suits. Brewster sat on the edge of the
                        bed and listened to diabolical stories of how conscienceless females had fleeced innocent and
                        even godly men of wealth. From the bathroom, between splashes, he retained Harrison by the year,
                        month, day and hour, to stand between him and blackmail.
                    The directors of the bank met and adopted resolutions lamenting the death of their late
                        president, passed the leadership on to the first vice-president and speedily adjourned. The
                        question of admitting Monty to the directory was brought up and discussed, but it was left for
                        Time to settle.
                    One of the directors was Col. Prentiss Drew, "the railroad magnate" of the
                        newspapers. He had shown a fondness for young Mr. Brewster, and Monty had been a frequent
                        visitor at his house. Colonel Drew called him "my dear boy," and Monty called
                        him "a bully old chap," though not in his presence. But the existence of Miss
                        Barbara Drew may have had something to do with the feeling between the two men.
                    As he left the directors' room, on the afternoon of the meeting, Colonel Drew came up to
                        Monty who had notified the officers of the bank that he was leaving.
                    
                    "Ah, my dear boy," said the Colonel, shaking the young man's hand
                        warmly, "now you have a chance to show what you can do. You have a fortune and, with
                        judgment, you ought to be able to triple it. If I can help you in any way, come and see
                        me."
                    Monty thanked him.
                    "You'll be bored to death by the raft of people who have ways to spend your
                        money," continued the Colonel. "Don't listen to any of them. Take
                        your time. You'll have a new chance to make money every day of your life, so go slowly.
                        I'd have been rich years and years ago if I'd had sense enough to run away
                        from promoters. They'll all try to get a whack at your money. Keep your eye open,
                        Monty. The rich young man is always a tempting morsel." After a moment's
                        reflection, he added, "Won't you come out and dine with us to-morrow
                        night?"
                
                
                
                    III
                    MRS. AND MISS GRAY
                    Mrs. Gray lived in Fortieth Street. For years Montgomery Brewster had regarded her quiet,
                        old-fashioned home as his own. The house had once been her grandfather's, and it was
                        one of the pioneers in that part of town. It was there she was born; in its quaint old parlor
                        she was married; and all her girlhood, her brief wedded life, and her widowhood were connected
                        with it. Mrs. Gray and Montgomery's mother had been schoolmates and playmates, and
                        their friendship endured. When old Edwin Peter Brewster looked about for a place to house his
                        orphaned grandson, Mrs. Gray begged him to let her care for the little fellow. He was three
                        years older than her Margaret, and the children grew up as brother and sister. Mr. Brewster was
                        generous in providing for the boy. While he was away at college, spending money in a manner that
                        caused the old gentleman to marvel at his own liberality, Mrs. Gray was well paid for the unused
                        but well-kept apartments, and there never was a murmur of complaint from Edwin  Peter Brewster. He was hard, but he was not niggardly.
                    It had been something of a struggle for Mrs. Gray to make both ends meet. The property in
                        Fortieth Street was her only possession. But little money had come to her at her
                        husband's death, and an unfortunate speculation of his had swept away all that had
                        fallen to her from her father, the late Judge Merriweather. For years she kept the old home
                        unencumbered, teaching French and English until Margaret was well into her teens. The girl was
                        sent to one of the good old boarding-schools on the Hudson and came out well prepared to help
                        her mother in the battle to keep the wolf down and appearances up. Margaret was rich in
                        friendships; and pride alone stood between her and the advantages they offered. Good-looking,
                        bright, and cheerful, she knew no natural privations. With a heart as light and joyous as a May
                        morning, she faced adversity as though it were a pleasure, and no one would have suspected that
                        even for a moment her courage wavered.
                    Now that Brewster had come into his splendid fortune he could conceive no greater delight than to
                        share it with them. To walk into the little drawing-room and serenely lay  large sums before them as their own seemed such a natural proceeding that he
                        refused to see an obstacle. But he knew it was there; the proffer of such a gift to Mrs. Gray
                        would mean a wound to the pride inherited from haughty generations of men sufficient unto
                        themselves. There was a small but troublesome mortgage on the house, a matter of two or three
                        thousand dollars, and Brewster tried to evolve a plan by which he could assume the burden
                        without giving deep and lasting offense. A hundred wild designs had come to him, but they were
                        quickly relegated to the growing heap of subterfuges and pretexts condemned by his tenderness
                        for the pride of these two women who meant so much to him.
                    Leaving the bank, he hastened, by electric car, to Fortieth Street and Broadway, and then walked
                        eagerly off into the street of the numeral. He had not yet come to the point where he felt like
                        scorning the cars, even though a roll of banknotes was tucked snugly away in a pocket that
                        seemed to swell with sudden affluence. Old Hendrick, faithful servitor through two generations,
                        was sweeping the autumn leaves from the sidewalk when Montgomery came up to the house.
                    
                    "Hello, Hendrick," was the young man's cheery greeting. "Nice
                        lot of leaves you have there."
                    "So?" ebbed from Hendrick, who did not even so much as look up from his work.
                        Hendrick was a human clam.
                    "Mrs. Gray in?"
                    A grunt that signified yes.
                    "You're as loquacious as ever, Hendrick."
                    A mere nod.
                    Brewster let himself in with his own latch key, threw his hat on a chair and unceremoniously
                        bolted into the library. Margaret was seated near a window, a book in her lap. The first
                        evidence of unbiased friendship he had seen in days shone in her smile. She took his hand and
                        said simply, "We are glad to welcome the prodigal to his home again."
                    "I remind myself more of the fatted calf."
                    Her first self-consciousness had gone.
                    "I thought of that, but I didn't dare say it," she laughed.
                        "One must be respectful to rich relatives."
                    "Hang your rich relatives, Peggy; if I thought that this money would make any difference
                        I would give it up this minute."
                    "Nonsense, Monty," she said. "How could it make a difference? But you
                        must admit it  is rather startling. The friend of our youth leaves
                        his humble dwelling Saturday night with his salary drawn for two weeks ahead. He returns the
                        following Thursday a dazzling millionaire."
                    "I'm glad I've begun to dazzle, anyway. I thought it might be hard to
                        look the part."
                    "Well, I can't see that you are much changed." There was a suggestion
                        of a quaver in her voice, and the shadows did not prevent him from seeing the quick mist that
                        flitted across her deep eyes.
                    "After all, it's easy work being a millionaire," he explained,
                        "when you've always had million-dollar inclinations."
                    "And fifty-cent possibilities," she added.
                    "Really though, I'll never get as much joy out of my abundant riches as I did
                        out of financial embarrassments."
                    "But think how fine it is, Monty, not ever to wonder where your winter's
                        overcoat is to come from and how long the coal will last, and all that."
                    "Oh, I never wondered about my overcoats; the tailor did the wondering. But I wish I
                        could go on living here just as before. I'd a heap rather live here than at that gloomy
                        place on the avenue."
                    
                    "That sounded like the things you used to say when we played in the garret.
                        You'd a heap sooner do this than thatdon't you remember?"
                    "That's just why I'd rather live here, Peggy. Last night I fell to
                        thinking of that old garret, and hanged if something didn't come up and stick in my
                        throat so tight that I wanted to cry. How long has it been since we played up there? Yes, and
                        how long has it been since I read 'Oliver Optic' to you, lying there in the
                        garret window while you sat with your back against the wall, your blue eyes as big as
                        dollars?"
                    "Oh, dear me, Monty, it was ages agotwelve or thirteen years, at least" she
                        cried, a soft light in her eyes.
                    "I'm going up there this afternoon to see what the place is like," he
                        said eagerly. "And, Peggy, you must come too. Maybe I can find one of those Optic
                        books, and we'll be young again."
                    "Just for old time's sake," she said impulsively.
                        "You'll stay for luncheon, too."
                    "I'll have to be at theno, I won't, either. Do you know, I was
                        thinking I had to be at the bank at twelve-thirty to let Mr. Perkins go out for something to
                        eat? The millionaire habit  isn't so firmly fixed as I
                        supposed." After a moment's pause, in which his growing seriousness changed
                        the atmosphere, he went on, haltingly, uncertain of his position: "The nicest thing
                        about having all this money is thatthatwe won't have to deny ourselves anything after
                        this." It did not sound very tactful, now that it was out, and he was compelled to
                        scrutinize rather intently a familiar portrait in order to maintain an air of careless
                        assurance. She did not respond to this venture, but he felt that she was looking directly into
                        his sorely-tried brain. "We'll do any amount of decorating about the house
                        andand you know that furnace has been giving us a lot of trouble for two or three
                        years" he was pouring out ruthlessly, when her hand fell gently on his own and she
                        stood straight and tall before him, an odd look in her eyes.
                    "Don'tplease don't go on, Monty," she said very gently but
                        without wavering. "I know what you mean. You are good and very thoughtful, Monty, but
                        you really must not."
                    "Why, what's mine is yours" he began
                    "I know you are generous, Monty, and I know you have a heart. You want us toto take some
                        of your money,"it was not easy to say it, and as for Monty, he could only look at  the floor. "We cannot, Monty, dear,you must never speak
                        of it again. Mamma and I had a feeling that you would do it. But don't you see,even
                        from you it is an offer of help, and it hurts."
                    "Don't talk like that, Peggy," he implored.
                    "It would break her heart if you offered to give her money in that way. She'd
                        hate it, Monty. It is foolish perhaps, but you know we can't take your money."
                    "I thought youthat youoh, this knocks all the joy out of it," he burst out
                        desperately.
                    "Dear Monty!"
                    "Let's talk it over, Peggy; you don't understand" he began,
                        dashing at what he thought would be a break in her resolve.
                    "Don't!" she commanded, and in her blue eyes was the hot flash he had
                        felt once or twice before.
                    He rose and walked across the floor, back and forth again, and then stood before her, a smile on
                        his lipsa rather pitiful smile, but still a smile. There were tears in her eyes as she looked at
                        him.
                    "It's a confounded puritanical prejudice, Peggy," he said in futile
                        protest, "and you know it."
                    'You have not seen the letters that came  for you this
                        morning. They're on the table over there," she replied, ignoring him.
                    He found the letters and resumed his seat in the window, glancing half-heartedly over the
                        contents of the envelopes. The last was from Grant & Ripley, attorneys, and even from
                        his abstraction it brought a surprised "By Jove!" He read it aloud to
                        Margaret.
                    September 30.
                    MONTGOMERY BREWSTER, ESQ.,
                    New York.
                    Dear Sir:We are in receipt of a communication from Mr. Swearengen Jones of Montana, conveying the
                        sad intelligence that your uncle, James T. Sedgwick, died on the 24th inst. at M Hospital in
                        Portland, after a brief illness. Mr. Jones by this time has qualified in Montana as the executor
                        of your uncle's will and has retained us as his eastern representatives. He incloses a
                        copy of the will, in which you are named as sole heir, with conditions attending. Will you call
                        at our office this afternoon, if it is convenient? It is important that you know the contents of
                        the instrument at once.
                    Respectfully yours,
                    GRANT & RIPLEY.
                    For a moment there was only amazement in the air. Then a faint bewildered smile appeared in
                        Monty's face, and reflected itself in the girl's.
                    "Who is your Uncle James?" she asked.
                    "I've never heard of him."
                    
                    "You must go to Grant & Ripley's at once, of course.'
                    "Have you forgotten, Peggy," he replied, with a hint of vexation in his voice,
                        "that we are to read 'Oliver Optic' this afternoon?"
                
                
                
                    IV
                    A SECOND WILL
                    "You are both fortunate and unfortunate, Mr. Brewster," said Mr. Grant, after
                        the young man had dropped into a chair in the office of Grant & Ripley the next day.
                        Montgomery wore a slightly bored expression, and it was evident that he took little interest in
                        the will of James T. Sedgwick. From far back in the recesses of memory he now recalled this
                        long-lost brother of his mother. As a very small child he had seen his Uncle James upon the few
                        occasions which brought him to the home of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Brewster. But the young man had
                        dined at the Drews the night before and Barbara had had more charm for him than usual. It was of
                        her that he was thinking when he walked into the office of Swearengen Jones's lawyers.
                    "The truth is, Mr. Grant, I'd completely forgotten the existence of an
                        uncle," he responded.
                    "It is not surprising," said Mr. Grant,  genially.
                        "Everyone who knew him in New York nineteen or twenty years ago believed him to be
                        dead. He left the city when you were a very small lad, going to Australia, I think. He was off
                        to seek his fortune, and he needed it pretty badly when he started out. This letter from Mr.
                        Jones comes like a message from the dead. Were it not that we have known Mr. Jones for a long
                        time, handling affairs of considerable importance for him, I should feel inclined to doubt the
                        whole story. It seems that your uncle turned up in Montana about fifteen years ago and there
                        formed a stanch friendship with old Swearengen Jones, one of the richest men in the far West.
                        Sedgwick's will was signed on the day of his death, September 24th, and it was quite
                        natural that Mr. Jones should be named as his executor. That is how we became interested in the
                        matter, Mr. Brewster."
                    "I see," said Montgomery, somewhat puzzled. "But why do you say that I
                        am both fortunate and unfortunate?"
                    "The situation is so remarkable that you'll consider that a mild way of putting
                        it when you've heard everything. I think you were told, in our note of yesterday, that
                        you are the sole heir. Well, it may surprise you to learn  that
                        James Sedgwick died possessed of an estate valued at almost seven million dollars."
                    Montgomery Brewster sat like one petrified, staring blankly at the old lawyer, who could say
                        startling things in a level voice.
                    "He owned gold mines and ranches in the Northwest and there is no question as to their
                        value. Mr. Jones, in his letter to us, briefly outlines the history of James Sedgwick from the
                        time he landed in Montana. He reached there in 1885 from Australia, and he was worth thirty or
                        forty thousand dollars at the time. Within five years he was the owner of a huge ranch, and
                        scarcely had another five years passed before he was part-owner of three rich gold mines.
                        Possessions accumulated rapidly; everything he touched turned to gold. He was shrewd, careful,
                        and thrifty, and his money was handled with all the skill of a Wall Street financier. At the
                        time of his death, in Portland, he did not owe a dollar in the world. His property is absolutely
                        unencumberedsafe and sound as a government bond. It's rather overwhelming,
                        isn't it?" the lawyer concluded, taking note of Brewster's
                        expression.
                    "And hehe left everything to me?"
                    "With a proviso."
                    
                    "Ah!"
                    "I have a copy of the will. Mr. Ripley and I are the only persons in New York who at
                        present know its contents. You, I am sure, after hearing it, will not divulge them without the
                        most careful deliberation."
                    Mr. Grant drew the document from a pigeonhole in his desk, adjusted his glasses and prepared to
                        read. Then, as though struck by a sudden thought, he laid the paper down and turned once more to
                        Brewster.
                    "It seems that Sedgwick never married. Your mother was his sister and his only known
                        relative of close connection. He was a man of most peculiar temperament, but in full possession
                        of all mental faculties. You may find this will to be a strange document, but I think Mr. Jones,
                        the executor, explains any mystery that may be suggested by its terms. While Sedgwick's
                        whereabouts were unknown to his old friends in New York, it seems that he was fully posted on
                        all that was going on here. He knew that you were the only child of your mother and therefore
                        his only nephew. He sets forth the dates of your mother's marriage, of your birth, of
                        the death of Robert Brewster and of Mrs. Brewster. He also was aware of the fact that old Edwin
                        Peter Brewster  intended to bequeath a large fortune to youand
                        thereby hangs a tale. Sedgwick was proud. When he lived in New York, he was regarded as the kind
                        of man who never forgave the person who touched roughly upon his pride. You know, of course,
                        that your father married Miss Sedgwick in the face of the most bitter opposition on the part of
                        Edwin Brewster. The latter refused to recognize her as his daughter, practically disowned his
                        son, and heaped the harshest kind of calumny upon the Sedgwicks. It was commonly believed about
                        town that Jim Sedgwick left the country three or four years after this marriage for the sole
                        reason that he and Edwin Brewster could not live in the same place. So deep was his hatred of
                        the old man that he fled to escape killing him. It was known that upon one occasion he visited
                        the office of his sister's enemy for the purpose of slaying him, but something
                        prevented. He carried that hatred to the grave, as you will see."
                    Montgomery Brewster was trying to gather himself together from within the fog which made himself
                        and the world unreal.
                    "I believe I'd like to have you read this extraorthe will, Mr. Grant,"
                        he said, with an effort to hold his nerves in leash.
                    
                    Mr. Grant cleared his throat and began in his still voice. Once he looked up to find his listener
                        eager, and again to find him grown indifferent. He wondered dimly if this were a pose.
                    In brief, the last will of James T. Sedgwick bequeathed everything, real and personal, of which
                        he died possessed, to his only nephew, Montgomery Brewster of New York, son of Robert and Louise
                        Sedgwick Brewster. Supplementing this all-important clause there was a set of conditions
                        governing the final disposition of the estate. The most extraordinary of these conditions was
                        the one which required the heir to be absolutely penniless upon the twenty-sixth anniversary of
                        his birth, September 23d.
                    The instrument went into detail in respect to this supreme condition. It set forth that
                        Montgomery Brewster was to have no other worldly possession than the clothes which covered him
                        on the September day named. He was to begin that day without a penny to his name, without a
                        single article of jewelry, furniture or finance that he could call his own or could thereafter
                        reclaim. At nine o'clock, New York time, on the morning of September 23d, the executor,
                        under the provisions of the will,  was to make over and transfer to
                        Montgomery Brewster all of the moneys, lands, bonds, and interests mentioned in the inventory
                        which accompanied the will. In the event that Montgomery Brewster had not, in every particular,
                        complied with the requirements of the will, to the full satisfaction of the said executor,
                        Swearengen Jones, the estate was to be distributed among certain institutions of charity
                        designated in the instrument. Underlying this imperative injunction of James Sedgwick was
                        plainly discernible the motive that prompted it. In almost so many words he declared that his
                        heir should not receive the fortune if he possessed a single penny that had come to him, in any
                        shape or form, from the man he hated, Edwin Peter Brewster. While Sedgwick could not have known
                        at the time of his death that the banker had bequeathed one million dollars to his grandson, it
                        was more than apparent that he expected the young man to be enriched liberally by his enemy. It
                        was to preclude any possible chance of the mingling of his fortune with the smallest portion of
                        Edwin P. Brewster's that James Sedgwick, on his deathbed, put his hand to this
                        astonishing instrument.
                    There was also a clause in which he undertook  to dictate the
                        conduct of Montgomery Brewster during the year leading up to his twenty-sixth anniversary. He
                        required that the young man should give satisfactory evidence to the executor that he was
                        capable of managing his affairs shrewdly and wisely,that he possessed the ability to add to the
                        fortune through his own enterprise; that he should come to his twenty-sixth anniversary with a
                        fair name and a record free from anything worse than mild forms of dissipation; that his habits
                        be temperate; that he possess nothing at the end of the year which might be regarded as a
                        "visible or invisible asset"; that he make no endowments; that he give
                        sparingly to charity; that he neither loan nor give away money, for fear that it might be
                        restored to him later; that he live on the principle which inspires a man to "get his
                        money's worth," be the expenditure great or small. As these conditions were
                        prescribed for but a single year in the life of the heir, it was evident that Mr. Sedgwick did
                        not intend to impose any restrictions after the property had gone into his hands.
                    "How do you like it?" asked Mr. Grant, as he passed the will to Brewster.
                    The latter took the paper and glanced over  it with the air of one
                        who had heard but had not fully grasped its meaning.
                    "It must be a joke, Mr. Grant," he said, still groping with difficulty through
                        the fog.
                    "No, Mr. Brewster, it is absolutely genuine. Here is a telegram from the Probate Court
                        in Sedgwick's home county, received in response to a query from us. It says that the
                        will is to be filed for probate and that Mr. Sedgwick was many times a millionaire. This
                        statement, which he calls an inventory, enumerates his holdings and their value, and the footing
                        shows $6,345,000 in round numbers. The investments, you see, are gilt-edged. There is not a bad
                        penny in all those millions."
                    "Well, it is rather staggering, isn't it?" said Montgomery, passing
                        his hand over his forehead. He was beginning to comprehend.
                    "In more ways than one. What are you going to do about it?"
                    "Do about it?" in surprise. "Why, it's mine, isn't
                        it?"
                    "It is not yours until next September," the lawyer quietly said.
                    "Well, I fancy I can wait," said Brewster with a smile that cleared the air.
                    "But, my dear fellow, you are already the possessor of a million. Do you forget that  you are expected to be penniless a year from now?"
                    "Wouldn't you exchange a million for seven millions, Mr. Grant?"
                    "But let me inquire how you purpose doing it?" asked Mr. Grant, mildly.
                    "Why, by the simple process of destruction. Don't you suppose I can get rid of
                        a million in a year? Great Scott, who wouldn't do it! All I have to do is to cut a few
                        purse strings and there is but one natural conclusion. I don't mind being a pauper for
                        a few hours on the 23d of next September."
                    "That is your plan, then?"
                    "Of course. First I shall substantiate all that this will sets forth. When I am assured
                        that there can be no possibility of mistake in the extent of this fortune and my undisputed
                        claim. I'll take steps to get rid of my grandfather's million in short
                        order." Brewster's voice rang true now. The zest of life was coming back.
                    Mr. Grant leaned forward slowly and his intent, penetrating gaze served as a check to the young
                        fellow's enthusiasm.
                    "I admire and approve the sagacity which urges you to exchange a paltry million for a
                        fortune, but it seems to me that you are forgetting  the
                        conditions," he said, slowly. "Has it occurred to you that will be no easy
                        task to spend a million dollars without in some way violating the restrictions in your
                        uncle's will, thereby losing both fortunes?"
                
                
                
                    V
                    THE MESSAGE FROM JONES
                    A new point of view gradually came to Brewster. All his life had been spent in wondering how to
                        get enough money to pay his bills, and it had not occurred to him that it might be as difficult
                        to spend as to acquire wealth. The thought staggered him for a moment. Then he cried
                        triumphantly, "I can decline to accept grandfather's million."
                    "You cannot decline to accept what is already yours. I understand that the money has
                        been paid to you by Mr. Buskirk. You have a million dollars, Mr. Brewster, and it cannot be
                        denied."
                    "You are right," agreed Montgomery, dejectedly. "Really, Mr. Grant,
                        this proposition is too much for me. If you aren't required to give an immediate
                        answer, I want to think it over. It sounds like a dream."
                    "It is no dream, Mr. Brewster," smiled the lawyer. "You are face to
                        face with an amazing reality. Come in to-morrow morning and see me again. Think it over, study
                        it out.  Remember the conditions of the will and the conditions
                        that confront you. In the meantime, I shall write to Mr. Jones, the executor, and learn from him
                        just what he expects you to do in order to carry out his own conception of the terms of your
                        uncle's will."
                    "Don't write, Mr. Grant; telegraph. And ask him to wire his reply. A year is
                        not very long in an affair of this kind." A moment later he added, "Damn these
                        family feuds! Why couldn't Uncle James have relented a bit? He brings endless trouble
                        on my innocent head, just because of a row before I was born."
                    "He was a strange man. As a rule, one does not carry grudges quite so far. But that is
                        neither here nor there. His will is law in this case."
                    "Suppose I succeed in spending all but a thousand dollars before the 23d of next
                        September! I'd lose the seven millions and be the next thing to a pauper. That
                        wouldn't be quite like getting my money's worth."
                    "It is a problem, my boy. Think it over very seriously before you come to a decision,
                        one way or the other. In the meantime, we can establish beyond a doubt the accuracy of this
                        inventory."
                    "By all means, go ahead, and please urge  Mr. Jones not to
                        be too hard on me. I believe I'll risk it if the restrictions are not too severe. But
                        if Jones has puritanical instincts, I might as well give up hope and be satisfied with what I
                        have."
                    "Mr. Jones is very far from what you'd call puritanical, but he is intensely
                        practical and clear-headed. He will undoubtedly require you to keep an expense account and to
                        show some sort of receipt for every dollar you disburse."
                    "Good Lord! Itemize?"
                    "In a general way, I presume."
                    "I'll have to employ an army of spendthrifts to devise ways and means for
                        profligacy."
                    "You forget the item which restrains you from taking anybody into your confidence
                        concerning this matter. Think it over. It may not be so difficult after a night's
                        sleep."
                    "If it isn't too difficult to get the night's sleep."
                    All the rest of the day Brewster wandered about as one in a dream. He was pre-occupied and
                        puzzled, and more than one of his old associates, receiving a distant nod in passing,
                        resentfully concluded that his wealth was beginning to change him. His brain was so full of
                        statistics, figures, and computations that it whirled dizzily, and once he narrowly  escaped being run down by a cable car. He dined alone at a small
                        French restaurant in one of the side streets. The waiter marveled at the amount of black coffee
                        the young man consumed and looked hurt when he did not touch the quail and lettuce.
                    That night the little table in his room at Mrs. Gray's was littered with scraps of pad
                        paper, each covered with an incomprehensible maze of figures. After dinner he had gone to his
                        own rooms, forgetting that he lived on Fifth Avenue. Until long after midnight he smoked and
                        calculated and dreamed. For the first time the immensity of that million thrust itself upon him.
                        If on that very day, October the first, he were to begin the task of spending it he would have
                        but three hundred and fifty-seven days in which to accomplish the end. Taking the round sum of
                        one million dollars as a basis, it was an easy matter to calculate his average daily
                        disbursement. The situation did not look so utterly impossible until he held up the little sheet
                        of paper and ruefully contemplated the result of that simple problem in mathematics.
                    It meant an average daily expenditure of $2,801.12 for nearly a year, and even then there would
                        be sixteen cents left over, for, in proving  the result of his
                        rough sum in division, he could account for but $999,999.84. Then it occurred to him that his
                        money would be drawing interest at the bank.
                    "But for each day's $2,801.12, I am getting seven times as much," he
                        soliloquized, as he finally got into bed. "That means $19,607.84 a day, a clear profit
                        of $16,806.72. That's pretty goodyes, too good. I wonder if the bank couldn't
                        oblige me by not charging interest."
                    The figures kept adding and subtracting themselves as he dozed off, and once during the night he
                        dreamed that Swearengen Jones had sentenced him to eat a million dollars' worth of game
                        and salad at the French restaurant. He awoke with the consciousness that he had cried aloud,
                        "I can do it, but a year is not very long in an affair of this kind."
                    It was nine o'clock when Brewster finally rose, and after his tub he felt ready to cope
                        with any problem, even a substantial breakfast. A message had come to him from Mr. Grant of
                        Grant & Ripley, announcing the receipt of important dispatches from Montana, and asking
                        him to luncheon at one. He had time to spare, and as Margaret and Mrs. Gray had gone out, he
                        telephoned Ellis to take his horse to  the entrance to the park at
                        once. The crisp autumn air was perfect for his ride, and Brewster found a number of smart people
                        already riding and driving in the park. His horse was keen for a canter and he had reached the
                        obelisk before he drew rein. As he was about to cross the carriage road he was nearly run down
                        by Miss Drew in her new French automobile.
                    "I beg your pardon," she cried. "You're the third person
                        I've run into, so you see I'm not discriminating against you."
                    "I should be flattered even to be run down by you."
                    "Very well, then, look out." And she started the machine as if to charge him.
                        She stopped in time, and said with a laugh, "Your gallantry deserves a reward.
                        Wouldn't you rather send your horse home and come for a ride with me?"
                    "My man is waiting at Fifty-ninth Street. If you'll come that far,
                        I'll go with pleasure."
                    Monty had merely a society acquaintance with Miss Drew. He had met her at dinners and dances as
                        he had a host of other girls, but she had impressed him more than the others. Something
                        indescribable took place every time their eyes met. Monty had often wondered  just what that something meant, but he had always realized that it
                        had in it nothing of platonic affection.
                    "If I didn't have to meet her eyes," he had said to himself,
                        "I could go on discussing even politics with her, but the moment she looks at me I know
                        she can see what I'm thinking about." From the first they considered
                        themselves very good friends and after their third meeting it seemed perfectly natural that they
                        should call one another by their first names. Monty knew he was treading on dangerous ground. It
                        never occurred to him to wonder what Barbara might think of him. He took it as a matter of
                        course that she must feel more than friendly toward him. As they rode through the maze of
                        carriages, they bowed frequently to friends as they passed. They were conscious that some of the
                        women, noticeably old Miss Dexter, actually turned around and gazed at them.
                    "Aren't you afraid people will talk about us?" asked Monty with a
                        laugh.
                    "Talk about our riding together in the park? It's just as safe here as it would
                        be in Fifth Avenue. Besides, who cares? I fancy we can stand it."
                    "You're a thoroughbred, Barbara. I simply 
                        didn't want you talked about. When I go too far, say the word and drop me.'
                    "I have a luncheon at two, but until then we have our ride."
                    Monty gasped and looked at his watch. "Five minutes to one," he cried. The
                        matter of his engagement with the attorney had quite escaped him. In the exhilaration of Miss
                        Drew's companionship he had forgotten even Uncle James's millions.
                    "I've got a date at one that means life and death to me. Would you mind taking
                        me down to the nearest Elevatedorhere, let me run it."
                    Almost before Barbara was aware of what was happening they had changed places and the machine,
                        under Monty's guidance, was tearing over the ground.
                    "Of all the casual people," said the girl, by no means unequal to the
                        excitement, "I believe you're kidnaping me."
                    But when she saw the grim look on Monty's face and one policeman after another warned
                        him she became seriously alarmed. "Monty Brewster, this pace is positively
                        dangerous."
                    "Perhaps it is," he responded, "but if they haven't sense
                        enough to keep out of the  way, they shouldn't kick if
                        they get run over."
                    "I don't mean the people or the automobiles or traps or trees or monuments,
                        Monty; I mean you and me. I know we'll either be killed or arrested."
                    "This isn't anything to the gait I'll be going if everything turns out
                        as I expect. Don't be worried, Babs. Besides it's one now. Lord, I
                        didn't dream it was so late."
                    "Is your appointment so important?" she asked, hanging on.
                    "Well, I should say it is, andlook outyou blooming idiot! Do you want to get
                        killed?" The last remark was hurled back at an indignant pedestrian who had escaped
                        destruction by the merest chance.
                    "Here we are," he said, as they drew up beside the entrance to the Elevated.
                        "Thanks awfully,you're a corker,sorry to leave you this way. I'll
                        tell you all about it later. You're a dear to help me keep my appointment."
                    "Seems to me you helped yourself," she cried after him as he darted up the
                        steps. "Come up for tea some day and tell me who the lady is."
                    After he had gone Miss Drew turned to her chauffeur who was in the tonneau. Then she  laughed unrestrainedly, and the faintest shadow of a grin stole
                        over the man's face.
                    "Beg pardon, Miss," he said, "but I'd back Mr. Brewster
                        against Fournier any day."
                    Only half an hour late, Brewster entered the office of Messrs. Grant and Ripley, flushed, eager,
                        and unconscious of the big splotch of mud that decorated his cheek.
                    "Awfully sorry to have kept you waiting," he apologized.
                    "Sherlock Holmes would say that you had been driving, Mr. Brewster," said Mr.
                        Ripley, shaking the young man's hand.
                    "He would miss it, Mr. Ripley. I've been flying. What have you heard from
                        Montana?" He could no longer check the impatient question, which came out so suddenly
                        that the attorneys laughed irresistibly, Brewster joining them an instant later. They laid
                        before him a half dozen telegrams, responses from bankers, lawyers, and mine-operators in
                        Montana. These messages established beyond doubt the extent of James T. Sedgwick's
                        wealth; it was reported to be even greater than shown by the actual figures.
                    "And what does Mr. Jones say?" demanded Montgomery.
                    "His reply resembles a press dispatch. He  has tried to
                        make himself thoroughly clear, and if there is anything left unsaid it is past our
                        comprehension. I am sorry to inform you, though, that he has paid the telegraph
                        charges," said Mr. Grant, smiling broadly.
                    "Is he rational about it?" asked Montgomery, nervously.
                    Mr. Grant gave his partner a quick, significant glance and then drew from his desk the voluminous
                        telegram from Swearengen Jones. It was as follows:
                    October 2.
                    GRANT & RIPLEY,
                    Yucatan Building, New York.
                    I am to be sole referee in this matter. You are retained as my agents, heir to report to me
                        through you weekly. One desire of uncle was to forestall grandfather's bequest. I shall
                        respect that desire. Enforce terms rigidly. He was my best friend and trusted me with
                        disposition of all this money. Shall attend to it sacredly. Heir must get rid of money left to
                        him in given time. Out of respect to memory of uncle he must take no one into his confidence.
                        Don't want world to think S. was damned fool. He wasn't. Here are rules I want
                        him to work under: 1. No reckless gambling. 2. No idiotic Board of Trade speculation. 3. No
                        endowments to institutions of any character, because their memory would be an invisible asset.
                        4. No indiscriminate giving away of funds. By that I don't mean him to be stingy. I
                        hate a stingy man and so did J. T. S. 5. No more than  ordinary
                        dissipation. I hate a saint. So did J. T. S. And both of us sowed an oat or two. 6. No excessive
                        donations to charity. If he gives as other millionaires do I'll let it go at that.
                        Don't believe charity should be spoiled by indulgence. It is not easy to spend a
                        million, and I won't be unreasonable with him. Let him spend it freely, but not
                        foolishly, and get his money's worth out of it. If he does that I'll consider
                        him a good business man. I regard it foolish to tip waiter more than dollar and car porter does
                        not deserve over five. He does not earn more than one. If heir wants to try for this big stake
                        he'd better begin quick, because he might slip up if he waits until day of judgment.
                        It's less than year off. Luck to him. Will write you more fully.
                    S. JONES.
                    "Write more fully!" echoed Montgomery. "What can there be left to
                        write about?"
                    "He is explicit," said the attorney, "but it is best to know all the
                        conditions before you decide. Have you made up your mind?"
                    Brewster sat silent for a long time, staring hard at the floor. A great struggle was going on in
                        his mind.
                    "It's a gamble, and a big one," he said at last, squaring his
                        shoulders, "but I'll take it. I don't want to appear disloyal to my
                        grandfather, but I think that even he would advise me to accept. Yes, you may write Mr. Jones
                        that I accept the chance."
                    The attorneys complimented him on his  nerve and wished him success.
                        Brewster turned with a smile.
                    "I'll begin by asking what you think a reasonable fee for an attorney in a case
                        of this kind. I hope you will act for me."
                    "You don't want to spend it all in a lump, do you?" asked Mr. Grant,
                        smiling. "We can hardly act as counsel for both you and Mr. Jones."
                    "But I must have a lawyer, and the will limits the number of my confidant. What am I to
                        do?"
                    "We will consult Mr. Jones in regard to the question. It is not regular, you see, but I
                        apprehend no legal difficulties. We cannot accept fees from both sides, however," said
                        Mr. Grant.
                    "But I want attorney who are willing to help me. It won't be a help if you
                        decline to accept my money."
                    "We'll resort to arbitration," laughed Ripley.
                    Before night Montgomery Brewster began a career that would have startled the world had the facts
                        been known. With true loyalty to the "Little Sons of the Rich," he asked his
                        friends to dinner and opened their eyes.
                    "Champagne!" cried Harrison, as they were  seated
                        at table. "I can't remember the last time I had champagne."
                    "Naturally," laughed "Subway" Smith. "You
                        couldn't remember anything after that."
                    As the dinner progressed Brewster explained that he intended to double his fortune within a year.
                        "I'm going to have some fun, too," he said, "and you boys
                        are to help me."
                    "Nopper" Harrison was employed as "superintendent of
                        affairs"; Elon Gardner as financial secretary; Joe Bragdon as private secretary;
                        "Subway" Smith as counsel, and there were places in view for the other
                        members.
                    "I want the smartest apartment you can find, Nopper," he commanded.
                        "Don't stop at expense. Have Pettingill redecorate it from top to bottom. Get
                        the best servants you can find. I'm going to live, Nopper, and hang the
                        consequences."
                
                
                
                    VI
                    MONTY CRISTO
                    A fortnight later Montgomery Brewster had a new home. In strict obedience to his chief's
                        command, "Nopper" Harrison had leased until the September following one of the
                        most expensive apartments to be found in New York City. The rental was $23,000, and the shrewd
                        financial representative had saved $1,000 for his employer by paying the sum in advance. But
                        when he reported this bit of economy to Mr. Brewster he was surprised that it brought forth a
                        frown. "I never saw a man who had less sense about money," muttered
                        "Nopper" to himself. "Why, he spends it like a Chicago millionaire
                        trying to get into New York society. If it were not for the rest of us he'd be a pauper
                        in six months."
                    Paul Pettingill, to his own intense surprise and, it must be said, consternation, was engaged to
                        redecorate certain rooms according to a plan suggested by the tenant. The rising young artist,
                        in a great flurry of excitement, agreed to do the work for $500, and then  blushed like a schoolgirl when he was informed by the practical Brewster that the
                        paints and material for one room alone would cost twice as much.
                    "Petty, you have no more idea of business than a goat," criticized Montgomery,
                        and Paul lowered his head in humble confession. "That man who calcimines your studio
                        could figure on a piece of work with more intelligence than you reveal. I'll pay
                        $2,500. It's only a fair price, and I can't afford anything cheap in this
                        place."
                    "At this rate you won't be able to afford anything," said Pettingill
                        to himself.
                    And so it was that Pettingill and a corps of decorators soon turned the rooms into a confusion of
                        scaffoldings and paint buckets, out of which in the end emerged something very distinguished. No
                        one had ever thought Pettingill deficient in ideas, and this was his opportunity. The only
                        drawback was the time limit which Brewster so remorselessly fixed. Without that he felt that he
                        could have done something splendid in the way of decorative panelssomething that would make even
                        the glory of Puvis de Chavannes turn pallid. With it he was obliged to curb his turbulent ideas,
                        and he decided that a rich simplicity was the proper note. The result was gorgeous, but  not too gorgeous,it had depth and distinction.
                    Elated and eager, he assisted Brewster in selecting furniture and hangings for each room, but he
                        did not know that his employer was making conditional purchases of everything. Mr. Brewster had
                        agreements with all the dealers to the effect that they were to buy everything back at a fair
                        price, if he desired to give up his establishment within a year. He adhered to this rule in all
                        cases that called for the purchase outright of substantial necessities. The bump of
                        calculativeness in Monty Brewster's head was growing to abnormal proportions.
                    In retaining his rooms at Mrs. Gray's, he gave the flimsy but pathetic excuse that he
                        wanted a place in which he might find occasional seasons of peace and quiet. When Mrs. Gray
                        protested against this useless bit of extravagance, his grief was so obviously genuine that her
                        heart was touched, and there was a deep, fervent joy in her soul. She loved this fair-faced boy,
                        and tears of happiness came to her eyes when she was given this new proof of his loyalty and
                        devotion. His rooms were kept for him just as if he had expected to occupy them every day and
                        every night, not-withstanding  the luxurious apartments he was to
                        maintain elsewhere. The Oliver Optic books still lay in the attic, all tattered and torn, but to
                        Margaret the embodiment of prospective riches, promises of sweet hours to come. She knew Monty
                        well enough to feel that he would not forget the dark little attic of old for all the splendors
                        that might come with the new dispensation.
                    There was no little surprise when he sent out invitations for a large dinner. His grandfather had
                        been dead less than a month, and society was somewhat scandalized by the plain symptoms of
                        disrespect he was showing. No one had expected him to observe a prolonged season of mourning,
                        but that he should disregard the formalities completely was rather shocking. Some of the older
                        people, who had not long to live and who had heirs-apparent, openly denounced his heartlessness.
                        It was not very gratifying to think of what might be in store for them if all memories were as
                        short as Brewster's. Old Mrs. Ketchell changed her will, and two nephews were cut off
                        entirely; a very modest and impecunious grandson of Joseph Garrity also was to sustain a severe
                        change of fortune in the near future, if the cards spoke correctly. Judge Van Woort, who was not
                             expected to live through the night, got better immediately
                        after hearing some one in the sick-room whisper that Montgomery Brewster was to give a big
                        dinner. Naturally, the heirs-to-be, condemned young Brewster in no uncertain terms.
                    Nevertheless, the dinner to be given by the grandson of old Edwin Peter Brewster was the talk of
                        the town, and not one of the sixty invited guests could have been persuaded to miss it. Reports
                        as to its magnificence were abroad long before the night set for the dinner. One of them had it
                        that it was to cost $3,000 a plate. From that figure the legendary price receded to a mark as
                        low as $500. Montgomery would have been only too glad to pay $3,000 or more, but some mysterious
                        force conveyed to his mind a perfect portrait of Swearengen Jones in the act of putting down a
                        large black mark against him, and he forbore.
                    "I wish I knew whether I had to abide by the New York or the Montana standard of
                        extravagance," Brewster said to himself. "I wonder if he ever sees the New
                        York papers."
                    Late each night the last of the grand old Brewster family went to his bedroom where, after
                        dismissing his man, he settled down at his desk, with a pencil and a pad of paper.  Lighting the candles, which were more easily managed, he found,
                        than lamps, and much more costly, he thoughtfully and religiously calculated his expenses for
                        the day. "Nopper" Harrison and Elon Gardner had the receipts for all moneys
                        spent, and Joe Bragdon was keeping an official report, but the "chief," as
                        they called him, could not go to sleep until he was satisfied in his own mind that he was
                        keeping up the average. For the first two weeks it had been easyin fact, he seemed to have quite
                        a comfortable lead in the race. He had spent almost $100,000 in the fortnight, but he realized
                        that the greater part of it had gone into the yearly and not the daily expense-account. He kept
                        a "profit and loss" entry in his little private ledger, but it was not like
                        any other account of the kind in the world. What the ordinary merchant would have charged to
                        "loss" he jotted down on the "profit" side, and he was
                        continually looking for opportunities to swell the total.
                    Rawles, who had been his grandfather's butler since the day after he landed in New York,
                        came over to the grandson's establishment, greatly to the wrath and confusion of the
                        latter's Aunt Emmeline. The chef came from Paris and his name was Detuit. Ellis, the
                        footman,  also found a much better berth with Monty than he had had
                        in the house on the avenue. Aunt Emmeline never forgave her nephew for these base and disturbing
                        acts of treachery, as she called them.
                    One of Monty's most extraordinary financial feats grew out of the purchase of a $14,000
                        automobile. He blandly admitted to "Nopper" Harrison and the two secretaries
                        that he intended to use it to practice with only, and that as soon as he learned how to run an
                        "auto" as it should be run he expected to buy a good, sensible, durable
                        machine for $7,000.
                    His staff officers frequently put their heads together to devise ways and means of curbing
                        Monty's reckless extravagance. They were worried.
                    "He's like a sailor in port," protested Harrison. "Money is
                        no object if he wants a thing, anddamn ithe seems to want everything he sees."
                    "It won't last long," Gardner said, reassuringly. "Like his
                        namesake, Monte Cristo, the world is his just now and he wants to enjoy it."
                    "He wants to get rid of it, it seems to me."
                    Whenever they reproached Brewster about the matter he disarmed them by saying, "Now that
                        I've got money I mean to give my friends  a good time.
                        Just what you'd do if you were in my place. What's money for,
                        anyway?"
                    "But this $3,000-a-plate dinner"
                    'I'm going to give a dozen of them, and even then I can't pay my just
                        debts. For years I've been entertained at people's houses and have been taken
                        cruising on their yachts. They have always been bully to me, and what have I ever done for them?
                        Nothing. Now that I can afford it, I am going to return some of those favors and square myself.
                        Doesn't it sound reasonable?"
                    And so preparations for Monty's dinner went on. In addition to what he called his
                        "efficient corps of gentlemanly aids" he had secured the services of Mrs. Dan
                        DeMille as "social mentor and utility chaperon." Mrs. DeMille was known in the
                        papers as the leader of the fast younger married set. She was one of the cleverest and
                        best-looking young women in town, and her husband was of those who did not have to be
                        "invited too." Mr. DeMille lived at the club and visited his home. Some one
                        said that he was so slow and his wife so fast that when she invited him to dinner he was usually
                        two or three days late. Altogether Mrs. DeMille was a decided acquisition to Brewster's
                        campaign committee. It  required just her touch to make his parties
                        fun instead of funny.
                    It was on October 18th that the dinner was given. With the skill of a general Mrs. Dan had seated
                        the guests in such a way that from the beginning things went off with zest. Colonel Drew took in
                        Mrs. Valentine and his content was assured; Mr. Van Winkle and the beautiful Miss Valentine were
                        side by side and no one could say he looked unhappy; Mr. Cromwell went in with Mrs. Savage; and
                        the same delicate tactin some cases it was almost indelicatewas displayed in the disposition of
                        other guests.
                    Somehow they had come with the expectation of being bored. Curiosity prompted them to accept, but
                        it did not prevent the subsequent inevitable lassitude. Socially Monty Brewster had yet to make
                        himself felt. He and his dinners were something to talk about, but they were accepted
                        hesitatingly, haltingly. People wondered how he had secured the coperation of Mrs. Dan, but then
                        Mrs. Dan always did go in for a new toy. To her was inevitably attributed whatever success the
                        dinner achieved. And it was no small measure. Yet there was nothing startling about the affair.
                        Monty had decided to begin conservatively.  He did the conventional
                        thing, but he did it well. He added a touch or two of luxury, the faintest aroma of splendor.
                        Pettingill had designed the curiously wayward table, with its comfortable atmosphere of
                        companionship, and arranged its decoration of great lavender orchids and lacy butterfly festoons
                        of white ones touched with yellow. He had wanted to use dahlias in their many rich shades from
                        pale yellow to orange and deep red, but Monty held out for orchids. It was the artist, too, who
                        had found in a rare and happy moment the massive gold candelabraancient things of a more
                        luxurious ageand their opalescent shades. Against his advice the service, too, was of
                        gold,"rank vulgarity," he called it, with its rich meaningless ornamentation.
                        But here Monty was obdurate. He insisted that he liked the color and that porcelain had no
                        character. Mrs. Dan only prevented a quarrel by suggesting that several courses should be served
                        upon Svres.
                    Pettingill's scheme for lighting the room was particularly happy. For the benefit of his
                        walls and the four lovely Monets which Monty had purchased at his instigation, he had designed a
                        ceiling screen of heavy rich glass in tones of white that grew into yellow and dull  green. It served to conceal the lights in the daytime, and at
                        night the glare of electricity was immensely softened and made harmonious by passing through it.
                        It gave a note of quiet to the picture, which caused even these men and women, who had been here
                        and there and seen many things, to draw in their breath sharply. Altogether the effect
                        manifestly made an impression.
                    Such an environment had its influence upon the company. It went far toward making the dinner a
                        success. From far in the distance came the softened strains of Hungarian music, and never had
                        the little band played the "Valse Amoureuse" and the "Valse
                        Bleue" with the spirit it put into them that night. Yet the soft clamor in the
                        dining-room insistently ignored the emotion of the music. Monty, bored as he was between the two
                        most important dowagers at the feast, wondered dimly what invisible part it played in making
                        things go. He had a vagrant fancy that without it there would have been no zest for talk, no
                        noisy competition to overcome, no hurdles to leap. As it was, the talk certainly went well, and
                        Mrs. Dan inspected the result of her work from time to time with smiling satisfaction. From
                        across the table she heard Colonel Drew's 
                        voice,"Brewster evidently objects to a long siege. He is planning to carry us by
                        assault."
                    Mrs. Dan turned to "Subway" Smith, who was at her rightthe latest addition to
                        her menagerie. "What is this friend of yours?" she asked. "I have
                        never seen such complex simplicity. This new plaything has no real charm for him. He is breaking
                        it to find out what it is made of. And something will happen when he discovers the
                        sawdust."
                    "Oh, don't worry about him," said "Subway," easily;
                        "Monty's at least a good sportsman. He won't complain, whatever
                        happens. He'll accept the reckoning and pay the piper."
                    It was only toward the end of the evening that Monty found his reward in a moment with Barbara
                        Drew. He stood before her, squaring his shoulders belligerently to keep away intruders, and she
                        smiled up at him in that bewildering fashion of hers. But it was only for an instant, and then
                        came a terrifying din from the dining-room, followed by the clamor of crashing glass. The guests
                        tried for a moment to be courteously oblivious, but the noise was so startling that such
                        politeness became farcical. The host, with a little laugh, went down the hall. It was the
                        beautiful screen near the ceiling that had fallen. A thousand pieces of  shattered glass covered the place. The table was a sickening heap of crushed
                        orchids and sputtering candles. Frightened servants rushed into the room from one side just as
                        Brewster entered from the other. Stupefaction halted them. After the first pulseless moment of
                        horror, exclamations of dismay went up on all sides. For Monty Brewster the first sensation of
                        regret was followed by a diabolical sense of joy.
                    "Thank the Lord!" he said softly in the hush.
                    The look of surprise he encountered in the faces of his guests brought him up with a jerk.
                    "That it didn't happen while we were dining," he added with serene
                        thankfulness. And his nonchalance scored for him in the idle game he was playing.
                
                
                
                    VII
                    A LESSON IN TACT
                    Mr. Brewster's butler was surprised and annoyed. For the first time in his official
                        career he had unbent so far as to manifest a personal interest in the welfare of his master. He
                        was on the verge of assuming a responsibility which makes any servant intolerable. But after his
                        interview he resolved that he would never again overstep his position. He made sure that it
                        should be the last offense. The day following the dinner Rawles appeared before young Mr.
                        Brewster and indicated by his manner that the call was an important one. Brewster was seated at
                        his writing-table, deep in thought. The exclamation that followed Rawles' cough of
                        announcement was so sharp and so unmistakably fierce that all other evidence paled into
                        insignificance. The butler's interruption came at a moment when Monty's mental
                        arithmetic was pulling itself out of a very bad rut, and the cough drove it back into chaos.
                    "What is it?" he demanded, irritably.  Rawles had
                        upset his calculations to the extent of seven or eight hundred dollars.
                    "I came to report h' an h' unfortunate condition h' among the
                        servants, sir," said Rawles, stiffening as his responsibility became more and more
                        weighty. He had relaxed temporarily upon entering the room.
                    "What's the trouble?"
                    "The trouble's h' ended, sir."
                    "Then why bother me about it?"
                    "I thought it would be well for you to know, sir. The servants was going to ask for
                        'igher wiges to-day, sir."
                    "You say they were going to ask? Aren't they?" And Monty's
                        eyes lighted up at the thought of new possibilities.
                    "I convinced them, sir, as how they were getting good pay as it is, sir, and that they
                        ought to be satisfied. They'd be a long time finding a better place and as good wiges.
                        They 'aven't been with you a week, and here they are strikin' for
                        more pay. Really, sir, these American servants"
                    "Rawles, that'll do!" exploded Monty. The butler's chin went
                        up and his cheeks grew redder than ever.
                    "I beg pardon, sir," he gasped, with a respectful but injured air.
                    
                    "Rawles, you will kindly not interfere in such matters again. It is not only the
                        privilege, but the duty of every American to strike for higher pay whenever he feels like it,
                        and I want it distinctly understood that I am heartily in favor of their attitude. You will
                        kindly go back and tell them that after a reasonable length of service their wigesI mean
                        wagesshall be increased. And don't meddle again, Rawles."
                    Late that afternoon Brewster dropped in at Mrs. DeMille's to talk over plans for the
                        next dinner. He realized that in no other way could he squander his money with a better chance
                        of getting its worth than by throwing himself bodily into society. It went easily, and there
                        could be only one asset arising from it in the endhis own sense of disgust.
                    "So glad to see you, Monty," greeted Mrs. Dan, glowingly, coming in with a
                        rush. "Come upstairs and I'll give you some tea and a cigarette. I'm
                        not at home to anybody."
                    "That's very good of you, Mrs. Dan," said he, as they mounted the
                        stairs. "I don't know what I'd do without your help." He was
                        thinking how pretty she was.
                    "You'd be richer, at any rate," turning to smile upon him from the
                        upper landing. "I was  in tears half the night, Monty,
                        over that glass screen," she said, after finding a comfortable place among the cushions
                        of a divan. Brewster dropped into a roomy, lazy chair in front of her and handed her a
                        cigarette, as he responded carelessly:
                    "It amounted to nothing. Of course, it was very annoying that it should happen while the
                        guests were still there." Then he added, gravely, "In strict confidence, I had
                        planned to have it fall just as we were pushing back our chairs, but the confounded thing
                        disappointed me. That's the trouble with these automatic climaxes; they usually hang
                        fire. It was to have been a sort of Fall of Babylon effect, you know."
                    "Splendid! But like Babylon, it fell at the wrong time."
                    For a lively quarter of an hour they discussed people about town, liberally approving the
                        slandered and denouncing the slanderers. A still busier quarter of an hour ensued when together
                        they made up the list of dinner guests. He moved a little writing-table up to the divan, and she
                        looked on eagerly while he wrote down the names she suggested after many puckerings of her fair,
                        aristocratic brow, and then drew lines through them when  she
                        changed her mind. Mrs. Dan DeMille handled her people without gloves in making up
                        Monty's lists. The dinners were not hers, and she could afford to do as she pleased
                        with his; he was broad and tall and she was not slow to see that he was indifferent. He did not
                        care who the guests were, or how they came; he merely wished to make sure of their presence. His
                        only blunder was the rather diffident recommendation that Barbara Drew be asked again. If he
                        observed that Mrs. Dan's head sank a little closer to the paper, he attached no
                        importance to the movement; he could not see that her eyes grew narrow, and he paid no attention
                        to the little catch in her breath.
                    "Wouldn't that be a littlejust a little pronounced?" she asked,
                        lightly enough.
                    "You meanthat people might talk?"
                    "She might feel conspicuously present."
                    "Do you think so? We are such good friends, you know."
                    "Of course, if you'd like to have her," slowly and doubtfully,
                        "why, put her name down. But you evidently haven't seen that." Mrs.
                        Dan pointed to a copy of the Trumpet which lay on the table.
                    When he had handed her the paper she  said, "'The
                        Censor' is growing facetious at your expense."
                    "I am getting on in society with a vengeance if that ass starts in to write about me.
                        Listen to this"she had pointed out to him the obnoxious paragraph"'If
                        Brewster Drew a diamond flush, do you suppose he'd catch the queen? And if he caught
                        her, how long do you think she'd remain Drew? Or, if she Drew Brewster, would she be
                        willing to learn such a game as Monte?'"
                    The next morning a writer who signed himself "The Censor" got a thrashing and
                        one Montgomery Brewster had his name in the papers, surrounded by fulsome words of praise.
                
                
                
                    VIII
                    THE FORELOCK OF TIME
                    One morning not long after the incidents just related, Brewster lay in bed, staring at the
                        ceiling, deep in thought. There was a worried pucker on his forehead, half-hidden by the rumpled
                        hair, and his eyes were wide and sleepless. He had dined at the Drew's the evening
                        before and had had an awakening. As he thought of the matter he could recall no special
                        occurrence that he could really use as evidence. Colonel and Mrs. Drew had been as kind as ever
                        and Barbara could not have been more charming. But something had gone wrong and he had endured a
                        wretched evening.
                    "That little English Johnnie was to blame," he argued. "Of course,
                        Barbara had a right to put any one she liked next to her, but why she should have chosen that
                        silly ass is more than I know. By Jove, if I had been on the other side I'll warrant
                        his grace would have been lost in the dust."
                    His brain was whirling, and for the first time he was beginning to feel the unpleasant  pangs of jealousy. The Duke of Beauchamp he especially disliked,
                        although the poor man had hardly spoken during the dinner. But Monty could not be reconciled. He
                        knew, of course, that Barbara had suitors by the dozen, but it had never occurred to him that
                        they were even seriously considered. Notwithstanding the fact that his encounter with
                        "The Censor" had brought her into undesirable notice, she forgave him
                        everything after a moment's consideration. The first few wrenches of resentment were
                        overbalanced by her American appreciation of chivalry, however inspired. "The
                        Censor" had gone for years unpunished; his coarse wit being aimed at every one who had
                        come into social prominence. So pungent and vindictive was his pen that other men feared him,
                        and there were many who lived in glass houses in terror of a fusilade. Brewster's
                        prompt and sufficient action had checked the pernicious attacks, and he became a hero among men
                        and women. After that night there was no point to "The Censor's" pen.
                        Monty's first qualms of apprehension were swept away when Colonel Drew himself hailed
                        him the morning after the encounter and, in no unmeasured terms, congratulated him upon his
                        achievement,  assuring him that Barbara and Mrs. Drew approved,
                        although they might lecture him as a matter of form.
                    But on this morning, as he lay in his bed, Monty was thinking deeply and painfully. He was
                        confronted by a most embarrassing condition and he was discussing it soberly with himself.
                        "I've never told her," he said to himself, "but if she
                        doesn't know my feeling she is not as clever as I think. Besides, I haven't
                        time to make love to her now. If it were any other girl I suppose I'd have to, but
                        Babs, why, she must understand. And yetdamn that Duke!"
                    In order to woo her properly he would be compelled to neglect financial duties that needed every
                        particle of brain-energy at his command. He found himself opposed at the outset by a startling
                        embarrassment, made absolutely clear by the computations of the night before. The last four days
                        of indifference to finance on one side, and pampering the heart on the other, had proved very
                        costly. To use his own expression, he had been "set back" almost eight
                        thousand dollars. An average like that would be ruinous.
                    "Why, think of it," he continued. "For each day sacrificed to Barbara
                        I must deduct  something like twenty-five hundred dollars. A long
                        campaign would put me irretrievably in the hole; I'd get so far behind that a holocaust
                        couldn't put me even. She can't expect that of me, yet girls are such idiots
                        about devotion, and of course she doesn't know what a heavy task I'm facing.
                        And there are the otherswhat will they do while I am out of the running? I cannot go to her and
                        say, 'Please, may I have a year's vacation? I'll come back next
                        September.' On the other hand, I shall surely neglect my business if she expects me to
                        compete. What pleasure shall I get out of the seven millions if I lose her? I can't
                        afford to take chances. That Duke won't have seven millions next September,
                        it's true, but he'll have a prodigious argument against me, about the
                        twenty-first or second."
                    Then a brilliant thought occurred to him which caused him to ring for a messenger-boy with such a
                        show of impatience that Rawles stood aghast. The telegram which Monty wrote was as follows:
                    SWEARENGEN JONES,
                    Butte, Montana.
                    May I marry and turn all property over to wife, providing she will have me?
                    MONTGOMERY BREWSTER.
                    
                    "Why isn't that reasonable?" he asked himself after the boy had gone.
                        "Making property over to one's wife is neither a loan nor is it charity. Old
                        Jones might call it needless extravagance, since he's a bachelor, but it's
                        generally done because it's good business." Monty was hopeful.
                    Following his habit in trouble, he sought Margaret Gray, to whom he could always appeal for
                        advice and consolation. She was to come to his next dinner-party, and it was easy to lead up to
                        the subject in hand by mentioning the other guests.
                    "And Barbara Drew," he concluded, after naming all the others. They were alone
                        in the library, and she was drinking in the details of the dinner as he related them.
                    "Wasn't she at your first dinner?" she asked, quickly.
                    He successfully affected mild embarrassment.
                    "Yes."
                    "She must be very attractive." There was no venom in Peggy's heart.
                    "She is attractive. In fact, she's one of the best, Peggy," he said,
                        paving the way.
                    "It's too bad she seems to care for that little Duke."
                    
                    "He's a bounder," he argued.
                    "Well, don't take it to heart. You don't have to marry him,"
                        and Peggy laughed.
                    "But I do take it to heart, Peggy," said Monty, seriously.
                        "I'm pretty hard hit, and I want your help. A sister's advice is
                        always the best in a matter of this sort."
                    She looked into his eyes dully for an instant, not realizing the full importance of his
                        confession.
                    "You, Monty?" she said, increduously.
                    "I've got it bad, Peggy," he replied, staring hard at the floor. She
                        could not understand the cold, gray tone that suddenly enveloped the room. The strange sense of
                        loneliness that came over her was inexplicable. The little something that rose in her throat
                        would not be dislodged, nor could she throw off the weight that seemed pressing down upon her.
                        He saw the odd look in her eyes and the drawn, uncertain smile on her lips, but he attributed
                        them to wonder and incredulity. Somehow, after all these years, he was transformed before her
                        very eyes; she was looking upon a new personality. He was no longer Montgomery, the brother, but
                        she could not explain how and when the change crept over her. What did it all mean? "I
                        am very glad  if it will make you happy, Monty," she said
                        slowly, the gray in her lips giving way to red once more. "Does she know?"
                    "I haven't told her in so many words, Peggy, butbut I'm going to this
                        evening," he announced, lamely.
                    "This evening?"
                    "I can't wait," Monty said as he rose to go. "I'm
                        glad you're pleased, Peggy; I need your good wishes. And Peggy," he continued,
                        with a touch of boyish wistfulness, "do you think there's a chance for a
                        fellow? I've had the very deuce of a time over that Englishman."
                    It was not quite easy for her to say, "Monty, you are the best in the world. Go in and
                        win."
                    From the window she watched him swing off down the street, wondering if he would turn to wave his
                        hand to her, his custom for years. But the broad back was straight and uncompromising. His long
                        strides carried him swiftly out of sight, but it was many minutes before she turned her eyes,
                        which were smarting, a little from the point where he was lost in the crowd. The room looked
                        ashen to her as she brought her mind back to it, and somehow things had grown difficult.
                    
                    When Montgomery reached home he found this telegram from Mr. Jones.
                    MONTGOMERY BREWSTER,
                    New York City.
                    Stick to your knitting, you damned fool.
                    S. JONES.
                
                
                
                    IX
                    LOVE AND A PRIZE-FIGHT
                    It is best not to repeat the expressions Brewster used regarding one S. Jones, after reading his
                        telegram. But he felt considerably relieved after he had uttered them. He fell to reading
                        accounts of the big prizefight which was to take place in San Francisco that evening. He
                        revelled in the descriptions of "upper cuts" and "left
                        hooks," and learned incidentally that the affair was to be quite one-sided. A local
                        amateur was to box a champion. quick to see an opportunity, and cajoling himself into the belief
                        that Swearengen Jones could not object to such a display of sportsmanship, Brewster made
                        Harrison book several good wagers on the result. He intimated that he had reason to believe that
                        the favorite would lose. Harrison soon placed three thousand dollars on his man. The young
                        financier felt so sure of the result that he entered the bets on the profit side of his ledger
                        the moment he received Harrison's report.
                    
                    This done, he telephoned Miss Drew. She was not insensible to the significance of his inquiry if
                        she would be in that afternoon. She had observed in him of late a condition of uneasiness,
                        supplemented by moroseness and occasional periods of irascibility. Every girl whose occupation
                        in life is the study of men recognizes these symptoms and knows how to treat them. Barbara had
                        dealt with many men afflicted in this manner, and the flutter of anticipation that came with his
                        urgent plea to see her was tempered by experience. It had something of joy in it, for she cared
                        enough for Montgomery Brewster to have made her anxiously uncertain of his state of mind. She
                        cared, indeed, much more than she intended to confess at the outset.
                    It was nearly half past five when he came, and for once the philosophical Miss Drew felt a little
                        irritation. So certain was she of his object in coming that his tardiness was a trifle ruffling.
                        He apologized for being late, and succeeded in banishing the pique that possessed her. It was
                        naturally impossible for him to share all his secrets with her, and that is why he did not tell
                        her that Grant & Ripley had called him up to report the receipt of a telegram from
                        Swearengen Jones, in which the  gentleman laconically said he could
                        feed the whole State of Montana for less than six thousand dollars. Beyond that there was no
                        comment. Brewster, in dire trepidation, hastened to the office of the attorneys. They smiled
                        when he burst in upon them.
                    "Good heavens!" he exclaimed, "does the miserly old hayseed expect me
                        to spend a million for newspapers, cigarettes and Boston terriers? I thought he would be
                        reasonable!"
                    "He evidently has seen the newspaper accounts of your dinner, and this is merely his
                        comment," said Mr. Ripley.
                    "It's either a warning, or else he's ambiguous in his
                        compliments," growled Brewster, disgustedly.
                    "I don't believe he disapproved, Mr. Brewster. In the west the old gentleman is
                        widely known as a wit."
                    "A wit, eh? Then he'll appreciate an answer from me. Have you a telegraph
                        blank, Mr. Grant?"
                    Two minutes later the following telegram to Swearengen Jones was awaiting the arrival of a
                        messenger-boy, and Brewster was blandly assuring Messrs. Grant & Ripley that he did not
                        "care a rap for the consequences":
                    
                    NEW YORK, October 23, I
                    SWEARENGEN JONES,
                    Butte, Mont.
                    No doubt you could do it for less than six thousand. Montana is regarded as the best grazing
                        country in the world, but we don't eat that sort of stuff in New York. That's
                        why it costs more to live here.
                    MONTGOMERY BREWSTER.
                    
                    Just before leaving his apartments for Miss Drew's home he received this response from
                        far-away Montana:
                    BUTTE, MONTANA, Oct. 23, I
                    MONTGOMERY BREWSTER,
                    New York,
                    We are eight thousand feet above the level of the sea. I suppose that's why it costs us
                        less to live high.
                    S. JONES.
                    "I was beginning to despair, Monty," said Miss Drew, reproachfully, when he had
                        come down from the height of his exasperation and remembered that there were things of more
                        importance.
                    The light in his eyes brought the faintest tinge of red to her cheeks, and where a moment before
                        there had been annoyance there was now a feeling of serenity. For a moment the silence was
                        fraught with purpose. Monty glanced around the room, uncertain how to begin. It was not so easy
                        as he had imagined.
                    
                    "You are very good to see me," he said at last. "It was absolutely
                        necessary for me to talk to you this evening; I could not have endured the suspense any longer.
                        Barbara, I've spent three or four sleepless nights on your account. Will it spoil your
                        evening if I tell you in plain words what you already know? It won't bother you, will
                        it?" he floundered.
                    "What do you mean, Monty?" she begged, purposely dense, and with wonderful
                        control of her eyes.
                    "I love you, Babs," he cried. "I thought you knew about it all along
                        or I should have told you before. That's why I haven't slept. The fear that
                        you may not care for me has driven me nearly to distraction. It couldn't go on any
                        longer. I must know to-day."
                    There was a gleam in his eyes that made her pose of indifference difficult; the fervor of his
                        half-whispered words took possession of her. She had expected sentiment of such a different
                        character that his frank confession disarmed her completely. Beneath his ardent, abrupt plea
                        there was assurance, the confidence of one who is not to be denied. It was not what he had said,
                        but the way he had said it. A wave of exultation swept over her, tingling through every nerve.
                             Under the spell her resolution to dally lightly with his
                        emotion suffered a check that almost brought ignominious surrender. Both of her hands were
                        clasped in his when he exultingly resumed the charge against her heart, but she was rapidly
                        regaining control of her emotions and he did not know that he was losing ground with each step
                        he took forward. Barbara Drew loved Brewster, but she was going to make him pay dearly for the
                        brief lapse her composure had experienced. When next she spoke she was again the Miss Drew who
                        had been trained in the ways of the world, and not the young girl in love.
                    "I care for you a great deal, Monty," she said, "but I'm
                        wondering whether I care enough toto marry you."
                    "We haven't known each other very long, Babs," he said, tenderly,
                        "but I think we know each other well enough to be beyond wondering."
                    "It is like you to manage the whole thing," she said, chidingly.
                        "Can't you give me time to convince myself that I love you as you would like,
                        and as I must love if I expect to be happy with the man I marry?"
                    "I forgot myself," he said, humbly.
                    "You forgot me," she protested, gently,  touched
                        by this sign of contrition. "I do care for you, Monty, but don't you see
                        it's no little thing you ask of me? I must be surevery surebefore Ibefore"
                    "Don't be so distressed," he pleaded. "You will love me, I
                        know, because you love me now. This means much to me, but it means more to you. You are the
                        woman and you are the one whose happiness should be considered. I can live only in the hope that
                        when I come to you again with this same story and this same question you'll not be
                        afraid to trust yourself to me."
                    "You deserve to be happy for that, Monty," she said, earnestly, and it was with
                        difficulty that she kept her eyes from wavering as they looked into his.
                    "You will let me try to make you love me?" he asked, eagerly.
                    "I may not be worth the struggle."
                    "I'll take that chance," he replied.
                    She was conscious of disappointment after he was gone. He had not pleaded as ardently as she had
                        expected and desired, and, try as she would, she could not banish the touch of irritation that
                        had come to haunt her for the night.
                    Brewster walked to the club, elated that he had at least made a beginning. His position  was now clear. Besides losing a fortune he must win Barbara in
                        open competition.
                    At the theater that evening he met Harrison, who was in a state of jubilation.
                    "Where did you get that tip?" asked he.
                    "Tip? What tip?" from Brewster.
                    "On the prize-fight."
                    Brewster's face fell and something cold crept over him.
                    "How didwhat was the result?" he asked, sure of the answer.
                    "Haven't you heard? Your man knocked him out in the fifth roundsurprised
                        everybody."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    THE NAPOLEON OF FINANCE
                    The next two months were busy ones for Brewster. Miss Drew saw him quite as often as before the
                        important interview, but he was always a puzzle to her.
                    "His attitude is changed somehow," she thought to herself, and then she
                        remembered that "a man who wins a girl after an ardent suit is often like one who runs
                        after a street car and then sits down to read his paper."
                    In truth after the first few days Monty seemed to have forgotten his competitors, and was resting
                        in the consciousness of his assured position. Each day he sent her flowers and considered that
                        he had more than done his duty. He used no small part of his income on the flowers, but in this
                        case his mission was almost forgotten in his love for Barbara.
                    Monty's attitude was not due to any waning of his affection, but to the very unromantic
                        business in which he was engaged. It seemed to him that, plan as he might, he could not devise
                        fresh ways and means to earn $16,000 a  day. He was still
                        comfortably ahead in the race, but a famine in opportunities was not far remote. Ten big dinner
                        parties and a string of elaborate after-the-play suppers maintained a fair but insufficient
                        average, and he could see that the time was ripe for radical measures. He could not go on
                        forever with his dinners. People were already beginning to refer to the fact that he was warming
                        his toes on the Social Register, and he had no desire to become the laughing-stock of the town.
                        The few slighting, sarcastic remarks about his business ability, chiefly by women and therefore
                        reflected from the men, hurt him. Miss Drew's apparently harmless taunt and Mrs.
                        Dan's open criticism told plainly enough how the wind was blowing, but it was
                        Peggy's gentle questions that cut the deepest. There was such honest concern in her
                        voice that he could see how his profligacy was troubling her and Mrs. Gray. In their eyes, more
                        than in the others, he felt ashamed and humiliated. Finally, goaded by the remark of a bank
                        director which he overheard, "Edwin P. Brewster is turning hand-springs in his grave
                        over the way he is going it," Monty resolved to redeem himself in the eyes of his
                        critics. He would show them that his brain was not wholly given over to frivolity.
                    
                    With this project in mind he decided to cause a little excitement in Wall Street. For some days
                        he stealthily watched the stock market and plied his friends with questions about values.
                        Constant reading and observation finally convinced him that Lumber and Fuel Common was the one
                        stock in which he could safely plunge. Casting aside all apprehension, so far as Swearengen
                        Jones was concerned, he prepared for what was to be his one and only venture on the Stock
                        Exchange before the 23d of the following September. With all the cunning and craftiness of a
                        general he laid his plans for the attack. Gardner's face was the picture of despair
                        when Brewster asked him to buy heavily in Lumber and Fuel.
                    "Good heavens, Monty," cried the broker, "you're joking.
                        Lumber is away up now. It can't possibly go a fraction of a point higher. Take my
                        advice and don't touch it. It opened to-day at 111 3/4 and closed at 109. Why, man,
                        you're crazy to think about it for an instant."
                    "I know my business, Gardner," said Brewster, quietly, and his conscience smote
                        him when he saw the flush of mortification creep into the face of his friend. The rebuke had cut
                        Gardner to the quick.
                    "But, Monty, I know what I'm talking  about. At
                        least let me tell you something about this stock," pleaded Elon, loyally, despite the
                        wound.
                    "Gardy, I've gone into this thing carefully, and if ever a man felt sure about
                        anything I do about this," said Monty, decidedly but affectionately.
                    "Take my word for it Lumber can't go any higher. Think of the situation; the
                        lumber men in the north and west are overstocked, and there is a strike ready to go into effect.
                        When that comes the stock will go for a song. The slump is liable to begin any day."
                    "My mind is made up," said the other firmly, and Gardner was in despair.
                        "Will you or will you not execute an order for me at the opening to-morrow?
                        I'll start with ten thousand shares. What will it cost me to margin it for ten
                        points?"
                    "At least a hundred thousand, exclusive of commission, which would be twelve and a half
                        a hundred shares." Despite the most strenuous opposition from Gardner, Brewster adhered
                        to his design, and the broker executed the order the next morning. He knew that Brewster had but
                        one chance to win, and that was to buy the stock in a lump instead of distributing it among
                        several brokers and throughout  the session. This was a point that
                        Monty had overlooked.
                    There had been little to excite the Stock Exchange for some weeks; nothing was active and the
                        slightest flurry was hailed as an event. Everyone knew that the calm would be disturbed at some
                        near day, but nobody looked for a sensation in Lumber and Fuel. It was a foregone conclusion
                        that a slump was coming, and there was scarcely any trading in the stock. When Elon Gardner,
                        acting for Montgomery Brewster took ten thousand shares at 108 3/4 there was a mighty gasp on
                        the Exchange, then a rubbing of eyes, then commotion. Astonishment was followed by nervousness,
                        and then came the struggle.
                    Brewster, confident that the stock could go no higher, and that sooner or later it must drop,
                        calmly ordered his horse for a ride in the snow-covered park. Even though he knew the venture
                        was to be a failure in the ordinary sense he found joy in the knowledge that he was doing
                        something. He might be a fool, he was at least no longer inactive. The feel of the air was good
                        to him. He was exhilarated by the glitter of the snow, the answering excitement of his horse,
                        the gaiety and sparkle of life about him.
                    
                    Somewhere far back in his inner self there seemed to be the sound of cheering and the clapping of
                        hands. Shortly before noon he reached his club, where he was to lunch with Colonel Drew. In the
                        reading-room he observed that men were looking at him in a manner less casual than was
                        customary. Some of them went so far as to smile encouragingly, and others waved their hands in
                        the most cordial fashion. Three or four very young members looked upon him with admiration and
                        envy and even the porters seemed more obsequious. There was something strangely oppressive in
                        all this show of deference.
                    Colonel Drew's dignity relaxed amazingly when he caught sight of the young man. He came
                        forward to meet him and his greeting almost carried Monty off his feet.
                    "How did you do it, my boy?" cried the Colonel. "She's off a
                        point or two now, I believe, but half an hour ago she was booming. Gad, I never heard of
                        anything more spectacular!"
                    Monty's heart was in his mouth as he rushed over to the ticker. It did not take him long
                        to grasp the immensity of the disaster. Gardner had bought in at 108 3/4, and that very action
                        seemed to put new life into the stock. Just as  it was on the point
                        of breaking for lack of support along came this sensational order for ten thousand shares; and
                        there could be but one result. At one time in the morning Lumber and Fuel, traded in by excited
                        holders, touched 113 1/2 and seemed in a fair way to hold firm around that figure.
                    Other men came up and listened eagerly. Brewster realized that his dash in Lumber and Fuel had
                        been a master-stroke of cleverness when considered from the point of view of these men, but a
                        catastrophe from his own.
                    "I hope you sold it when it was at the top," said the Colonel anxiously.
                    "I instructed Gardner to sell only when I gave the word," said Monty, lamely.
                        Several of the men looked at him in surprise and disgust.
                    "Well, if I were you I'd tell him to sell," remarked the Colonel,
                        coldly.
                    "The effect of your plunge has worn off, Brewster, and the other side will drive the
                        prices down. They won't be caught napping again, either," said one of the
                        bystanders earnestly.
                    "Do you think so?" And there was a note of relief in Monty's voice.
                    From all sides came the advice to sell at  once, but Brewster was
                        not to be pushed. He calmly lighted a cigarette, and with an assured air of wisdom told them to
                        wait a little while and see.
                    "She's already falling off," said some one at the ticker.
                    When Brewster's bewildered eyes raced over the figures the stock was quoted at 112. His
                        sigh of relief was heard but misunderstood. He might be saved after all. The stock had started
                        to go down and there seemed no reason why it should stop. As he intended to purchase no more it
                        was fair to assume that the backbone was at the breaking point. The crash was bound to come. He
                        could hardly restrain a cry of joy. Even while he stood at the ticker the little instrument
                        began to tell of a further decline. As the price went down his hopes went up.
                    The bystanders were beginning to be disgusted. "It was only a fluke after all,"
                        they said to each other. Colonel Drew was appealed to to urge Monty to save himself, and he was
                        on the point of remonstrance when the message came that the threatened strike was off, and that
                        the men were willing to arbitrate. Almost before one could draw breath this startling news began
                        to make itself felt. The certainty of a  great strike was one of
                        the things that had made Brewster sure that the price could not hold. With this danger removed
                        there was nothing to jeopardize the earning power of the stock. The next quotation was a point
                        higher.
                    "You sly dog," said the Colonel, digging Monty in the side. "I had
                        confidence in you all the time."
                    In ten minutes' time Lumber and Fuel was again up to 113 and soaring. Brewster,
                        panic-stricken, rushed to the telephone and called up Gardner.
                    The broker, hoarse with excitement, was delighted when he recognized Brewster's voice.
                    "You're a wonder, Monty! I'll see you after the close. How the devil
                        did you do it?" shouted Gardner.
                    "What's the price now?" asked Brewster.
                    "One thirteen and three-fourths, and going up all the time. Hooray!"
                    "Do you think she'll go down again?" demanded Brewster.
                    "Not if I can help it.
                    "Very well then, go and sell out," roared Brewster.
                    "But she's going up like"
                    "Sell, damn you! Didn't you hear?"
                    Gardner, dazed and weak, began selling, and  finally liquidated the
                        full line at prices ranging from 114 to 112 1/2, but Montgomery Brewster had cleared $58,550,
                        and all because it was he and not the market that got excited.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    COALS OF FIRE
                    It was not that he had realized heavily in his investments which caused his friends and his
                        enemies to regard him in a new light; his profit had been quite small, as things go on the
                        Exchange in these days. The mere fact that he had shown such foresight proved sufficient cause
                        for the reversal of opinion. Men looked at him with new interest in their eyes, with fresh
                        confidence. His unfortunate operations in the stock market had restored him to favor in all
                        circles. The man, young or old, who could do what he had done with Lumber and Fuel well deserved
                        the new promises that were being made for him.
                    Brewster bobbed uncertainly between two emotionselation and distress. He had achieved two kinds
                        of successthe desired and the undesired. It was but natural that he should feel proud of the
                        distinction the venture had brought to him on one hand, but there was reason for despair over
                        the acquisition of $50,000. It made it necessary for him to undertake an almost superhuman
                        featincrease  the number of his January bills. The plans for the
                        ensuing spring and summer were dimly getting into shape and they covered many startling
                        projects. Since confiding some of them to "Nopper" Harrison, that gentleman
                        had worn a never-decreasing look of worry and anxiety in his eyes.
                    Rawles added to his despair a day or two after the Stock Exchange misfortune. He brought up the
                        information that six splendid little puppies had come to bless his Boston terrier family, and
                        Joe Bragdon, who was present, enthusiastically predicted that he could get $100 apiece for them.
                        Brewster loved dogs, yet for one single horrible moment he longed to massacre the helpless
                        little creatures. But the old affection came back to him, and he hurried out with Bragdon to
                        inspect the brood.
                    "And I've either got to sell them or kill them," he groaned. Later on
                        he instructed Bragdon to sell the pups for $25 apiece, and went away, ashamed to look their
                        proud mother in the face.
                    Fortune smiled on him before the day was over, however. He took "Subway" Smith
                        for a ride in the "Green Juggernaut," bad weather and bad roads
                        notwithstanding. Monty lost  control of the machine and headed for
                        a subway excavation. He and Smith saved themselves by leaping to the pavement, sustaining slight
                        bruises, but the great machine crashed through the barricade and dropped to the bottom of the
                        trench far below. To Smith's grief and Brewster's delight the automobile was
                        hopelessly ruined, a clear loss of many thousands. Monty's joy was short-lived, for it
                        was soon learned that three luckless workmen down in the depths had been badly injured by the
                        green meteor from above. The mere fact that Brewster could and did pay liberally for the relief
                        of the poor fellows afforded him little consolation. His carelessness, and possibly his
                        indifference, had brought suffering to these men and their families which was not pleasant to
                        look back upon. Lawsuits were avoided by compromises. Each of the injured men received $4,000.
                    At this time everyone was interested in the charity bazaar at the Astoria. Society was on
                        exhibition, and the public paid for the privilege of gazing at the men and women whose names
                        filled the society columns. Brewster frequented the booth presided over by Miss Drew, and there
                        seemed to be no end to his philanthropy. The bazaar lasted two days and  nights, and after that period his account-book showed an even
                        "profit" of nearly $3,000. Monty's serenity, however, was
                        considerably ruffled by the appearance of a new and aggressive claimant for the smiles of the
                        fair Barbara. He was a Californian of immense wealth and unbounded confidence in himself, and
                        letters to people in New-York had given him a certain entre. The triumphs in love and finance
                        that had come with his two score years and ten had demolished every vestige of timidity that may
                        have been born with him. He was successful enough in the world of finance to have become four or
                        five times a millionaire, and he had fared so well in love that twice he had been a widower.
                        Rodney Grimes was starting out to win Barbara with the same dash and impulsiveness that overcame
                        Mary Farrell, the cook in the mining-camp, and Jane Boothroyd, the school-teacher, who came to
                        California ready to marry the first man who asked her. He was a penniless prospector when he
                        married Mary, and when he led Jane to the altar she rejoiced in having captured a husband worth
                        at least $50,000.
                    He vied with Brewster in patronizing Barbara's booth, and he rushed into the conflict
                        with an impetuousity that seemed destined to carry everything before it. Monty was brushed  aside, Barbara was prempted as if she were a mining claim and ten
                        days after his arrival in New York, Grimes was the most talked-of man in town. Brewster was not
                        the sort to be dispatched without a struggle, however. Recognizing Grimes as an obstacle, but
                        not as a rival, he once more donned his armor and beset Barbara with all the zest of a champion
                        who seeks to protect and not to conquer. He regarded the Californian as an impostor and summary
                        action was necessary. "I know all about him, Babs," he said one day after he
                        felt sure of his position. "Why, his father was honored by the V. C., on the coast in
                        '49."
                    "The Victoria Cross?" asked Barbara innocently.
                    "No, the vigilance committee."
                    In this way Monty routed the enemy and cleared the field before the end of another week. Grimes
                        transferred his objectionable affection and Barbara was not even asked to be wife number three.
                        Brewster's campaign was so ardent that he neglected other duties deplorably, falling
                        far behind his improvident average. With Grimes disposed of, he once more forsook the
                        battlefield of love and gave his harassed and undivided attention to his own peculiar business.
                    
                    The fast-and-loose game displeased Miss Barbara greatly. She was at first surprised, then piqued,
                        then resentful. Monty gradually awoke to the distressing fact that she was going to be
                        intractable, as he put it, and forthwith undertook to smooth the troubled sea. To his amazement
                        and concern she was not to be appeased.
                    "Does it occur to you, Monty," she said, with a gentle coldness that was
                        infinitely worse than heat, "that you have been carrying things with a pretty high
                        hand? Where did you acquire the right to interfere with my privileges? You seem to think that I
                        am not to speak to any man but you."
                    "O, come now, Babs," retorted Monty, "I've not been quite as
                        unreasonable as that. And you know yourself that Grimes is the worst kind of a
                        bounder."
                    "I know nothing of the sort," replied the lady, with growing irritation.
                        "You say that about every man who gives me a smile or a flower. Does it indicate such
                        atrocious taste?"
                    "Don't be silly Barbara. You know perfectly well that you have talked to
                        Gardner and that idiot Valentine by the hour, and I've not said a word. But there are
                        some things I can't stand, and the impertinence of Grimes is  one of them. Jove! he looked at you, out of those fishy eyes, sometimes as though
                        he owned you. If you knew how many times I've fairly ached to knock him down!"
                    Inwardly Barbara was weakening a little before his masterfulness. But she gave no sign.
                    "And it never occurred to you," she said, with that exasperating coldness of
                        the voice, "that I was equal to the situation. I suppose you thought Mr. Grimes had
                        only to beckon and I would joyfully answer. I'll have you know, Monty Brewster, right
                        now, that I am quite able to choose my friends, and to handle them. Mr. Grimes has character and
                        I like him. He has seen more of life in a year of his strenuous career than you ever dreamed of
                        in all your pampered existence. His life has been real, Monty Brewster, and yours is only an
                        imitation."
                    It struck him hard, but it left him gentle.
                    "Babs," he said, softly, "I can't take that from you. You
                        don't really mean it, do you? Am I as bad as that?"
                    It was a moment for dominance, and he missed it. His gentleness left her cold.
                    "Monty" she exclaimed irritably, "you are terribly exasperating. Do
                        make up your  mind that you and your million are not the only
                        things in the world."
                    His blood was up now, but it flung him away from her.
                    "Some day, perhaps, you'll find out that there is not much besides. I am just a
                        little too big, for one thing, to be played with and thrown aside. I won't stand
                        it."
                    He left the house with his head high in the air, angry red in his cheeks, and a feeling in his
                        heart that she was the most unreasonable of women. Barbara, in the meantime, cried herself to
                        sleep, vowing she would never love Monty Brewster again as long as she lived.
                    A sharp cutting wind was blowing in Monty's face as he left the house. He was thoroughly
                        wretched.
                    "Throw up your hands!" came hoarsely from somewhere, and there was no
                        tenderness in the tones. For an instant Monty was dazed and bewildered, but in the next he saw
                        two shadowy figures walking beside him. "Stop where you are, young fellow,"
                        was the next command, and he stopped short. He was in a mood to fight, but the sight of a
                        revolver made him think again. Monty was not a coward, neither was he a fool. He was quick to
                        see that a struggle would be madness.
                    
                    "What do you want?" he demanded as coolly as his nerves would permit.
                    "Put up your hands quick!" and he hastily obeyed the injunction.
                    "Not a sound out of you or you get it good and proper. You know what we want. Get to
                        work, Bill; I'll watch his hands."
                    "Help yourselves, boys. I'm not fool enough to scrap about it. Don't
                        hit me or shoot, that's all. Be quick about it, because I'll take cold if my
                        overcoat is open long. How's business been to-night?" Brewster was to all
                        intents and purposes the calmest man in New York.
                    "Fierce!" said the one who was doing the searching. "You're
                        the first guy we've seen in a week that looks good."
                    "I hope you won't be disappointed," said Monty genially. "If
                        I'd expected this I might have brought more money."
                    "I guess we'll be satisfied," chuckled the man with the revolver.
                        "You're awful nice and kind, mister, and maybe you wouldn't object to
                        tellin' us when you'll be up dis way ag'in."
                    "It's a pleasure to do business with you, pardner," said the other,
                        dropping Monty's $300 watch in his pocket. "We'll leave car-fare for
                        you for your honesty." His hands were  running through
                        Brewster's pockets with the quickness of a machine. "You don't go
                        much on jewelry, I guess. Are dese shoit buttons de real t'ing?"
                    "They're pearls," said Monty, cheerfully.
                    "My favorite jool," said the man with the revolver. "Clip 'em
                        out, Bill."
                    "Don't cut the shirt," urged Monty. "I'm going to a
                        little supper and I don't like the idea of a punctured shirt-front."
                    "I'll be careful as I kin, mister. There, I guess dat's all. Shall I
                        call a cab for you, sir?"
                    "No, thank you, I think I'll walk."
                    "Well, just walk south a hundred steps without lookin' 'round er
                        yellin' and you kin save your skin. I guess you know what I mean, pardner."
                    "I'm sure I do. Good-night."
                    "Good-night," came in chuckles from the two hold-up men. But Brewster
                        hesitated, a sharp thought penetrating his mind.
                    "By gad!" he exclaimed, "you chaps are very careless. Do you know
                        you've missed a roll of three hundred dollars in this overcoat pocket?" The
                        men gasped and the spasmodic oaths that came from them were born of incredulity. It was plain
                        that they doubted their ears.
                    
                    "Say it ag'in," muttered Bill, in bewildered tones.
                    "He's stringin' us, Bill," said the other.
                    "Sure," growled Bill. "It's a nice way to treat us, mister.
                        Move along now and don't turn 'round."
                    "Well, you're a couple of nice highwaymen," cried Monty in disgust.
                    "Shnot so loud."
                    "That is no way to attend to business. Do you expect me to go down into my pocket and
                        hand you the goods on a silver tray?"
                    "Keep your hands up! You don't woik dat game on me. You got a gun
                        there."
                    "No, I haven't. This is on the level. You overlooked a rool of bills in your
                        haste and I'm not the sort of fellow to see an earnest endeavorer get the worst of it
                        My hands are up. See for yourself if I'm not telling you the truth."
                    "What kind of game is dis?" growled Bill, dazed and bewildered.
                        "I'm blowed if I know w'at to t'ink o'
                        you," cried he in honest amazement. "You don't act drunk, and you
                        ain't crazy, but there's somethin' wrong wid you. Are you
                        givin' it to us straight about de wad?"
                    "You can find out easily."
                    
                    "Well, I hate to do it, boss, but I guess we'll just take de overcoat and all.
                        It looks like a trick and we takes no chances. Off wid de coat."
                    Monty's coat came off in a jiffy and he stood shivering before the dumbfounded robbers.
                    "We'll leave de coat at de next corner, pardner. It's cold and you
                        need it more'n we do. You're de limit, you are. So long. Walk right straight
                        ahead and don't yell."
                    Brewster found his coat a few minutes later, and went whistling away into the night. The roll of
                        bills was gone.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    CHRISTMAS DESPAIR
                    Brewster made a good story of the "hold-up" at the club, but he did not relate
                        all the details. One of the listeners was a new public commissioner who was aggressive in his
                        efforts at reform. Accordingly, Brewster was summoned to headquarters the next morning for the
                        purpose of looking over the "suspects" that had been brought in. Almost the
                        first man that he espied was a rough-looking fellow whose identity could not be mistaken. It was
                        Bill.
                    "Hello, Bill," called Monty, gaily. Bill ground his teeth for a second, but his
                        eyes had such an appeal in them that Monty relented.
                    "You know this fellow, Mr. Brewster?" demanded the captain, quickly. Bill
                        looked utterly helpless.
                    "Know Bill?" questioned Monty in surprise. "Of course I do,
                        Captain."
                    "He was picked up late last night and detained, because he would give no account of his
                        actions."
                    
                    "Was it as bad as that, Bill?" asked Brewster, with a smile. Bill mumbled
                        something and assumed a look of defiance. Monty's attitude puzzled him sorely. He
                        hardly breathed for an instant, and gulped perceptibly.
                    "Pass Bill, Captain. He was with me last night just before my money was taken, and he
                        couldn't possibly have robbed me without my knowledge. Wait for me outside, Bill. I
                        want to talk to you. I'm quite sure neither of the thieves is here, Captain,"
                        concluded Brewster, after Bill had obeyed the order to step out of the line.
                    Outside the door the puzzled crook met Brewster, who shook him warmly by the hand.
                    "You're a peach," whispered Bill, gratefully. "What did you
                        do it for, mister?"
                    "Because you were kind enough not to cut my shirt."
                    "Say, you're all right, that's what. Would you mind havin' a
                        drink with me? It's your money, but the drink won't be any the worse for that.
                        We blowed most of it already, but here's what's left." Bill handed
                        Monty a roll of bills.
                    "I'd a kept it if you'd made a fight," he continued,
                        "but it ain't square to keep it now."
                    
                    Brewster refused the money, but took back his watch.
                    "Keep it, Bill," he said, "you need it more than I do. It's
                        enough to set you up in some other trade. Why not try it?"
                    "I will try, boss," and Bill was so profuse in his thanks that Monty had
                        difficulty in getting away. As he climbed into a cab he heard Bill say, "I will try,
                        boss, and say, if ever I can do anything for you, jes' put me nex'.
                        I'm nex' you all de time."
                    He gave the driver the name of his club, but as he was passing the Waldorf he remembered that he
                        had several things to say to Mrs. Dan. The order was changed, and a few moments later he was
                        received in Mrs. Dan's very special den. She wore something soft and graceful in
                        lavender, something that was light and wavy and evanescent, and made you watch its changing
                        shadows. Monty looked down at her with the feeling that she made a very effective picture.
                    "You are looking pretty fit this morning, my lady," he said by way of preamble.
                        "How well everything plays up to you."
                    "And you are unusually courtly, Monty," she smiled. "Has the world
                        treated you so generously of late?"
                    
                    "It is treating me generously enough just now to make up for anything," and he
                        looked at her. "Do you know, Mrs. Dan, that it is borne in upon me now and then that
                        there are things that are quite worth while?"
                    "Oh, if you come to that," she answered, lightly, "everything is worth
                        while. For you, Monty, life is certainly not slow. You can dominate; you can make things go your
                        way. Aren't they going your way now, Monty"this more
                        seriously"What's wrong? Is the pace too fast?"
                    His mood increased upon him with her sympathy. "Oh, no," he said, "it
                        isn't that. You are goodand I'm a selfish beast. Things are perverse and
                        people are desperately obstinate sometimes. And here I'm taking it out on you. You are
                        not perverse. You are not obstinate. You are a ripper, Mrs. Dan, and you are going to help me
                        out in more ways than one."
                    "Well, to pay for all these gallantries, Monty, I ought to do much. I'm your
                        friend through thick and thin. You have only to command me."
                    "It was precisely to get your help that I came in. I'm tired of those
                        confounded dinners. You know yourself that they are all  alikethe
                        same people, the same flowers, the same things to eat, and the same inane twaddle in the shape
                        of talk. Who cares about them anyway?"
                    "Well, I like that," she interrupted. "After all the thought I put
                        into those dinners, after all the variety I so carefully secured! My dear boy, you are
                        frightfully ungrateful."
                    "Oh, you know what I mean And you know quite as well as I do that it is perfectly true.
                        The dinners were a beastly bore, which proves that they were a loud success. Your work was not
                        done in vain. But now I want something else. We must push along this ball we've been
                        talking of. And the yachting cruisethat can't wait very much longer."
                    "The ball first," she decreed. "I'll see to the cards at
                        once, and in a day or two I'll have a list ready for your gracious approval. And what
                        have you done?"
                    "Pettingill has some great ideas for doing over Sherry's. Harrison is in
                        communication with the manager of that Hungarian orchestra you spoke of, and he finds the men
                        quite ready for a little jaunt across the water. We have that military bandI've
                        forgotten the number of its regimentfor the promenade music, and the new Paris sensation, the
                        contralto, is coming  over with her primo tenore for some special
                        numbers."
                    "You were certainly cut out for an executive, Monty," said Mrs. Dan.
                        "But with the music and the decorations arranged, you've only begun. The
                        favors are the real thing, and if you say the word, we'll surprise them a little.
                        Don't worry about it, Monty. It's a go already. We'll pull it off
                        together."
                    "You are a thoroughbred, Mrs Dan," he exclaimed. "You do help a fellow
                        at a pinch."
                    "That's all right, Monty," she answered; "give me until after
                        Christmas and I'll have the finest favors ever seen. Other people may have their paper
                        hats and pink ribbons but you can show them how the thing ought to be done.
                    Her reference to Christmas haunted Brewster, as he drove down Fifth Avenue, with the dread of a
                        new disaster. Never before had he looked upon presents as a calamity; but this year it was
                        different. Immediately he began to plan a bombardment of his friends with costly trinkets, when
                        he grew suddenly doubtful of the opinion of his uncle's executor upon this move. But in
                        response to a telegram, Swearengen Jones, with pleasing irascibility, informed him that
                        "anyone with a drop of human kindness in his body would consider  it his duty to give Christmas presents to those who deserved them."
                        Monty's way was now clear. If his friends meant to handicap him with gifts, he knew a
                        way to get even. For two weeks his mornings were spent at Tiffany's, and the afternoons
                        brought joy to the heart of every dealer in antiquities in Fourth and Fifth Avenues. He gave
                        much thought to the matter in the effort to secure many small articles which elaborately
                        concealed their value. And he had taste. The result of his endeavor was that many friends who
                        would not have thought of remembering Monty with even a card were pleasantly surprised on
                        Christmas Eve.
                    As it turned out, he fared very well in the matter of gifts, and for some days much of his time
                        was spent in reading notes of profuse thanks, which were yet vaguely apologetic. The Grays and
                        Mrs. Dan had remembered him with an agreeable lack of ostentation, and some of the
                        "Little Sons of the Rich," who had kept one evening a fortnight open for the
                        purpose of "using up their meal-tickets" at Monty's, were only too
                        generously grateful. Miss Drew had forgotten him, and when they met after the holiday her
                        recognition was of the coldest. He had thought that, under the 
                        circumstances, he could send her a gift of value, but the beautiful pearls with which he asked
                        for a reconciliation were returned with "Miss Drew's thanks." He
                        loved Barbara sincerely, and it cut. Peggy Gray was taken into his confidence and he was
                        comforted by her encouragement. It was a bit difficult for her to advise him to try again, but
                        his happiness was a thing she had at heart.
                    "It's beastly unfair, Peggy," he said. "I've really
                        been white to her. I believe I'll chuck the whole business and leave New
                        York."
                    "You're going away?" and there was just a suggestion of a catch in her
                        breath.
                    "I'm going to charter a yacht and sail away from this place for three or four
                        months." Peggy fairly gasped. "What do you think of the scheme?" he
                        added, noticing the alarm and incredulity in her eyes.
                    "I think you'll end in the poor-house, Montgomery Brewster," she said,
                        with a laugh.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    A FRIEND IN NEED
                    It was while Brewster was in the depths of despair that his financial affairs had a windfall. One
                        of the banks in which his money was deposited failed and his balance of over $100,000 was wiped
                        out. Mismanagement was the cause and the collapse came on Friday, the thirteenth day of the
                        month. Needless to say it destroyed every vestige of the superstition he may have had regarding
                        Friday and the number thirteen.
                    Brewster had money deposited in five banks, a transaction inspired by the wild hope that one of
                        them might some day suspend operations and thereby prove a legitimate benefit to him. There
                        seemed no prospect that the bank could resume operations, and if the depositors in the end
                        realized twenty cents on the dollar they would be fortunate. Notwithstanding the fact that
                        everybody had considered the institution substantial there were not a few wiseacres who called
                        Brewster a fool and were so unreasonable as to say that he did not know how to  handle money. He heard that Miss Drew, in particular, was
                        bitterly sarcastic in referring to his stupidity.
                    This failure caused a tremendous flurry in banking circles. It was but natural that questions
                        concerning the stability of other banks should be asked, and it was not long before many wild,
                        disquieting reports were afloat. Anxious depositors rushed into the big banking institutions and
                        then rushed out again, partially assured that there was no danger. The newspapers sought to
                        allay the fears of the people, but there were many to whom fear became panic. There were short,
                        wild runs on some of the smaller banks, but all were in a fair way to restore confidence when
                        out came the rumor that the Bank of Manhattan Island was in trouble. Colonel Prentiss Drew,
                        railroad magnate, was the president of this bank.
                    When the bank opened for business on the Tuesday following the failure, there was a stampede of
                        frightened depositors. Before eleven o'clock the run had assumed ugly proportions and
                        no amount of argument could stay the onslaught. Colonel Drew and the directors, at first mildly
                        distressed, and then seeing that the affair had become serious, grew more alarmed than they
                        could afford to let the public  see. The loans of all of the banks
                        were unusually large. Incipient runs on some had put all of them in an attitude of caution and
                        there was a natural reluctance to expose their own interests to jeopardy by coming to the relief
                        of the Bank of Manhattan Island.
                    Monty Brewster had something like $200,000 in Colonel Drew's bank. He would not have
                        regretted on his own account the collapse of this institution, but he realized what it meant to
                        the hundreds of other depositors, and for the first time he appreciated what his money could
                        accomplish. Thinking that his presence might give confidence to the other depositors and stop
                        the run he went over to the bank with Harrison and Bragdon. The tellers were handing out
                        thousands of dollars to the eager depositors. His friends advised him strongly to withdraw
                        before it was too late, but Monty was obdurate. They set it down to his desire to help
                        Barbara's father and admired his nerve.
                    "I understand, Monty," said Bragdon, and both he and Harrison went among the
                        people carelessly asking one another if Brewster had come to withdraw his money. "No,
                        he has over $200,000, and he's going to leave it," the other would say.
                    
                    Each excited group was visited in turn by the two men, but their assurance seemed to accomplish
                        but little. These men and women were there to save their fortunes; the situation was desperate.
                    Colonel Drew, outwardly calm and serene, but inwardly perturbed, finally saw Brewster and his
                        companions. He sent a messenger over with the request that Monty come to the
                        president's private office at once.
                    "He wants to help you to save your money," cried Bragdon in low tones.
                        "That shows it's all up."
                    "Get out every dollar of it, Monty, and don't waste a minute. It's a
                        smash as sure as fate," urged Harrison, a feverish expression in his eyes.
                    Brewster was admitted to the Colonel's private office. Drew was alone and was pacing the
                        floor like a caged animal.
                    "Sit down, Brewster, and don't mind if I seem nervous. Of course we can hold
                        out, but it is terribleterrible. They think we are trying to rob them. They're
                        madutterly mad."
                    "I never saw anything like it, Colonel. Are you sure you can meet all the
                        demands?" asked Brewster, thoroughly excited. The Colonel's  face was white and he chewed his cigar nervously.
                    "We can hold out unless some of our heaviest depositors get the fever and swoop down
                        upon us. I appreciate your feelings in an affair of this kind, coming so swiftly upon the heels
                        of the other, but I want to give you my personal assurance that the money you have here is safe.
                        I called you in to impress you with the security of the bank. You ought to know the truth,
                        however, and I will tell you in confidence that another check like Austin's, which we
                        paid a few minutes ago, would cause us serious, though temporary, embarrassment."
                    "I came to assure you that I have not thought of withdrawing my deposits from this bank,
                        Colonel. You need have no uneasiness"
                    The door opened suddenly and one of the officials of the bank bolted inside, his face as white as
                        death. He started to speak before he saw Brewster, and then closed his lips despairingly.
                    "What is it, Mr. Moore?" asked Drew, as calmly as possible.
                        "Don't mind Mr. Brewster."
                    "Oglethorp wants to draw two hundred and  fifty thousand
                        dollars," said Moore in strained tones.
                    "Well, he can have it, can't he?" asked the Colonel quietly. Moore
                        looked helplessly at the president of the bank, and his silence spoke more plainly than words.
                    "Brewster, it looks bad," said the Colonel, turning abruptly to the young man.
                        The other banks are afraid of a run and we can't count on much help from them. Some of
                        them have helped us and others have refused. Now, I not only ask you to refrain from drawing out
                        your deposit, but I want you to help us in this crucial moment." The Colonel looked
                        twenty years older and his voice shook perceptibly. Brewster's pity went out to him in
                        a flash.
                    "What can I do, Colonel Drew?" he cried. "I'll not take my
                        money out, but I don't know how I can be of further assistance to you. Command me,
                        sir."
                    "You can restore absolute confidence, Monty, my dear boy, by increasing your deposits in
                        our bank," said the Colonel slowly, and as if dreading the fate of the suggestion.
                    "You mean, sir, that I can save the bank by drawing my money from other banks and
                        putting it here?" asked Monty, slowly. He  was thinking
                        harder and faster than he had ever thought in his life. Could he afford to risk the loss of his
                        entire fortune on the fate of this bank? What would Swearengen Jones say if he deliberately
                        deposited a vast amount of money in a tottering institution like the Bank of Manhattan Island?
                        It would be the maddest folly on his part if the bank went down. There could be no mitigating
                        circumstances in the eyes of either Jones or the world, if he swamped all of his money in this
                        crisis."
                    "I beg of you, Monty, help us." The Colonel's pride was gone.
                        "It means disgrace if we close our doors even for an hour; it means a stain that only
                        years can remove. You can restore confidence by a dozen strokes of your pen, and you can save
                        us."
                    He was Barbara's father. The proud old man was before him as a suppliant, no longer the
                        cold man of the world. Back to Brewster's mind came the thought of his quarrel with
                        Barbara and of her heartlessness. A scratch of the pen, one way or the other, could change the
                        life of Barbara Drew. The two bankers stood by scarcely breathing. From outside came the shuffle
                        of many feet and the muffled roll of voices. Again the door to the private office opened and a
                        clerk excitedly motioned  for Mr. Moore to hurry to the front of
                        the bank. Moore paused irresolutely, his eyes on Brewster's face. The young man knew
                        the time had come when he must help or deny them.
                    Like a flash the situation was made clear to him and his duty was plain. He remembered that the
                        Bank of Manhattan Island held every dollar that Mrs. Gray and Peggy possessed; their meager
                        fortune had been entrusted to the care of Prentiss Drew and his associates, and it was in
                        danger.
                    "I will do all I can, Colonel," said Monty, "but upon one
                        condition."
                    "That is?"
                    "Barbara must never know of this." The Colonel's gasp of astonishment
                        was cut short as Monty continued. "Promise that she shall never know."
                    "I don't understand, but if it is your wish I promise."
                    Inside of half an hour's time several hundred thousand came to the relief of the
                        struggling bank, and the man who had come to watch the run with curious eyes turned out to be
                        its savior. His money won the day for the Bank of Manhattan Island. When the happy president and
                        directors offered to pay him an  astonishingly high rate of
                        interest for the use of the money he proudly declined.
                    The next day Miss Drew issued invitations for a cotillion. Mr. Montgomery Brewster was not asked
                        to attend.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    MRS. DE MILLE ENTERTAINS
                    Miss Drew's cotillion was not graced by the presence of Montgomery Brewster. It is true
                        he received an eleventh-hour invitation and a very cold and difficult little note of apology,
                        but he maintained heroically the air of disdain that had succeeded the first sharp pangs of
                        disappointment. Colonel Drew, in whose good graces Monty had firmly established himself, was not
                        quite guiltless of usurping the rle of dictator in the effort to patch up a truce. A few nights
                        before the cotillion, when Barbara told him that Herbert Alling was to lead, he explosively
                        expressed surprise. "Why not Monty Brewster, Babs?" he demanded.
                    "Mr. Brewster is not coming," she responded calmly.
                    "Going to be out of town?"
                    "I'm sure I do not know," stiffly.
                    "What's this?"
                    "He has not been asked, father." Miss Drew was not in good humor.
                    
                    "Not asked?" said the Colonel in amazement. "It's ridiculous,
                        Babs, send him an invitation at once."
                    "This is my dance, father, and I don't want to ask Mr. Brewster."
                    The Colonel sank back in his chair and struggled to overcome his anger. He knew that Barbara had
                        inherited his willfulness, and had long since discovered that it was best to treat her with
                        tact.
                    "I thought you and he were"but the Colonel's supply of tact was
                        exhausted.
                    "We were"in a moment of absent mindedness. "But it's all
                        over," said Barbara.
                    "Why, child, there wouldn't have been a cotillion if it hadn't been
                        for" but the Colonel remembered his promise to Monty and checked himself just in time.
                        "II mean there will not be any party, if Montgomery Brewster is not asked. That is all
                        I care to say on the subject," and he stamped out of the room.
                    Barbara wept copiously after her father had gone, but she realized that his will was law and that
                        Monty must be invited. "I will send an invitation," she said to herself,
                        "but if Mr. Brewster comes after he has read it, I shall be surprised."
                    
                    Montgomery, however, did not receive the note in the spirit in which it had been sent. He only
                        saw in it a ray of hope that Barbara was relenting and was jubilant at the prospect of a
                        reconciliation. The next Sunday he sought an interview with Miss Drew, but she received him with
                        icy reserve. If he had thought to punish her by staying away, it was evident that she felt
                        equally responsible for a great deal of misery on his part. Both had been more or less unhappy,
                        and both were resentfully obstinate. Brewster felt hurt and insulted, while she felt that he had
                        imposed upon her disgracefully. He was now ready to cry quits and it surprised him to find her
                        obdurate. If he had expected to dictate the terms of peace he was woefully disappointed when she
                        treated his advances with cool contempt.
                    "Barbara, you know I care very much for you," he was pleading, fairly on the
                        road to submission. "I am sure you are not quite indifferent to me. This foolish
                        misunderstanding must really be as disagreeable to you as it is to me."
                    "Indeed," she replied, lifting her brows disdainfully. "You are
                        assuming a good deal, Mr. Brewster."
                    
                    "I am merely recalling the fact that you once told me you cared. You would not promise
                        anything, I know, but it meant much that you cared. A little difference could not have changed
                        your feeling completely."
                    "When you are ready to treat me with respect I may listen to your petition,"
                        she said, rising haughtily.
                    "My petition?" He did not like the word and his tact quite deserted him.
                        "It's as much yours as mine. Don't throw the burden of responsibility
                        on me, Miss Drew."
                    "Have I suggested going back to the old relations? You will pardon me if I remind you of
                        the fact that you came to-day on your own initiative and certainly without my
                        solicitation."
                    "Now, look here, Barbara" he began, dimly realizing that it was going to be
                        hard, very hard, to bring her to reason.
                    "I am very sorry, Mr. Brewster, but you will have to excuse me. I am going
                        out."
                    "I regret exceedingly that I should have disturbed you to-day, Miss Drew," he
                        said swallowing his pride. "Perhaps I may have the pleasure of seeing you
                        again."
                    As he was leaving the house, deep anger in his soul, he encountered the Colonel. There  was something about Monty's greeting, cordial as it was,
                        that gave the older man a hint as to the situation.
                    "Won't you stop for dinner, Monty?" he asked, in the hope that his
                        suspicion was groundless.
                    "Thank you, Colonel, not to-night," and he was off before the Colonel could
                        hold him.
                    Barbara was tearfully angry when her father came into the room, but as he began to remonstrate
                        with her the tears disappeared and left her at white heat.
                    "Frankly, father, you don't understand matters," she said with slow
                        emphasis; "I wish you to know now that if Montgomery Brewster calls again, I shall not
                        see him."
                    "If that is your point of view, Barbara, I wish you to know mine." The Colonel
                        rose and stood over her, everything forgotten but the rage that went so deep that it left the
                        surface calm. Throwing aside his promise to Brewster, he told Barbara with dramatic simplicity
                        the story of the rescue of the bank. "You see," he added, "if it had
                        not been for that open-hearted boy we would now be ruined. Instead of giving cotillions, you
                        might be giving music lessons. Montgomery Brewster will always be welcome in this house  and you will see that my wishes are respected. Do you
                        understand?"
                    "Perfectly," Barbara answered in a still voice. "As your friend I
                        shall try to be civil to him."
                    The Colonel was not satisfied with so cold-blooded an acquiescence, but he wisely retired from
                        the field. He left the girl silent and crushed, but with a gleam in her eyes that was not
                        altogether to be concealed. The story had touched her more deeply than she would willingly
                        confess. It was something to know that Monty Brewster could do a thing like that, and would do
                        it for her. The exultant smile which it brought to her lips could only be made to disappear by
                        reminding herself sharply of his recent arrogance. Her anger, she found, was a plant which
                        needed careful cultivation.
                    It was in a somewhat chastened mood that she started a few days later for a dinner at the
                        DeMille's. As she entered in her sweeping golden gown the sight of Monty Brewster at
                        the other end of the room gave her a flutter at the heart. But it was an agitation that was very
                        carefully concealed. Brewster was certainly unconscious of it. To him the position of guest was
                        like a disguise and he  was pleased at the prospect of letting
                        himself go under the mask without responsibility. But it took on a different color when the
                        butler handed him a card which signified that he was to take Miss Drew in to dinner. Hastily
                        seeking out the hostess he endeavored to convey to her the impossibility of the situation.
                    "I hope you won't misunderstand me," he said. "But is it too
                        late to change my place at the table?"
                    "It isn't conventional, I know, Monty. Society's chief aim is to
                        separate engaged couples at dinner," said Mrs. Dan with a laugh. "It would be
                        positively compromising if a man and his wife sat together."
                    Dinner was announced before Monty could utter another word, and as she led him over to Barbara
                        she said, "Behold a generous hostess who gives up the best man in the crowd so that he
                        and someone else may have a happy time. I leave it to you, Barbara, if that isn't the
                        test of friendship."
                    For a moment the two riveted their eyes on the floor. then the humor of the situation came to
                        Monty.
                    "I did not know that we were supposed to do Gibson tableaux to-night," he said
                        drily as he proffered his arm.
                    
                    "I don't understand," and Barbara's curiosity overcame her
                        determination not to speak.
                    "Don't you remember the picture of the man who was called upon to take his late
                        fiance out to dinner?"
                    The awful silence with which this remark was received put an end to further efforts at humor.
                    The dinner was probably the most painful experience in their lives. Barbara had come to it
                        softened and ready to meet him half way. The right kind of humility in Monty would have found
                        her plastic. But she had very definite and rigid ideas of his duty in the premises. And Monty
                        was too simple minded to seem to suffer, and much too flippant to understand. It was plain to
                        each that the other did not expect to talk, but they both realized that they owed a duty to
                        appearances and to their hostess. Through two courses, at least, there was dead silence between
                        them. It seemed as though every eye in the room were on them and every mind were speculating. At
                        last, in sheer desperation, Barbara turned to him with the first smile he had seen on her face
                        in days. There was no smile in her eyes, however, and Monty understood.
                    
                    "We might at least give out the impression that we are friends," she said
                        quietly.
                    "More easily said than done," he responded gloomily.
                    "They are all looking at us and wondering."
                    "I don't blame them."
                    "We owe something to Mrs. Dan, I think."
                    "I know."
                    Barbara uttered some inanity whenever she caught anyone looking in their direction, but Brewster
                        seemed not to hear. At length he cut short some remark of hers about the weather.
                    "What nonsense this is, Barbara," he said. "With anyone else I would
                        chuck the whole game, but with you it is different. I don't know what I have done, but
                        I am sorry. I hope you'll forgive me."
                    "Your assurance is amusing, to say the least."
                    "But I am sure. I know this quarrel is something we'll laugh over. You keep
                        forgetting that we are going to be married someday."
                    A new light came into Barbara's eyes. "You forget that my consent may be
                        necessary," she said.
                    "You will be perfectly willing when the time  comes. I am
                        still in the fight and eventually you will come to my way of thinking."
                    "Oh! I see it now," said Barbara, and her blood was up. "You mean to
                        force me to it. What you did for father"
                    Brewster glowered at her, thinking that he had misunderstood. "What do you
                        mean?" he said.
                    "He has told me all about that wretched bank business. But poor father thought you quite
                        disinterested. He did not see the little game behind your melodrama. He would have torn up your
                        check on the instant if he had suspected you were trying to buy his daughter."
                    "Does your father believe that?" asked Brewster.
                    "No, but I see it all now. His persistence and yoursyou were not slow to grasp the
                        opportunity he offered."
                    "Stop, Miss Drew," Monty commanded. His voice had changed and she had never
                        before seen that look in his eyes. "You need have no fear that I will trouble you
                        again."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    THE CUT DIRECT
                    A typographical error in one of the papers caused no end of amusement to every one except Monty
                        and Miss Drew. The headlines had announced: "Magnificent ball to be given Miss Drew by
                        her Finance," and the "Little Sons of the Rich" wondered why Monty
                        did not see the humor of it.
                    "He has too bad an attack to see anything but the lady," said Harrison one
                        evening when the "Sons" were gathered for an old-time supper party.
                    "It's always the way," commented the philosophical Bragdon.
                        "When you lose your heart your sense of humor goes too. Engaged couples
                        couldn't do such ridiculous stunts if they had the least particle of it left."
                    "Well if Monty Brewster is still in love with Miss Drew he takes a mighty poor way of
                        showing it." "Subway" Smith's remark fell like a bombshell.
                        The thought had come to everyone, but no one had been given the courage to utter it. For them
                        Brewster's  silence on the subject since the DeMille
                        dinner seemed to have something ominous behind it.
                    "It's probably only a lover's quarrel," said Bragdon. But
                        further comment was cut short by the entrance of Monty himself, and they took their places at
                        table.
                    Before the evening came to an end they were in possession of many astonishing details in
                        connection with the coming ball. Monty did not say that it was to be given for Miss Drew and her
                        name was conspicuously absent from his descriptions. As he unfolded his plans even the
                        "Little Sons," who were imaginative by instinct and reckless on principle,
                        could not be quite acquiescent.
                    "Nopper" Harrison solemnly expressed the opinion that the ball would cost
                        Brewster at least $125,000. The "Little Sons" looked at one another in
                        consternation, while Brewster's indifference expressed itself in an unflattering
                        comment upon his friend's vulgarity. "Good Lord, Nopper," he added;
                        "you would speculate about the price of gloves for your wedding."
                    Harrison resented the taunt. "It would be much less vulgar to do that, Monty, saving
                        your presence, than to force your millions down everyone's throat."
                    
                    "Well, they swallow them, I've noticed," retorted Brewster,
                        "as though they were chocolates."
                    Pettingill interrupted grandiloquently. "My friends and gentlemen!"
                    "Which is which?" asked Van Winkle, casually.
                    But the artist was in the saddle. "Permit me to present you to the boy Crsusthe only one
                        extant. His marbles are plunks and his kites are made of fifty-dollar notes. He feeds upon
                        coupons la Newburgh, and his champagne is liquid golden eagles. Look at him, gentlemen, while
                        you can, and watch him while he spends thirteen thousand dollars for flowers!"
                    "With a Viennese orchestra for twenty-nine thousand!" added Bragdon.
                        "And yet they maintain that silence is golden."
                    "And three singers to divide twelve thousand among themselves! That's
                        absolutely criminal," cried Van Winkle. "Over in Germany they'd sing
                        a month for half that amount."
                    "Six hundred guests to feedtotal cost of not less than forty thousand dollars,"
                        groaned "Nopper," dolefully.
                    "And there aren't six hundred in town," 
                        lamented "Subway" Smith. "All that glory wasted on two hundred rank
                        outsiders."
                    "You men are borrowing a lot of trouble," yawned Brewster with a gallant effort
                        to seem bored. "All I ask of you is to come to the party and put up a good imitation of
                        having the time of your life. Between you and me I'd rather be caught at
                        Huyler's drinking ice cream soda than giving this thing. But"
                    "That's what we want to know, but what?" and
                        "Subway" leaned forward eagerly.
                    "But," continued Monty, "I am in for it now, and it is going to be a
                        ball that is a ball."
                    Nevertheless the optimistic Brewster could not find the courage to tell Peggy of these
                        picturesque extravagances. To satisfy her curiosity he blandly informed her that he was getting
                        off much more cheaply than he had expected. He laughingly denounced as untrue the stories that
                        had come to her from outside sources. And before his convincing assertions that reports were
                        ridiculously exaggerated, the troubled expression in the girl's eyes disappeared.
                    "I must seem a fool," groaned Monty, as he left the house after one of these
                        explanatory trials, "but what will she think of me toward  the end of the year when I am really in harness." He found it hard to control the
                        desire to be straight with Peggy and tell her the story of his mad race in pursuit of poverty.
                    Preparations for the ball went on steadily, and in a dull winter it had its color value for
                        society. It was to be a Spanish costume-ball, and at many tea-tables the talk of it was a
                        god-send. Sarcastic as it frequently was on the question of Monty's extravagance, there
                        was a splendor about the Aladdin-like entertainment which had a charm. Beneath the outward
                        disapproval there was a secret admiration of the superb nerve of the man. And there was little
                        reluctance to help him in the wild career he had chosen. It was so easy to go with him to the
                        edge of the precipice and let him take the plunge alone. Only the echo of the criticism reached
                        Brewster, for he had silenced Harrison with work and Pettingill with opportunities. It troubled
                        him little, as he was engaged in jotting down items that swelled the profit side of his ledger
                        account enormously. The ball was bound to give him a good lead in the race once more, despite
                        the heavy handicap the Stock Exchange had imposed. The "Little Sons" took off
                        their coats and helped  Pettingill in the work of preparation. He
                        found them quite superfluous, for their ideas never agreed and each man had a way of preferring
                        his own suggestion. To Brewster's chagrin they were united in the effort to curb his
                        extravagance.
                    'He'll be giving automobiles and ropes of pearls for favors if we
                        don't stop him," said "Subway" Smith, after Monty had
                        ordered a vintage champagne to be served during the entire evening. "Give them two
                        glasses first, if you like, and then they won't mind if they have cider the rest of the
                        night."
                    "Monty is plain dotty," chimed in Bragdon, "and the pace is beginning
                        to tell on him."
                    As a matter of fact the pace was beginning to tell on Brewster. Work and worry were plainly
                        having an effect on his health. His color was bad, his eyes were losing their lustre, and there
                        was a listlessness in his actions that even determined effort could not conceal from his
                        friends. Little fits of fever annoyed him occasionally and he admitted that he did not feel
                        quite right.
                    "Something is wrong somewhere," he said, ruefully, "and my whole
                        system seems ready to stop work through sympathy."
                    Suddenly there was a mighty check to the  preparations. Two days
                        before the date set for the ball everything came to a standstill and the managers sank back in
                        perplexity and consternation. Monty Brewster was critically ill.
                    Appendicitis, the doctors called it, and an operation was imperative.
                    "Thank heaven it's fashionable," laughed Monty, who showed no fear of
                        the prospect. "How ridiculous if it had been the mumps, or if the newspapers had said,
                        'On account of the whooping-cough, Mr. Brewster did not attend his
                        ball.'"
                    "You don't mean to saythe ball is off, of course," and Harrison was
                        really alarmed.
                    "Not a bit of it, Nopper," said Monty. "It's what
                        I've been wanting all along. you chaps do the handshaking and I stay at home."
                    There was an immediate council of war when this piece of news was announced, and the
                        "Little Sons" were unanimous in favor of recalling the invitations and
                        declaring the party off. At first Monty was obdurate, but when some one suggested that he could
                        give the ball later on, after he was well, he relented. The opportunity to double the cost by
                        giving two parties was not to be ignored.
                    "Call it off, then, but say that it is only postponed."
                    
                    A great rushing to and fro resulted in the cancelling of contracts, the recalling of invitations,
                        the settling of accounts, with the most loyal effort to save as much as possible from the
                        wreckage. Harrison and his associates, almost frantic with fear for Brewster's life,
                        managed to perform wonders in the few hours of grace. Gardner, with rare foresight, saw that the
                        Viennese orchestra would prove a dead loss. He suggested the possibility of a concert tour
                        through the country, covering several weeks, and Monty, too ill to care one way or the other,
                        authorized him to carry out the plan if it seemed feasible.
                    To Monty, fearless and less disturbed than any other member of his circle, appendicitis seemed as
                        inevitable as vaccination.
                    "The appendix is becoming an important feature in the Book of Life," he once
                        told Peggy Gray.
                    He refused to go to a hospital, but pathetically begged to be taken to his old rooms at Mrs.
                        Gray's.
                    With all the unhappy loneliness of a sick boy, he craved the care and companionship of those who
                        seemed a part of his own. Dr Lotless had them transform a small bedchamber into a model
                        operating room and Monty took  no small satisfaction in the
                        thought that if he was to be denied the privilege of spending money for several weeks, he would
                        at least make his illness as expensive as possible. A consultation of eminent surgeons was
                        called, but true to his colors, Brewster installed Dr. Lotless, a "Little
                        Son," as his house surgeon. Monty grimly bore the pain and suffering and submitted to
                        the operation which alone could save his life. Then came the struggle, then the promise of
                        victory and then the quiet days of convalescence. In the little room where he had dreamed his
                        boyish dreams and suffered his boyish sorrows, he struggled against death and gradually emerged
                        from the mists of lassitude. He found it harder than he had thought to come back to life. The
                        burden of it all seemed heavy. The trained nurses found that some more powerful stimulant than
                        the medicine was needed to awaken his ambition, and they discovered it at last in Peggy.
                    "Child," he said to her the first time she was permitted to see him, and his
                        eyes had lights in them; "do you know, this isn't such a bad old world after
                        all. Sometimes as I've lain here, it has looked twisted and queer. But there are things
                        that straighten it out. To-day I feel as though I had a place in itas  though I could fight things and win out. What do you think, Peggy? Do you suppose
                        there is something that I could do? You know what I meansomething that some one else would not
                        do a thousand times better."
                    But Peggy, to whom this chastened mood in Monty was infinitely pathetic, would not let him talk.
                        She soothed him and cheered him and touched his hair with her cool hands. And then she left him
                        to think and brood and dream.
                    It was many days before his turbulent mind drifted to the subject of money, but suddenly he found
                        himself hoping that the surgeons would be generous with their charges. He almost suffered a
                        relapse when Lotless, visibly distressed, informed him that the total amount would reach three
                        thousand dollars.
                    "And what is the additional charge for the operation?" asked Monty, unwilling
                        to accept such unwarranted favors.
                    "It's included in the three thousand," said Lotless. They knew you
                        were my friend and it was professional etiquette to help keep down expenses."
                    For days Brewster remained at Mrs. Gray's, happy in its restfulness, serene under the
                        charm of Peggy's presence, and satisfied to be hopelessly  behind in his daily expense account. The interest shown by the inquiries at the house and the
                        anxiety of his friends were soothing to the profligate. It gave him back a little of his lost
                        self-respect. The doctors finally decided that he would best recuperate in Florida, and advised
                        a month at least in the warmth. He leaped at the proposition, but took the law into his own
                        hands by ordering General Manager Harrison to rent a place, and insisting that he needed the
                        companionship of Peggy and Mrs. Gray.
                    "How soon can I get back to work, Doctor?" demanded Monty, the day before the
                        special train was to carry him south. He was beginning to see the dark side of this enforced
                        idleness. His blood again was tingling with the desire to be back in the harness of a
                        spendthrift.
                    "To work?" laughed the physician. "And what is your occupation,
                        pray?"
                    "Making other people rich," responded Brewster, soberly.
                    "Well, aren't you satisfied with what you have done for me? If you are as
                        charitable as that you may be on your feet again in five or six weeks."
                    
                    Harrison came in as Lotless left. Peggy smiled at him from the window. She had been reading aloud
                        from a novel so garrulous that it fairly cried aloud for interruptions.
                    "Now, Nopper, what became of the ball I was going to give?" demanded Monty, a
                        troubled look in his eyes.
                    "Why, we called it off," said "Nopper," in surprise.
                    "Don't you remember, Monty?" asked Peggy, looking up quickly, and
                        wondering if his mind had gone trailing off.
                    "I know we didn't give it, of course; but what date did you hit upon?"
                    "We didn't postpone it at all," said "Nopper." How
                        could we? We didn't know whetherI mean, it wouldn't have been quite right to
                        do that sort of thing."
                    "I understand. Well, what has become of the orchestra, and the flowers, and all
                        that?"
                    "The orchestra is gallivanting around the country, quarreling with itself and everybody
                        else, and driving poor Gardner to the insane asylum. The flowers have lost their bloom long
                        ago."
                    "Well, we'll get together, Nopper, and try to have the ball at mid-Lent. I
                        think I'll be well by that time."
                    
                    Peggy looked appealingly at Harrison for guidance, but to him silence seemed the better part of
                        valor, and he went off wondering if the illness had completely carried away Monty's
                        reason.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    IN THE SUNNY SOUTH
                    It was the cottage of a New York millionaire which had fallen to Brewster. The owner had, for the
                        time, preferred Italy to St. Augustine, and left his estate, which was well located and lavishly
                        equipped, in the hands of his friends. Brewster's lease covered three months, at a
                        fabulous rate per month. With Joe Bragdon installed as manager-in-chief, his establishment was
                        tranferred bodily from New York, and the rooms were soon as comfortable as their grandeur would
                        permit. Brewster was not allowed to take advantage of his horses and the new automobile which
                        preceded him from New York, but to his guests they offered unlimited opportunities.
                        "Nopper" Harrison had remained in the north to renew arrangements for the now
                        hated ball and to look after the advance details of the yacht cruise. Dr. Lotless and his
                        sister, with "Subway" Smith and the Grays, made up Brewster's party.
                        Lotless dampened Monty's spirits by relentlessly putting him on rigid diet, with most
                        discouraging  restrictions upon his conduct. The period of
                        convalescence was to be an exceedingly trying one for the invalid. At first he was kept
                        in-doors, and the hours were whiled away by playing cards. But Monty considered
                        "bridge" the "pons asinorum," and preferred to play piquet
                        with Peggy. It was one of these games that the girl interrupted with a question that had
                        troubled her for many days. "Monty," she said, and she found it much more
                        difficult than when she had rehearsed the scene in the silence of her walks;
                        "I've heard a rumor that Miss Drew and her mother have taken rooms at the
                        hotel. Wouldn't it be pleasanter to have them here?"
                    A heavy gloom settled upon Brewster's face, and the girl's heart dropped like
                        lead. She had puzzled over the estrangement, and wondered if by any effort of her own things
                        could be set right. At times she had had flashing hopes that it did not mean as much to Monty as
                        she had thought. But down underneath, the fear that he was unhappy seemed the only certain thing
                        in life. She felt that she must make sure. And together with the very human desire to know the
                        worst, was the puritanical impulse to bring it about.
                    "You forget that this is the last place they  would care
                        to invade." And in Brewster's face Peggy seemed to read that for her martyrdom
                        was the only wear. Bravely she put it on.
                    "Monty, I forget nothing that I really know. But this is a case in which you are quite
                        wrong. Where is your sporting blood? You have never fought a losing fight before, and you
                        can't do it now. You have lost your nerve, Monty. Don't you see that this is
                        the time for an aggressive campaign?" Somehow she was not saying things at all as she
                        had planned to say them. And his gloom weighed heavily upon her. "You don't
                        mind, do you, Monty," she added, more softly, "this sort of thing from me? I
                        know I ought not to interfere, but I've known you so long. And I hate to see things
                        twisted by a very little mistake."
                    But Monty did mind enormously. He had no desire to talk about the thing anyway, and
                        Peggy's anxiety to marry him off seemed a bit unnecessary. Manifestly her own interest
                        in him was of the coldest. From out of the gloom he looked at her somewhat sullenly. For the
                        moment she was thinking only of his pain, and her face said nothing.
                    "Peggy," he exclaimed, finally, resenting the necessity of answering her,
                        "you don't in the least know what you are talking about. It  is not a fit of anger on Barbara Drew's part. It is a
                        serious conviction."
                    "A conviction which can be changed," the girl broke in.
                    "Not at all." Brewster took it up. "She has no faith in me. She thinks
                        I'm an ass."
                    "Perhaps she's right," she exclaimed, a little hot. "Perhaps
                        you have never discovered that girls say many things to hide their emotions. Perhaps you
                        don't realize what feverish, exclamatory, foolish things girls are. They don't
                        know how to be honest with the men they love, and they wouldn't if they did. You are
                        little short of an idiot, Monty Brewster, if you believed the things she said rather than the
                        things she looked."
                    And Peggy, fiery and determined and defiantly unhappy, threw down her cards and escaped so that
                        she might not prove herself tearfully feminine. She left Brewster still heavily enveloped in
                        melancholy; but she left him puzzled. He began to wonder if Barbara Drew did have something in
                        the back of her mind. Then he found his thoughts wandering off toward Peggy and her defiance. He
                        had only twice before seen her in that mood, and he liked it. He remembered how she had lost her
                        temper once when she was fifteen, and  hated a girl he admired.
                        Suddenly he laughed aloud at the thought of the fierce little picture she had made, and the
                        gloom, which had been so sedulously cultivated, was dissipated in a moment. The laugh surprised
                        the man who brought in some letters. One of them was from "Nopper" Harrison,
                        and gave him all the private news. The ball was to be given at mid-Lent, which arrived toward
                        the end of March, and negotiations were well under way for the chartering of the
                        "Flitter," the steam-yacht belonging to Reginald Brown, late of Brown
                        & Brown.
                    The letter made Brewster chafe under the bonds of inaction. His affairs were getting into a
                        discouraging state. The illness was certain to entail a loss of more than $50,000 to his
                        business. His only consolation came through Harrison's synopsis of the reports from
                        Gardner, who was managing the brief American tour of the Viennese orchestra. Quarrels and
                        dissensions were becoming every-day embarrassments, and the venture was an utter failure from a
                        financial point of view. Broken contracts and lawsuits were turning the tour into one continuous
                        round of losses, and poor Gardner was on the point of despair. From the beginning, apparently,
                        the concerts had been  marked for disaster. Public indifference
                        had aroused the scorn of the irascible members of the orchestra, and there was imminent danger
                        of a collapse in the organization. Gardner lived in constant fear that his troop of quarrel-some
                        Hungarians would finish their tour suddenly in a pitched battle with daggers and steins.
                        Brewster smiled at the thought of the practical Gardner trying to smooth down the electric
                        emotions of these musicians.
                    A few days later Mrs. Prentiss Drew and Miss Drew registered at the Ponce de Leon, and there was
                        much speculation upon the chances for a reconciliation. Monty, however, maintained a strict
                        silence on the subject, and refused to satisfy the curiosity of his friends. Mrs. Drew had
                        brought down a small crowd, including two pretty Kentucky girls and a young Chicago millionaire.
                        She lived well and sensibly, and with none of the extravagance that characterized the cottage.
                        Yet it was inevitable that Brewster's guests should see hers and join some of their
                        riding parties. Monty pleaded that he was not well enough to be in these evcursions, but neither
                        he nor Barbara cared to over-emphasize their estrangement.
                    Peggy Gray was in despair over Monty's attitude.  She had
                        become convinced that behind his pride he was cherishing a secret longing for Barbara. Yet she
                        could not see how the walls were to be broken down if he maintained this icy reserve. She was
                        sure that the masterful tone was the one to win with a girl like that, but evidently Monty would
                        not accept advice. That he was mistaken about Barbara's feeling she did not doubt for a
                        moment, and she saw things going hopelessly wrong for want of a word. There were times when she
                        let herself dream of possibilities, but they always ended by seeming too impossible. She cared
                        too much to make the attainment of her vision seem simple. She cared too much to be sure of
                        anything.
                    At moments she fancied that she might say a word to Miss Drew which would straighten things out.
                        But there was something about her which held her off. Even now that they were thrown together
                        more or less she could not get beyond a certain barrier. It was not until a sunny day when she
                        had accepted Barbara's invitation to drive that things seemed to go more easily. For
                        the first time she felt the charm of the girl, and for the first time Barbara seemed
                        unreservedly friendly. It was a quiet drive they were taking through the woods  and out along the beach, and somehow in the open air things
                        simplified themselves. Finally, in the softness and the idle warmth, even an allusion to Monty,
                        whose name usually meant an embarrassing change of subject, began to seem possible. It was
                        inevitable that Peggy should bring it in; for with her a question of tact was never allowed to
                        dominate when things of moment were at stake. She cowered before the plunge, but she took it
                        unafraid.
                    "The doctor says Monty may go out driving tomorrow," she began.
                        "Isn't that fine?"
                    Barbara's only response was to touch her pony a little too sharply with the whip. Peggy
                        went on as if unconscious of the challenge.
                    "He has been bored to death, poor fellow, in the house all this time, and "
                    "Miss Gray, please do not mention Mr. Brewster's name to me again,"
                        interrupted Barbara, with a contraction of the eyebrows. But Peggy was seized with a spirit of
                        defiance and plunged recklessly on.
                    "What is the use, Miss Drew, of taking an attitude like that? I know the situation
                        pretty well, and I can't believe that either Monty or you has lost in a week a feeling
                        that was so deep-seated. I know Monty much too well to  think that
                        he would change so easily." Peggy still lived largely in her ideals. "And you
                        are too fine a thing not to have suffered under this misunderstanding. It seems as if a very
                        small word would set you both straight."
                    Barbara drew herself up and kept her eyes on the road which lay white and gleaming in the sun.
                        "I have not the least desire to be set straight." And she was never more
                        serious.
                    "But it was only a few weeks ago that you were engaged."
                    "I am sorry," answered Barbara, "that it should have been talked about
                        so much. Mr. Brewster did ask me to marry him, but I never accepted. In fact, it was only his
                        persistence that made me consider the matter at all. I did think about it. I confess that I
                        rather liked him. But it was not long before I found him out."
                    "What do you mean?" And there was a flash in Peggy's eyes.
                        "What has he done?"
                    "To my certain knowledge he has spent more than four hundred thousand dollars since last
                        September. That is something, is it not?" Miss Drew said, in her slow, cool voice, and
                        even Peggy's loyalty admitted some justification in the criticism.  "Generosity has ceased to be a virtue then?" she asked coldly.
                    "Generosity!" exclaimed Barbara, sharply. "It's sheer idiocy.
                        Haven't you heard the things people are saying? They are calling him a fool, and in the
                        clubs they are betting that he will be a pauper within a year."
                    "Yet they charitably help him to spend his money. And I have noticed that even worldly
                        mammas find him eligible." The comment was not without its caustic side.
                    "That was months ago, my dear," protested Barbara, calmly. "When he
                        spoke to mehe told me it would be impossible for him to marry within a year. And don't
                        you see that a year may make him an abject beggar?"
                    "Naturally anything is preferable to a beggar," came in Peggy's clear,
                        soft voice.
                    Barbara hesitated only a moment.
                    "Well, you must admit, Miss Gray, that it shows a shameful lack of character. How could
                        any girl be happy with a man like that? And, after all, one must look out for one's own
                        fate."
                    "Undoubtedly," replied Peggy, but many thoughts were dashing through her brain.
                    "Shall we turn back to the cottage?" she said, after an awkward silence.
                    
                    "You certainly don't approve of Mr. Brewster's conduct?"
                        Barbara did not like to be placed in the wrong, and felt that she must endeavor to justify
                        herself. "He is the most reckless of spendthrifts, we know, and he probably indulges in
                        even less respectable excitement."
                    Peggy was not tall, but she carried her head at this moment as though she were in the habit of
                        looking down on the world.
                    "Aren't you going a little too far, Miss Drew?" she asked placidly.
                    "It is not only New York that laughs over his Quixotic transactions," Barbara
                        persisted. "Mr. Hampton, our guest from Chicago, says the stories are worse out there
                        than they are in the east."
                    "It is a pity that Monty's illness should have made him so weak," said
                        Peggy quietly, as they turned in through the great iron gates, and Barbara was not slow to see
                        the point.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    THE NEW TENDERFOOT
                    Brewster was comparatively well and strong when he returned to New York in March. His illness had
                        interfered extensively with his plan of campaign and it was imperative that he redouble his
                        efforts, notwithstanding the manifest dismay of his friends. His first act was to call upon
                        Grant & Ripley, from whom he hoped to learn what Swearengen Jones thought of his
                        methods. The lawyers had heard no complaint from Montana, and advised him to continue as he had
                        begun, assuring him, as far as they could, that Jones would not prove unreasonable.
                    An exchange of telegrams just before his operation had renewed Monty's dread of his
                        eccentric mentor.
                    New York, Jan. 6, 19
                    SWEARENGEN JONES, Butte, Mont.
                    How about having my life insured? Would it violate conditions?
                    MONTGOMERY BREWSTER.
                    
                    TO MONTGOMERY BREWSTER, New York.
                    Seems to me your life would become an asset in that case. Can you dispose of it before September
                        23d?
                    JONES.
                    TO SWEARENGEN JONES, Butte, Mont.
                    On the contrary I think life will be a debt by that time.
                    MONTGOMERY BREWSTER.
                    TO MONTGOMERY BREWSTER, New York.
                    If you feel that way about it, I advise you to take out a $500 policy.
                    JONES.
                    TO SWEARENGEN JONES, Butte, Mont.
                    Do you think that amount would cover funeral expenses?
                    MONTGOMERY BREWSTER.
                    TO MONTGOMERY BREWSTER, New York.
                    You won't be caring about expenses if it comes to that.
                    JONES.
                    The invitations for the second ball had been out for some time and the preparations were nearly
                        complete when Brewster arrived upon the scene of festivity. It did not surprise him that several
                        old-time friends should hunt him up and protest vigorously against the course he  was pursuing. Nor did it surprise him when he found that his
                        presence was not as essential to the success of some other affair as it had once been. He was
                        not greeted as cordially as before, and he grimly wondered how many of his friends would stand
                        true to the end. The uncertainty made him turn more and more often to the unquestioned loyalty
                        of Peggy Gray, and her little library saw him more frequently than for months.
                    Much as he had dreaded the pretentious and resplendent ball, it was useful to him in one way at
                        least. The "profit" side of his ledger account was enlarged and in that there
                        was room for secret satisfaction. The Viennese orchestra straggled into New York, headed by Elon
                        Gardner, a physical wreck, in time to make a harmonious farewell appearance behind
                        Brewster's palms, which caused his guests to wonder why the American public could not
                        appreciate the real thing. A careful summing up of the expenses and receipts proved that the
                        tour had been a bonanza for Brewster. The net loss was a trifle more than $56,000. When this
                        story became known about town, everybody laughed pityingly, and poor Gardner was almost in tears
                        when he tried to explain the disaster to the man who lost the money. But Monty's  sense of humor, singularly enough, did not desert him on this
                        trying occasion.
                    sthetically the ball proved to be the talk of more than one season. Pettingill had justified his
                        desire for authority and made a name which would last. He had taken matters into his own hands
                        while Brewster was in Florida, and changed the period from the Spain of Velasquez to France and
                        Louis Quinze. After the cards were out he remembered, to his consternation, that the favors
                        purchased for the Spanish ball would be entirely inappropriate for the French one. He wired
                        Brewster at once of this misfortune, and was astonished at the nonchalance of his reply.
                        "But then Monty always was a good sort," he thought, with a glow of affection.
                        The new plan was more costly than the old, for it was no simple matter to build a Versailles
                        suite at Sherry's. Pettingill was no imitator, but he created an effect which was
                        superbly in keeping with the period he had chosen. Against it the rich costumes, with their
                        accompaniment of wigs and powdered hair, shone out resplendent. With great difficulty the artist
                        had secured for Monty a costume in white satin and gold brocade, which might once have adorned
                        the person of Louis himself. It  made him feel like a popinjay,
                        and it was with infinite relief that he took it off an hour or so after dawn. He knew that
                        things had gone well, that even Mrs. Dan was satisfied; but the whole affair made him heartsick.
                        Behind the compliments lavished upon him he detected a note of irony, which revealed the
                        laughter that went on behind his back. He had not realized how much it would hurt. "For
                        two cents," he thought, "I'd give up the game and be satisfied with
                        what's left." But he reflected that such a course would offer no chance to
                        redeem himself. Once again he took up the challenge and determined to win out.
                        "Then," he thought exultantly, "I'll make them feel this a
                        bit."
                    He longed for the time when he could take his few friends with him and sail away to the
                        Mediterranean to escape the eyes and tongues of New York. Impatiently he urged Harrison to
                        complete the arrangements, so that they could start at once. But Harrison's face was
                        not untroubled when he made his report. All the preliminary details had been perfected. He had
                        taken the "Flitter" for four months, and it was being overhauled and put into
                        condition for the voyage. It had been Brown's special pride, but at his death it went
                             to heirs who were ready and eager to rent it to the highest
                        bidder. It would not have been easy to find a handsomer yacht in New York waters. A picked crew
                        of fifty men were under command of Captain Abner Perry. The steward was a famous manager and
                        could be relied upon to stock the larder in princely fashion. The boat would be in readiness to
                        sail by the tenth of April.
                    "I think you are going in too heavily, Monty," protested Harrison, twisting his
                        fingers nervously. "I can't for my life figure how you can get out for less
                        than a fortune, if we do everything you have in mind. Wouldn't it be better to pull up
                        a bit? This looks like sheer madness. You won't have a dollar, Montyhonestly you
                        won't."
                    "It's not in me to save money, Nopper, but if you can pull out a few dollars
                        for yourself I shall not object."
                    "You told me that once before, Monty," said Harrison, as he walked to the
                        window. When he resolutely turned back again to Brewster his face was white, but there was a
                        look of determination around the mouth.
                    "Monty, I've got to give up this job," he said, huskily. Brewster
                        looked up quickly.
                    "What do you mean, Nopper?"
                    
                    "I've got to leave, that's all," said Harrison, standing
                        stiff and straight and looking over Brewster's head
                    "Good Lord, Nopper, I can't have that. You must not desert the ship.
                        What's the matter, old chap? You're as white as a ghost. What is it?"
                        Monty was standing now and his hands were on Harrison's shoulders, but before the
                        intensity of his look, his friend's eyes fell helplessly.
                    "The truth is, Monty, I've taken some of your money and I've lost it.
                        That's the reason II can't stay on. I have betrayed your confidence."
                    "Tell me about it," and Monty was perhaps more uncomfortable than his friend.
                        "I don't understand."
                    "You believed too much in me, Monty. You see, I thought I was doing you a favor. You
                        were spending so much and getting nothing in return, and I thought I saw a chance to help you
                        out. It went wrong, that's all, and before I could let go of the stock sixty thousand
                        dollars of your money had gone. I can't replace it yet. But God knows I didn't
                        mean to steal."
                    "It's all right, Nopper. I see that you thought you were helping me. The
                        money's  gone and that ends it. Don't take it so
                        hard, old boy."
                    "I knew you'd act this way, but it doesn't help matters. Some day I
                        may be able to pay back the money I took, and I'm going to work until I do."
                    Brewster protested that he had no use for the money and begged him to retain the position of
                        trust he had held. But Harrison had too much self-respect to care to be confronted daily with
                        the man he had wronged. Gradually Monty realized that "Nopper" was pursuing
                        the most manly course open to him, and gave up the effort to dissuade him. He insisted upon
                        leaving New York, as there was no opportunity to redeem himself in the metropolis.
                    "I've made up my mind, Monty, to go out west, up in the mountains perhaps.
                        There's no telling, I may stumble on a gold mine up thereandwell, that seems to be the
                        only chance I have to restore what I have taken from you."
                    "By Jove, Nopper, I have it!" cried Monty. "If you must go,
                        I'll stake you in the hunt for gold."
                    In the end "Nopper" consented to follow Brewster's advice, and it was
                        agreed that they  should share equally all that resulted from his
                        prospecting tour. Brewster "grub-staked" him for a year, and before the end of
                        the week a new tenderfoot was on his way to the Rocky Mountains.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    THE PRODIGAL AT SEA
                    Harrison's departure left Brewster in sore straits. It forced him to settle down to the
                        actual management of his own affairs. He was not indolent, but this was not the kind of work he
                        cared to encourage. The private accounts he had kept revealed some appalling facts when he went
                        over them carefully one morning at four o'clock, after an all-night session with the
                        ledger. With infinite pains he had managed to rise to something over $450,000 in six months. But
                        to his original million it had been necessary to add $58,550 which he had realized from Lumber
                        and Fuel and some of his other "unfortunate" operations. At least $40,000
                        would come to him ultimately through the sale of furniture and other belongings, and then there
                        would be something like $20,000 interest to consider. But luck had aided him in getting rid of
                        his money. The bank failure had cost him $113,468.25, and "Nopper" Harrison
                        had helped him to the extent of $60,000. The reckless but determined  effort to give a ball had cost $30,000. What he had lost during his illness had
                        been pretty well offset by the unlucky concert tour. The Florida trip, including medical
                        attention, the cottage and living expenses, had entailed the expenditure of $18,500, and his
                        princely dinners and theater parties had footed up $31,000. Taking all the facts into
                        consideration, he felt that he had done rather well as far as he had gone, but the hardest part
                        of the undertaking was yet to come. He was still in possession of an enormous sum which must
                        disappear before September 23d. About $40,000 had already been expended in the yachting project.
                    He determined to begin at once a systematic campaign of extinction. It had been his intention
                        before sailing to dispose of many house-hold articles, either by sale or gift. As he did not
                        expect to return to New York before the latter part of August, this would minimize the struggles
                        of the last month. But the prospective "profit" to be acquired from keeping
                        his apartment open was not to be overlooked. He could easily count upon a generous sum for
                        salaries and running expenses. Once on the other side of the Atlantic, he hoped that new
                        opportunities for extravagance would present  themselves, and he
                        fancied he could leave the final settlement of his affairs for the last month. As the day for
                        sailing approached, the world again seemed bright to this most mercenary of spendthrifts.
                    A farewell consultation with his attorneys proved encouraging, for to them his chances to win the
                        extraordinary contest seemed of the best. He was in high spirits as he left them, exhilarated by
                        the sensation that the world lay before him. In the elevator he encountered Colonel Prentiss
                        Drew. On both sides the meeting was not without its difficulties. The Colonel had been dazed by
                        the inexplicable situation between Monty and his daughter, whose involutions he found hard to
                        understand. Her summary of the effort she had made to effect a reconciliation, after hearing the
                        story of the bank, was rather vague. She had done her utmost, she said, to be nice to him and
                        make him feel that she appreciated his generosity, but he took it in the most disagreeable
                        fashion. Colonel Drew knew that things were somehow wrong; but he was too strongly an American
                        father to interfere in a matter of the affections. It distressed him, for he had a liking for
                        Monty, and Barbara's "society judgments," as he called them, had no
                        weight  with him. When he found himself confronted with Brewster
                        in the elevator, the old warmth revived and the old hope that the quarrel might have an end. His
                        greeting was cheery.
                    "You have not forgotten, Brewster," he said, as they shook hands,
                        "that you have a dollar or two with us?"
                    "No," said Monty, "not exactly. And I shall be calling upon you for
                        some of it very soon. I'm off on Thursday for a cruise in the Mediterranean."
                    "I've heard something of it." They had reached the main floor and
                        Colonel Drew had drawn his companion out of the crowd into the rotunda. "The money is
                        at your disposal at any moment But aren't you setting a pretty lively pace, my boy? You
                        know I've always liked you, and I knew your grandfather rather well. He was a good old
                        chap, Monty, and he would hate to see you make ducks and drakes of his fortune."
                    There was something in the Colonel's manner that softened Brewster, much as he hated to
                        take a reproof from Barbara's father. Once again he was tempted to tell the truth, but
                        he pulled himself up in time. "It's a funny old world, Colonel," he
                        said; "and sometimes one's nearest friend is a stranger. I know I  seem a fool; but, after all, why isn't it good
                        philosophy to make the most of a holiday and then settle back to work?"
                    "That is all very well, Monty," and Colonel Drew was entirely serious;
                        "but the work is a hundred times harder after you have played to the limit.
                        You'll find that you are way beyond it. It's no joke getting back into the
                        harness."
                    "Perhaps you are right, Colonel, but at least I shall have something to look back
                        uponeven if the worst comes." And Monty instinctively straightened his shoulders.
                    They turned to leave the building, and the Colonel had a moment of weakness.
                    "Do you know, Monty," he said, "my daughter is awfully cut up about
                        this business. She is plucky and tries not to show it, but after all a girl doesn't get
                        over that sort of thing all in a moment. I am not saying"it seemed necessary to recede
                        a step"that it would be an easy matter to patch up. But I like you, Monty, and if any
                        man could do it, you can."
                    "Colonel, I wish I might," and Brewster found that he did not hesitate.
                        "For your sake I very much wish the situation were as simple as it seems. But there are
                        some things a man can't forget, andwellBarbara has  shown
                        in a dozen ways that she has no faith in me."
                    "Well, I've got faith in you, and a lot of it. Take care of yourself, and when
                        you get back you can count on me. Good-bye."
                    On Thursday morning the "Flitter" steamed off down the bay, and the flight of
                        the prodigal grandson was on. No swifter, cleaner, hand-somer boat ever sailed out of the harbor
                        of New York, and it was a merry crowd that she carried out to sea. Brewster's guests
                        numbered twenty-five, and they brought with them a liberal supply of maids, valets, and luggage.
                        It was not until many weeks later that he read the vivid descriptions of the weighing of the
                        anchor which were printed in the New York papers, but by that time he was impervious to their
                        ridicule.
                    On deck, watching the rugged silhouette of the city disappear into the mists, were Dan DeMille
                        and Mrs. Dan, Peggy Gray, "Rip" Van Winkle, Reginald Vanderpool, Joe Bragdon,
                        Dr. Lotless and his sister Isabel, Mr. and Mrs. Valentinethe official chaperonand their daughter
                        Mary, "Subway" Smith, Paul Pettingill, and some others hardly less
                        distinguished. As Monty looked over the eager crowd, he recognized with a peculiar glow that  here were represented his best and truest friendships. The
                        loyalty of these companions had been tested, and he knew that they would stand by him through
                        everything.
                    There was no little surprise when it was learned that Dan DeMille was really to sail. Many of the
                        idle voyagers ventured the opinion that he would try to desert the boat in midocean if he saw a
                        chance to get back to his club on a west-bound steamer. But DeMille, big, indolent, and
                        indifferent, smiled carelessly, and hoped he wouldn't bother anybody if he
                        "stuck to the ship" until the end.
                    For a time the sea and the sky and the talk of the crowd were enough for the joy of living. But
                        after a few peaceful days there was a lull, and it was then that Monty gained the nickname of
                        Aladdin, which clung to him. From somewhere, from the hold or the rigging or from under the sea,
                        he brought forth four darkies from the south who strummed guitars and sang ragtime melodies.
                        More than once during the voyage they were useful.
                    "Peggy," said Brewster one day, when the sky was particularly clear and things
                        were quiet on deck, "on the whole I prefer this to crossing the North River on a ferry.
                        I rather like it, don't you?"
                    
                    "It seems like a dream," she cried, her eyes bright, her hair blowing in the
                        wind.
                    "And, Peggy, do you know what I tucked away in a chest down in my cabin? A lot of books
                        that you likesome from the old garret. I've saved them to read on rainy days."
                    Peggy did not speak, but the blood began to creep into her face and she looked wistfully across
                        the water. Then she smiled.
                    "I didn't know you could save anything," she said, weakly.
                    "Come now, Peggy, that is too much."
                    "I didn't mean to hurt you. But you must not forget, Monty, that there are
                        other years to follow this one. Do you know what I mean?"
                    "Peggy, dear, please don't lecture me," he begged, so piteously that
                        she could not be serious.
                    "The class is dismissed for to-day, Monty," she said, airily. "But the
                        professor knows his duty and won't let you off so easily next time."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    ONE HERO AND ANOTHER
                    At Gibraltar, Monty was handed an ominous-looking cablegram which he opened tremblingly.
                    TO MONTGOMERY BREWSTER, Private Yacht
                        Flitter, Gibraltar.
                    There is an agitation to declare for free silver. You may have twice as much to spend. Hooray.
                    JONES.
                    To which Monty responded:
                    Defeat the measure at any cost. The more the merrier, and charge it to me.
                    BREWSTER.
                    P. S. Please send many cables and mark them collect.
                    The Riviera season was fast closing, and the possibilities suggested by Monte Carlo were too
                        alluring to the host to admit of a long stop at Gibraltar. But the DeMilles had letters to one
                        of the officers of the garrison, and Brewster could not overlook the opportunity to give an
                        elaborate dinner. The success of the affair may best be judged by the fact that the
                        "Flitter's" larder required an entirely new stock the next day. The
                        officers and ladies of the garrison  were asked, and Monty would
                        have entertained the entire regiment with beer and sandwiches if his friends had not interfered.
                    "It might cement the Anglo-American alliance," argued Gardner, "but
                        your pocket-book needs cementing a bit more."
                    Yet the pocket-book was very wide open, and Gardner's only consolation lay in a tall
                        English girl whom he took out to dinner. For the others there were many compensations, as the
                        affair was brilliant and the new element a pleasant relief from the inevitable monotony.
                    It was after the guests had gone ashore that Monty discovered Mr. and Mrs. Dan holding a tte--tte
                        in the stern of the boat.
                    "I am sorry to break this up," he interrupted, "but as the only
                        conscientious chaperon in the party, I must warn you that your behavior is already being talked
                        about. The idea of a sedate old married couple sitting out here alone watching the moon!
                        It's shocking."
                    "I yield to the host," said Dan, mockingly. "But I shall be consumed
                        with jealousy until you restore her to me."
                    Monty noticed the look in Mrs. Dan's eyes as she watched her husband go, and marked a
                        new note in her voice as she said, "How this trip is bringing him out."
                    
                    "He has just discovered," Monty observed, "that the club is not the
                        only place in the world."
                    "It's a funny thing," she answered, "that Dan should have
                        been so misunderstood. Do you know that he relentlessly conceals his best side? Down underneath
                        he is the kind of man who could do a fine thing very simply."
                    "My dear Mrs. Dan, you surprise me. It looks to me almost as though you had fallen in
                        love with Dan yourself."
                    "Monty," she said, sharply, "you are as blind as the rest. Have you
                        never seen that before? I have played many games, but I have always come back to Dan. Through
                        them all I have known that he was the only thing possible to methe only thing in the least
                        desirable. It's a queer muddle that one should be tempted to play with fire even when
                        one is monotonously happy. I've been singed once or twice. But Dan is a dear and he has
                        always helped me out of a tight place. He knows. No one understands better than Dan. And perhaps
                        if I were less wickedly human, he would not care for me so much."
                    Monty listened at first in a sort of daze, for he had unthinkingly accepted the general opinion
                        of the DeMille situation. But there were  tear in her eyes for a
                        moment, and the tone of her voice was convincing. It came to him with unpleasant distinctness
                        that he had been all kinds of a fool. Looking back over his inter-course with her, he realized
                        that the situation had been clear enough all the time.
                    "How little we know our friends!" he exclaimed, with some bitterness. And a
                        moment later, "I've liked you a great deal Mrs. Dan, for a long time, but
                        to-nightwell, to-night I am jealous of Dan."
                    The "Flitter" saw some rough weather in making the trip across the Bay of
                        Lyons. She was heading for Nice when an incident occurred that created the first real excitement
                        experienced on the voyage. A group of passengers in the main saloon was discussing, more or less
                        stealthily, Monty's "misdemeanors," when Reggy Vanderpool sauntered
                        lazily in, his face displaying the only sign of interest it had shown in days.
                    "Funny predicament I was just in," he drawled. "I want to ask what a
                        fellow should have done under the circumstances."
                    "I'd have refused the girl," observed "Rip" Van
                        Winkle, laconically.
                    "Girl had nothing to do with it, old chap," went on Reggy, dropping into a
                        chair. "Fellow  fell overboard a little while
                        ago," he went on, calmly. There was a chorus of cries and Brewster was forgotten for a
                        time. "One of the sailors, you know. He was doing something in the rigging near where I
                        was standing. Puff! off he went into the sea, and there he was puttering around in the
                        water."
                    "Oh, the poor fellow," cried Miss Valentine.
                    "I'd never set eyes on him beforeperfect stranger. I wouldn't have
                        hesitated a minute, but the deck was crowded with a lot of his friends. One chap was his bunkie.
                        So, really now, it wasn't my place to jump in after him. He could swim a bit, and I
                        yelled to him to hold up and I'd tell the captain. Confounded captain wasn't
                        to be found though. Somebody said he was asleep. In the end I told the mate. By this time we
                        were a mile away from the place where he went overboard, and I told the mate I didn't
                        think we could find him if we went back. But he lowered some boats and they put back fast.
                        Afterwards I got to thinking about the matter. Of course if I had known himif he had been one of
                        youit would have been different."
                    "And you were the best swimmer in college, you miserable rat," exploded Dr.
                        Lotless.
                    There was a wild rush for the upper deck,  and Vanderpool was not
                        the hero of the hour. The "Flitter" had turned and was steaming back over her
                        course. Two small boats were racing to the place where Reggy's unknown had gone over.
                    "Where is Brewster?" shouted Joe Bragdon.
                    "I can't find him, sir," answered the first mate.
                    "He ought to know of this," cried Mr. Valentine.
                    "There! By the eternal, they are picking somebody up over yonder," exclaimed
                        the mate. "See! that first boat has laid to and they are draggingyes, sir,
                        he's saved!"
                    A cheer went up on board and the men in the small boats waved their caps in response. Everybody
                        rushed to the rail as the "Flitter" drew up to the boats, and there was
                        intense excitement on board. A gasp of amazement went up from every one.
                    Monty Brewster, drenched but smiling, sat in one of the boats, and leaning limply against him,
                        his head on his chest, was the sailor who had fallen overboard. Brewster had seen the man in the
                        water and, instead of wondering what his antecedents were, leaped to his assistance. When the
                        boat reached him his unconscious burden was a dead weight and his own  strength was almost gone. Another minute or two and both would have gone to the
                        bottom.
                    As they hauled Monty over the side he shivered for an instant, grasped the first little hand that
                        sought his so frantically, and then turned to look upon the half-dead sailor.
                    "Find out that boy's name, Mr. Abertz, and see that he has the best of care.
                        Just before he fainted out there he murmured something about his mother. He wasn't
                        thinking of him-self even then, you see. And Bragdon"this in a lower
                        voice"will you see that his wages are properly increased? Hello, Peggy! Look out,
                        you'll get wet to the skin if you do that."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    LE ROI S'AMUSE
                    If Montgomery Brewster had had any misgivings about his ability to dispose of the balance of his
                        fortune they were dispelled very soon after his party landed in the Riviera. On the pretext that
                        the yacht required a thorough "house cleaning" Brewster transferred his guests
                        to the hotel of a fascinating village which was near the sea and yet quite out of the world. The
                        place was nearly empty at the time and the proprietor wept tears of joy when Monty engaged for
                        his party the entire first floor of the house with balconies overlooking the blue Mediterranean
                        and a separate dining-room and salon. Extra servants were summoned, and the Brewster livery was
                        soon a familiar sight about the village. The protests of Peggy and the others were only silenced
                        when Monty threatened to rent a villa and go to housekeeping.
                    The town quickly took on the appearance of entertaining a royal visitor, and a number of shops
                        were kept open longer than usual in the  hope that their owners
                        might catch some of the American's money. One morning Philippe, the hotel proprietor,
                        was trying to impress Brewster with a gesticulatory description of the glories of the Bataille
                        de Fleurs. It seemed quite impossible to express the extent of his regret that the party had not
                        arrived in time to see it.
                    "This is quite another place at that time," he said ecstatically.
                        "C'est magnifique! c'est superbe! If monsieur had only seen
                        it!"
                    "Why not have another all to ourselves?" asked Monty. But the suggestion was
                        not taken seriously.
                    Nevertheless the young American and his host were in secret session for the rest of the morning,
                        and when the result was announced at luncheon there was general consternation. It appeared that
                        ten days later occurred the fte day of some minor saint who had not for years been accorded the
                        honor of a celebration. Monty proposed to revive the custom by arranging a second carnival.
                    "You might just as well not come to the Riviera at all," he explained,
                        "if you can't see a carnival. It's a simple matter, really. I offer
                        one prize for the best decorated carriage and another to the handsomest lady. Then  everyone puts on a domino and a mask, throws confetti at everyone
                        else, and there you are."
                    "I suppose you will have the confetti made of thousand franc notes, and offer a house
                        and lot as a prize." And Bragdon feared that his sarcasm was almost insulting.
                    "Really, Monty, the scheme is ridiculous," said DeMille, "the police
                        won't allow it."
                    "Won't they though!" said Monty, exultantly. "The chief
                        happens to be Philippe's brother-in-law, and we had him on the telephone. He
                        wouldn't listen to the scheme until we agreed to make him grand marshal of the parade.
                        Then he promised the coperation of the entire force and hoped to interest his colleague, the
                        chief of the fire department."
                    "The parade will consist of two gendarmes and the Brewster party in carriages,"
                        laughed Mrs. Dan. "Do you expect us to go before or after the bakery carts?"
                    "We review the procession from the hotel," said Monty. "You
                        needn't worry about the fte. It's going to be great. Why, an Irishman
                        isn't fonder of marching than these people are of having a carnival."
                    The men in the party went into executive session as soon as Monty had gone to interview the local
                        authorities, and seriously considered  taking measures to subdue
                        their host's eccentricities. But the humor of the scheme appealed to them too forcibly,
                        and almost before they knew it they were making plans for the carnival.
                    "Of course we can't let him do it, but it would be sport," said
                        "Subway" Smith. "Think of a cake-walk between gendarmes and
                        blanchiseuses."
                    "I always feel devilish the moment I get a mask on," said Vanderpool,
                        "and you know, by Jove, I haven't felt that way for years."
                    "That settles it, then," said DeMille. "Monty would call it off
                        himself if he knew how it would affect Reggie."
                    Monty returned with the announcement that the mayor of the town would declare a holiday if the
                        American could see his way to pay for the repairs on the mairie roof. A circus, which was
                        traveling in the neighborhood, was guaranteed expenses if it would stop over and occupy the
                        square in front of the Htel de Ville. Brewster's enthusiasm was such that no one could
                        resist helping him, and for nearly a week his friends were occupied in superintending the
                        erection of triumphal arches and encouraging the shopkeepers to do their best. Although the
                        scheme had been conceived in  the spirit of a lark it was not so
                        received by the townspeople. They were quite serious in the matter. The railroad officials sent
                        advertisements broadcast, and the local cur called to thank Brewster for resurrecting, as it
                        were, the obscure saint. The expression of his gratitude was so mingled with flattery and appeal
                        that Monty could not overlook the hint that a new altar piece had long been needed.
                    The great day finally arrived, and no carnival could have been more bizarre or more successful.
                        The morning was devoted to athletics and the side shows. The pompiers won the tug of war, and
                        the people marveled when Monty duplicated the feats of the strong man in the circus. DeMille was
                        called upon for a speech, but knowing only ten words of French, he graciously retired in favor
                        of the mayor, and that pompous little man made the most of a rare opportunity. References to
                        Franklin and Lafayette were so frequent that "Subway" Smith intimated that a
                        rubber stamp must have been used in writing the address.
                    The parade took place in the afternoon, and proved quite the feature of the day. The question of
                        precedence nearly overturned Monty's plans, but the chief of police was finally made to
                        see that if he were to be chief marshal it  was only fair that the
                        pompiers should march ahead of the gendarmes. The crew of the "Flitter" made a
                        wonderful showing. It was led by the yacht's band, which fairly outdid Sousa in noise,
                        though it was less unanimous in the matter of time. All the fiacres came at the end, but there
                        were so many of them and the line of march was so short that at times they were really leading
                        the procession despite the gallant efforts of the grand marshal.
                    From the balcony of the hotel Monty and his party pelted those below with flowers and confetti.
                        More allusions to Franklin and Lafayette were made when the cur and the mayor halted the
                        procession and presented Monty with an address richly engrossed on imitation parchment. Then the
                        school children sang and the crowd dispersed to meet again in the evening.
                    At eight o'clock Brewster presided over a large banquet, and numbered among his guests
                        everyone of distinction in the town. The wives were also invited and Franklin and Lafayette were
                        again alluded to. Each of the men made at least one speech, but "Subway"
                        Smith's third address was the hit of the evening. Knowing nothing but English he had
                        previously clung consistently to that language,  but the third and
                        final address seemed to demand something more friendly and genial. With a sweeping bow and with
                        all the dignity of a statesman he began:
                    "Mesdames et Messieurs: J'ai, tu as, il a, nous avons,"with a
                        magnificent gesture, "vous avez." The French members of the company were not
                        equal to his pronunciation and were under the impression that he was still talking English. They
                        were profoundly impressed with his deference and grace and accorded his preamble a round of
                        applause. The Americans did their utmost to persuade him to be seated, but their uproar was
                        mistaken by the others for enthusiasm, and the applause grew louder than ever.
                        "Subway" held up his hand for silence, and his manner suggested that he was
                        about to utter some peculiarly important thought. He waited until a pin fall could have been
                        heard before he went on.
                    "Matre corbeau sur un arbre perch" he finished the speech as he was being
                        carried bodily from the room by DeMille and Bragdon. The Frenchmen then imagined that
                        Smith's remarks had been insulting, and his friends had silenced him on that account. A
                        riot seemed imminent when Monty succeeded  in restoring silence,
                        and with a few tactful remarks about Franklin and Lafayette quieted the excited guests.
                    The evening ended with fireworks and a dance in the open air,a dance that grew gay under the
                        masks. The wheels had been well oiled and there was no visible failure of the carnival spirit.
                        To Brewster it seemed a mad game, and he found it less easy to play a part behind the foolish
                        mask than he expected. His own friends seemed to elude him, and the coquetries of the village
                        damsels had merely a fleeting charm. He was standing apart to watch the glimmering crowd when he
                        was startled by a smothered cry. Turning to investigate, he discovered a little red domino,
                        unmistakably frightened, and trying to release herself from a too ardent Punchinello.
                        Monty's arrival prevented him from tearing off the girl's mask and gave him an
                        entirely new conception of the strenuous life. He arose fuming and sputtering, but he was taken
                        in hand by the crowd and whirled from one to another in whimsical mockery. Meanwhile Monty,
                        unconscious that his mask had dropped during the encounter, was astonished to feel the little
                        hand of the red domino on his arm and to hear a voice not all unfamiliar in his ear.
                    
                    "Monty, you are a dear. I love you for that. You looked like a Greek athlete. Do you
                        know it was foolishbut I really was frightened." "Child, how could it have
                        happened?" he whispered, leading her away. "Fancy my little Peggy with no one
                        to look after her. What a beast I was to trust you to Pettingill. I might have known the chump
                        would have been knocked out by all this color." He stopped to look down at her and a
                        light came into his eyes. "Little Peggy in the great world," he smiled;
                        "you are not fit. You needwell, you needjust me."
                    But Mrs. Valentine had seen him as he stood revealed, and came up in search of Peggy. It was
                        almost morning, she told her, and quite time to go back to the hotel and sleep. So in
                        Bragdon's charge they wandered off, a bit reluctantly, a bit lingeringly.
                    It was not until Monty was summoned to rescue "Reggie" Vanderpool from the
                        stern arm of the law that he dicovered the identity of Punchinello. Manifestly he had not been
                        in a condition to recognize his assailant, and a subsequent disagreement had driven the first
                        out of his head. The poor boy was sadly bruised about the face and his arrest had probably saved
                        him from worse punishment.
                    
                    "I told you I couldn't wear a mask," he explained ruefully as Monty
                        led him home. "But how could I know that he could hear me all the time?"
                    The day after the carnival Brewster drove his guests over to Monte Carlo. He meant to stay only
                        long enough to try his luck at the tables and lose enough to make up for the days at sea when
                        his purse was necessarily idle. Swearengen Jones was forgotten, and soon after his arrival he
                        began to plunge. At first he lost heavily, and it was with difficulty that he concealed his joy.
                        Peggy Gray was watching him, and in whispers implored him to stop, but Mrs. Dan excitedly urged
                        him to continue until the luck changed. To the girl's chagrin it was the more reckless
                        advice that he followed. In so desperate a situation he felt that he could not stop. But his
                        luck turned too soon.
                    "I can't afford to give up," he said, miserably, to himself, after a
                        time. "I'm already a winner by five thousand dollars, and I must at least get
                        rid of that."
                    Brewster became the center of interest to those who were not playing and people marveled at his
                        luck. They quite misinterpreted his eagerness and the flushed anxious look with  which he followed each spin of the wheel. He had chosen a seat
                        beside an English duchess whose practice it was to appropriate the winnings of the more
                        inexperienced players, and he was aware that many of his gold pieces were being deliberately
                        stolen. Here he thought was at least a helping hand, and he was on the point of moving his stack
                        toward her side when DeMille interfered. He had watched the duchess, and had called the
                        croupier's attention to her neat little method. But that austere individual silenced
                        him by saying in surprise, "Mais c'est madame la duchesse, que
                        voulez-vous?"
                    Not to be downed so easily, DeMille watched the play from behind Monty's chair and
                        cautioned his friend at the first opportunity.
                    "Better cash in and change your seat, Monty. They're robbing you," he
                        whispered.
                    "Cash in when I'm away ahead of the game? Never!" and Monty did his
                        best to assume a joyful tone.
                    At first he played with no effort at system, piling his money flat on the numbers which seemed to
                        have least chance of winning, but he simply could not lose. Then he tried to reverse different
                        systems he had heard of, but  they turned out to be winners.
                        Finally in desperation he began doubling on one color in the hope that he would surely lose in
                        the end, but his particular fate was against him. With his entire stake on the red the ball
                        continued to fall in the red holes until the croupier announced that the bank was broken.
                    Dan DeMille gathered in the money and counted forty thousand dollars before he handed it to
                        Monty. His friends were over-joyed when he left the table, and wondered why he looked so
                        downhearted. Inwardly he berated himself for not taking Peggy's advice.
                    "I'm so glad for your sake that you did not stop when I asked you, Monty, but
                        your luck does not change my belief that gambling is next to stealing," Peggy was
                        constrained to say as they went to supper.
                    "I wish I had taken your advice," he said gloomily.
                    "And missed the fortune you have won? How foolish of you, Monty! You were a loser by
                        several thousand dollars then," she objected with whimsical inconsistency.
                    "But, Peggy," he said quietly, looking deep into her eyes, "it would
                        have won me your respect."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    FAIRYLAND
                    Monty's situation was desperate. Only a little more than six thousand dollars had been
                        spent on the carnival and no opportunity of annihilating the roulette winnings seemed to offer
                        itself. His experience at Monte Carlo did not encourage him to try again, and Peggy's
                        attitude toward the place was distinctly antagonistic. The Riviera presenting no new
                        opportunities for extravagance, it became necessary to seek other worlds.
                    "I never before understood the real meaning of the phrase 'tight
                        money,'" thought Monty. "Lord, if it would only loosen a bit and stay
                        loosened." Something must be done, he realized, to earn his living. Perhaps the rle of
                        the princely profligate would be easier in Italy than anywhere else. He studied the outlook from
                        every point of view, but there were moments when it seemed hopeless. Baedeker was provokingly
                        barren of suggestions for extravagance and Monty grew impatient of the book's small
                        economies. Noticing some chapters on the Italian lakes, in  an
                        inspired moment he remembered that Pettingill had once lost his heart to a villa on the Lake of
                        Como. Instantly a new act of the comedy presented itself to him. He sought out Pettingill and
                        demanded a description of his castle in the air.
                    "Oh, it's a wonder," exclaimed the artist, and his eyes grew dreamy.
                        "It shines out at you with its white terraces and turrets like those fascinating
                        castles that Maxfield Parrish draws for children. It is fairyland. You expect to wake and find
                        it gone."
                    "Oh, drop that, Petty," said Brewster, "or it will make you poetical.
                        What I want to know is who owns it and is it likely to be occupied at this season?"
                    "It belongs to a certain marquise, who is a widow with no children. They say she has a
                        horror of the place for some reason and has never been near it. It is kept as though she were to
                        turn up the next day, but except for the servants it is always deserted."
                    "The very thing," declared Brewster; "Petty, we'll have a
                        house-party."
                    "You'd better not count on that, Monty. A man I know ran across the place once
                        and tried for a year to buy it. But the lady has ideas of her own."
                    
                    "Well, if you wish to give him a hint or two about how to do things, watch me. If you
                        don't spend two weeks in your dream-castle, I will cut the crowd and sail for
                        home." He secured the name of the owner, and found that Pettingill had even a remote
                        idea of the address of her agent. Armed with these facts he set out in search of a courier, and
                        through Philippe he secured a Frenchman named Bertier, who was guaranteed to be surprisingly
                        ingenious in providing methods of spending money. To him Brewster confided his scheme, and
                        Bertier realized with rising enthusiasm that at last he had secured a client after his own
                        heart. He was able to complete the address of the agent of the mysterious marquise, and an
                        inquiry was immediately telegraphed to him.
                    The agent's reply would have been discouraging to anyone but Brewster. It stated that
                        the owner had no intention of leasing her forsaken castle for any period whatever. The
                        profligate learned that a fair price for an estate of that kind for a month was ten thousand
                        francs, and he wired an offer of five times that sum for two weeks. The agent replied that some
                        delay would be necessary while he communicated with his principal.  Delay was the one word that Brewster did not understand, so he wired him an address in Genoa,
                        and the "Flitter" was made ready for sea. Steam had been kept up, and her coal
                        account would compare favorably with that of an ocean liner. Philippe was breathless with joy
                        when he was paid in advance for another month at the hotel, on the assumption that the party
                        might be moved to return at any moment. The little town was gay at parting and Brewster and his
                        guests were given a royal farewell.
                    At Genoa the mail had accumulated and held the attention of the yacht to the exclusion of
                        everything else. Brewster was somewhat crestfallen to learn that the lady of the villa haughtily
                        refused his princely offer. He won the life-long devotion of his courier by promptly increasing
                        it to one hundred thousand francs. When this too met with rejection, there was a pause and a
                        serious consultation between the two.
                    "Bertier," exclaimed Brewster, "I must have the thing now.
                        What's to be done? You've got to help me out."
                    But the courier, prodigal as he was of gestures, had no words which seemed pertinent.
                    "There must be some way of getting at this" 
                        marquise," Monty continued reflectively.
                    "What are her tastes? Do you know any thing about her?"
                    Suddenly the face of the courier grew bright. "I have it," he said, and then he
                        faltered. "But the expense, monsieurit would be heavy."
                    "Perhaps we can meet it," suggested Monty, quietly. "What's
                        the idea?"
                    It was explained, with plenty of action to make it clear. The courier had heard in Florence that
                        madame la marquise had a passion for automobiles. But with her inadequate fortune and the many
                        demands upon it, it was a weakness not readily gratified. The machine she had used during the
                        winter was by no means up-to-date. Possibly if monsieuryet it was too muchno villa
                    But Brewster's decision was made. "Wire the fellow," he said,
                        "that I will add to my last offer a French machine of the latest model and the best
                        make. Say, too, that I would like immediate possession."
                    He secured it, and the crowd was transferred at once to fairyland. There were protests, of
                        course, but these Brewster had grown to expect and he was learning to carry things with a high
                        hand. The travelers had been preceded  by Bertier, and the
                        greeting they received from the steward of the estate and his innumerable assistants was very
                        Italian and full of color. A break in their monotony was welcome.
                    The loveliness of the villa and its grounds, which sloped down to the gentle lake, silenced
                        criticism. For a time it was supremely satisfying to do nothing. Pettingill wandered about as
                        though he could not believe it was real. He was lost in a kind of atmosphere of ecstasy. To the
                        others, who took it more calmly, it was still a sort of paradise. Those who were happy found in
                        it an intensification of happiness, and to those who were sad it offered the tenderest
                        opportunities for melancholy. Mrs. Dan told Brewster that only a poet could have had this
                        inspiration. And Peggy added, "Anything after this would be an anti-climax. Really,
                        Monty, you would better take us home."
                    "I feel like the boy who was shut in a closet for punishment and found it the place
                        where they kept the jam," said "Subway." "It is almost as
                        good as owning Central Park."
                    The stables were well equipped and the days wore on in a wonderful peace. It was on a radiant
                        afternoon, when twelve of the crowd had started out, after tea, for a long ride toward  Lugano, that Monty determined to call Peggy Gray to account. He
                        was certain that she had deliberately avoided him for days and weeks, and he could find no
                        reason for it. Hour after hour he had lain awake wondering where he had failed her, but the
                        conclusion of one moment was rejected the next. The Monte Carlo episode seemed the most
                        plausible cause, yet even before that he had noticed that whenever he approached her she managed
                        to be talking with some one else. Two or three times he was sure she had seen his intention
                        before she took refuge with Mrs. Dan or Mary Valentine or Pettingill. The thought of the last
                        name gave Monty a sudden thrill. What if it were he who had come between them? It troubled him,
                        but there were moments when the idea seemed impossible. As they mounted and started off, the
                        exhilaration of the ride made him hopeful. They were to have dinner in the open air in the
                        shadow of an abbey ruin some miles away, and the servants had been sent ahead to prepare it. It
                        went well, and with Mrs. Dan's help the dinner was made gay. On the return Monty who
                        was off last spurred up his horse to join Peggy. She seemed eager to be with the rest and he
                        lost no time with a preamble.
                    
                    "Do you know, Peggy," he began, "something seems to be wrong, and I am
                        wondering what it is."
                    "Why, what do you mean, Monty?" as he paused.
                    "Every time I come near you, child, you seem to have something else to do. If I join the
                        group you are in, it is the signal for you to break away."
                    "Nonsense, Monty, why should I avoid you? We have known one another much too long for
                        that." But he thought he detected some contradiction in her eyes, and he was right. The
                        girl was afraid of him, afraid of the sensations he awoke, afraid desperately of betrayal.
                    "Pettingill may appeal to you," he said, and his voice was serious,
                        "but you might at least be courteous to me."
                    "How absurd you are, Monty Brewster." The girl grew hot. "You
                        needn't think that your million gives you the privilege of dictating to all of your
                        guests."
                    "Peggy, how can you," he interjected.
                    She went on ruthlessly.- "If my conduct interferes with your highness's
                        pleasure I can easily join the Prestons in Paris."
                    Suddenly Brewster remembered that Pettingill had spoken of the Prestons and expressed  a fleeting wish that he might be with them in the Latin Quarter.
                        "With Pettingill to follow, I suppose," he said icily. "It would
                        certainly give you more privacy."
                    "And Mrs. Dan more opportunities," she retorted as he dropped back toward the
                        others.
                    The artist instantly took his place. The next moment he had challenged her to a race and they
                        were flying down the road in the moonlight. Brewster, not to be outdone, was after them, but it
                        was only a moment before his horse shied violently at something black in the road. Then he saw
                        Peggy's horse galloping riderless. Instantly, with fear at his throat, he had
                        dismounted and was at the girl's side. She was not hurt, they found, only bruised and
                        dazed and somewhat lamed. A girth had broken and her saddle turned. The crowd waited, silent and
                        somewhat awed, until the carriage with the servants came up and she was put into it. Mrs.
                        Dan's maid was there and Peggy insisted that she would have no one else. But as Monty
                        helped her in, he had whispered, "You won't go, child, will you? How could
                        things go on here?"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    PRINCE AND PEASANTS
                    The peacefulness of fairyland was something which Brewster could not afford to continue, and with
                        Bertier he was soon planning to invade it. The automobile which he was obliged to order for the
                        mysterious marquise put other ideas into his head. It seemed at once absolutely necessary to
                        give a coaching party in Italy, and as coaches of the right kind were hard to find there, and
                        changes of horses most uncertain, nothing could be more simple and natural than to import
                        automobiles from Paris. Looking into the matter, he found that they would have to be purchased
                        outright, as the renting of five machines would put his credit to too severe a test. Accordingly
                        Bertier telegraphed a wholesale order, which taxed the resources of the manufacturers and caused
                        much complaint from some customers whose work was unaccountably delayed. The arrangement made by
                        the courier was that they were to be taken back at a greatly reduced price at the end of six
                        weeks. The machines  were shipped at once, five to Milan, and one
                        to the address of the mysterious marquise in Florence.
                    It was with a sharp regret that Monty broke into the idyl of the villa, for the witchery of the
                        place had got into his blood. But a stern sense of duty, combined with the fact that the Paris
                        chauffeurs and machines were due in Milan on Monday, made him ruthless. He was astonished that
                        his orders to decamp were so meekly obeyed, forgetting that his solicitous guests did not know
                        that worse extravagance lay beyond. He took them to Milan by train and lodged them with some
                        splendor at the Htel Cavour. Here he found that the fame of the princely profligate had preceded
                        him, and his portly host was all deference and attention. All regret, too, for monsieur was just
                        too late to hear the wonderful company of artists who had been singing at La Scala. The season
                        was but just ended. Here was an opportunity missed indeed, and Brewster's vexation
                        brought out an ironical comment to Bertier. It rankled, but it had its effect. The courier
                        proved equal to the emergency. Discovering that the manager of the company and the principal
                        artists were still in Milan, he suggested to Brewster that a special perform  ance would be very difficult to secure but might still be
                        possible. His chief caught at the idea and authorized him to make every arrangement, reserving
                        the entire house for his own party.
                    "But the place will look bare," protested the courier, aghast.
                    "Fill it with flowers, cover it with tapestries," commanded Brewster.
                        "I put the affair in your hands, and I trust you to carry it through in the right way.
                        Show them how it ought to be done."
                    Bertier's heart swelled within him at the thought of so glorious an opportunity. His
                        fame, he felt, was already established in Italy. It became a matter of pride to do the thing
                        handsomely, and the necessary business arrangements called out all his unused resources of
                        delicacy and diplomacy. When it came to the decoration of the opera house, he called upon
                        Pettingill for assistance, and together they superintended an arrangement which curtained off a
                        large part of the place and reduced it to livable proportions. With the flowers and the lights,
                        the tapestries and the great faded flags, it became something quite different from the usual
                        empty theater.
                    To the consternation of the Italians, the work had been rushed, and it was on the evening  after their arrival in Milan that Brewster conducted his friends
                        in state to the Scala. It was almost a triumphal progress, for he had generously if unwittingly
                        given the town the most princely sensation in years, and curiosity was abundant. Mrs. Valentine,
                        who was in the carriage with Monty, wondered openly why they were attracting so much attention.
                    "They take us for American dukes and princesses," explained Monty.
                        "They never saw a white man before."
                    "Perhaps they expected us to ride on buffaloes," said Mrs. Dan, "with
                        Indian captives in our train."
                    "No," "Subway" Smith protested, "I seem to see
                        disappointment in their faces. They are looking for crowns and scepters and a shower of gold
                        coin. Really, Monty, you don't play the game as you should. Why, I could give you
                        points on the potentate act myself. A milk-white steed, a few clattering attendants in gorgeous
                        uniforms, a lofty nod here and there, and little me distributing silver in the rear."
                    "I wonder," exclaimed Mrs. Dan, "if they don't get tired now
                        and then of being potentates. Can't you fancy living in palaces and longing for a
                        thatched cottage?"
                    
                    "Easily," answered "Subway," with a laugh.
                    "Haven't we tried it ourselves? Two months of living upon nothing but fatted
                        calves is more than I can stand. We shall be ready for a home for dyspeptics if you
                        can't slow down a bit, Monty."
                    Whereupon Mrs. Dan evolved a plan, and promptly began to carry it out by inviting the crowd to
                        dinner the next night. Monty protested that they would be leaving Milan in the afternoon, and
                        that this was distinctly his affair and he was selfish.
                    But Mrs. Dan was very sure. "My dear boy, you can't have things your own way
                        every minute. In another month you will be quite spoiled. Anything to prevent that. My duty is
                        plain. Even if I have to use heroic measures, you dine with me to-morrow."
                    Monty recognized defeat when he met it, and graciously accepted her very kind invitation. The
                        next moment they drew up at the opera house and were ushered in with a deference only accorded
                        to wealth. The splendor of the effect was overpowering to Brewster as well as to his bewildered
                        guests. Aladdin, it seemed, had fairly outdone himself. The wonder of it was so complete that it
                        was some time before they could settle down to the opera, which 
                        was Aida, given with an enthusiasm that only Italians can compass.
                    During the last intermission Brewster and Peggy were walking in the foyer. They had rarely spoken
                        since the day of the ride but Monty noticed with happiness that she had on several occasions
                        avoided Pettingill.
                    "I thought we had given up fairyland when we left the lakes, but I believe you carry it
                        with you," she said.
                    "The trouble with this," Monty replied, "is that there are too many
                        people about. My fairyland is to be just a little different."
                    "Your fairyland, Monty, will be built of gold and paved with silver You will sit all day
                        cutting coupons in an office of alabaster."
                    "Peggy, do you too think me vulgar? It's a beastly parade, I know, but it
                        can't stop now. You don't realize the momentum of the thing."
                    "You do it up to the handle," she put in.
                    "And you are much too generous to be vulgar. But it worries me, Monty, it worries me
                        desperately. It's the future I'm thinking ofyour future, which is being
                        swallowed up. This kind of thing can't go on. And what is to follow it? You are wasting
                        your substance, and you are not making any life for yourself that opens out."
                    
                    "Peggy," he answered very seriously, "you have got to trust me. I
                        can't back out, but I'll tell you this. You shall not be disappointed in me in
                        the end."
                    There was a mist before the girl's eyes as she looked at him. "I believe you,
                        Monty," she said simply; "I shall not forget."
                    The curtain rose upon the next act, and something in the opera toward the end seemed to bring the
                        two very close together. As they were leaving the theater, there was a note of regret from
                        Peggy. "It has been perfect," she breathed, "yet, Monty,
                        isn't it a waste that no one else should have seen it? Think of these poverty-stricken
                        peasants who adore music and have never heard an opera."
                    "Well, they shall hear one now." Monty rose to it, but he felt like a hypocrite
                        in concealing his chief motive. "We'll repeat the performance to-morrow night
                        and fill the house with them."
                    He was as good as his word. Bertier was given a task the next day which was not to his taste. But
                        with the assistance of the city authorities he carried it through. To them it was an evidence of
                        insanity, but there was something princely about it and they were tolerant. The manager of the
                        opera house  was less complacent, and he had an exclamatory terror
                        of the damage to his upholstery. But Brewster had discovered that in Italy gold is a panacea for
                        all ills, and his prescriptions were liberal. To him the day was short, for Peggy's
                        interest in the penance, as it came to be called, was so keen that she insisted on having a hand
                        in the preliminaries. There was something about the partnership that appealed to Monty.
                    To her regret the DeMille dinner interfered with the opening of the performance, but Monty
                        consoled her with the promise that the opera and its democratic audience should follow. During
                        the day Mrs. Dan had been deep in preparations for her banquet, but her plans were elaborately
                        concealed. They culminated at eight o'clock in the Cova not far from the Scala, and the
                        dinner was eaten in the garden to the sound of music. Yet it was an effect of simplicity with
                        which Mrs. Dan surprised her guests. They were prepared for anything but that, and when they
                        were served with consomm, spaghettia concession to the chefand chops and peas, followed by a
                        salad and coffee, the gratitude of the crowd was quite beyond expression. In a burst of
                        enthusiasm "Subway" Smith suggested a testimonial.
                    
                    Monty complained bitterly that he himself had never received a ghost of a testimonial. He
                        protested that it was not deserved.
                    "Why should you expect it?" exclaimed Pettingill, "when have you risen
                        from terrapin and artichokes to chops and chicory? When have you given us nectar and ambrosia
                        like this?"
                    Monty was defeated by a unanimous vote and Mrs. Dan's testimonial was assured. This
                        matter settled, Peggy and Mrs. Valentine, with Brewster and Pettingill, walked over to the Scala
                        and heard again the last two acts of Aida. But the audience was different, and the applause.
                    The next day at noon the chauffeurs from Paris reported for duty, and five gleaming French
                        devil-wagons steamed off through the crowd in the direction of Venice. Through Brescia and
                        Verona and Vicenza they passed, scattering largess of silver in their wake and leaving a trail
                        of breathless wonder. Brewster found the pace too fast and by the time they reached Venice he
                        had a wistful longing to take this radiant country more slowly. "But this is purely a
                        business trip," he thought, "and I can't expect to enjoy it. Some day
                        I'll come back and do it differently. I could  spend
                        hours in a gondola if the blamed things were not more expensive by the trip."
                    It was there that he was suddenly recalled to his duty from dreams of moonlight on the water, by
                        a cablegram which demanded $324.00 before it could be read. It contained word for word the
                        parable of the ten talents and ended with the simple word "Jones."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    AN OFFER OF MARRIAGE
                    The summer is scarcely a good time to visit Egypt, but Monty and his guests had a desire to see
                        even a little of the northern coast of Africa. It was decided, therefore, that after Athens, the
                        "Flitter," should go south. The yacht had met them at Naples after the
                        automobile processiona kind of triumphal progress,was disbanded in Florence, and they had taken
                        a hurried survey of Rome. By the middle of July the party was leaving the heat of Egypt and
                        finding it not half bad. New York was not more than a month away as Brewster reckoned time and
                        distance, and there was still too much money in the treasury. As September drew nearer he got
                        into the habit of frequently forgetting Swearengen Jones until it was too late to retrace his
                        steps. He was coming to the "death struggle," as he termed it, and there was
                        something rather terrorizing in the fear that "the million might die hard."
                        And so these last days and nights were glorious ones,  if one
                        could have looked at them with unbiased, untroubled eyes. But every member of his party was
                        praying for the day when the "Flitter" would be well into the broad Atlantic
                        and the worst over. At Alexandria Brewster had letters to some Englishmen, and in the few
                        entertainments that he gave succeeded once again, in fairly outdoing Aladdin.
                    A sheik from the interior was a guest at one of Monty's entertainments. He was a burly,
                        hot-blooded fellow, with a densely-populated harem, and he had been invited more as a curiosity
                        than as one to be honored. As he came aboard the "Flitter," Monty believed the
                        invitation was more than justified. Mohammed was superb, and the women of the party made so much
                        of him that it was small wonder that his head was turned. He fell desperately in love with Peggy
                        Gray on sight, and with all the composure of a potentate who has never been crossed he sent for
                        Brewster the next day and told him to "send her around" and he would marry
                        her. Monty's blood boiled furiously for a minute or two, but he was quick to see the
                        wisdom of treating the proposition diplomatically. He tried to make it plain to the sheik that
                        Miss Gray could not accept the honor he wished to confer upon 
                        her, but it was not Mohammed's custom to be denied anything he asked forespecially
                        anything feminine. He complacently announced that he would come aboard that afternoon and talk
                        it over with Peggy.
                    Brewster looked the swarthy gentleman over with unconcealed disgust in his eyes. The mere thought
                        of this ugly brute so much as touching the hand of little Peggy Gray filled him with horror, and
                        yet there was something laughable in the situation. He could not hide the smile that came with
                        the mind picture of Peggy listening to the avowal of the sheik. The Arab misinterpreted this
                        exhibition of mirth. To him the grin indicated friendship and encouragement. He wanted to give
                        Brewster a ring as a pledge of affection, but the American declined the offering and also
                        refused to carry a bag of jewels to Peggy.
                    "I'll let the old boy come aboard just to see Peggy look a hole through
                        him," he resolved. "No matter how obnoxious it may be, it isn't every
                        girl who can say an oriental potentate has asked her to marry him. If this camelherder gets
                        disagreeable we may tumble him into the sea for a change."
                    With the best grace possible he invited the sheik to come aboard and consult Miss Gray  in person. Mohammed was a good bit puzzled over the intimation
                        that it would be necessary for him to plead for anything he had expressed a desire to possess.
                        Brewster confided the news to "Rip" Van Winkle and "Subway"
                        Smith, who had gone ashore with him, and the trio agreed that it would be good sport to let the
                        royal proposal come as a surprise to Peggy. Van Winkle returned to the yacht at once, but his
                        companions stayed ashore to do some shopping. When they approached the
                        "Flitter" later on they observed an unusual commotion on deck.
                    Mohammed had not tarried long after their departure. He gathered his train together, selected a
                        few costly presents that had been returned from the harem and advanced on the boat without
                        delay. The captain of the "Flitter" stared long and hard at the gaily bedecked
                        launches and then called to his first officer. Together they watched the ceremonious approach. A
                        couple of brown-faced heralds came aboard first and announced the approach of the mighty chief.
                        Captain Perry went forward to greet the sheik as he came over the side of the ship, but he was
                        brushed aside by the advance guards. Half a hundred swarthy fellows crowded aboard and then came
                             the sheik, the personification of pomp and pride.
                    "Where is she?" he asked in his native tongue. The passengers were by this time
                        aware of the visitation, and began to straggle on deck, filled with curiosity.
                    "What the devil do you mean by coming aboard in this manner?" demanded the now
                        irate Captain Perry, shoving a couple of retainers out of his path and facing the beaming
                        suitor. An interpreter took a hand at this juncture and the doughty captain finally was made to
                        understand the object of the visit. He laughed in the sheik's face and told the mate to
                        call up a few jackies to drive the "dagoes" off. "Rip" Van
                        Winkle interfered and peace was restored. The cruise had changed "Rip" into a
                        happier and far more radiant creature, so it was only natural that he should have shared the
                        secret with Mary Valentine. He had told the story of the sheik's demand to her as soon
                        as he came aboard, and she had divulged it to Peggy the instant "Rip" was out
                        of sight.
                    Brewster found the sheik sitting in state on the upper deck impatiently awaiting the appearance
                        of his charmer. He did not know her name, but he had tranquilly commanded
                        "Rip" to produce all of the women on board  so
                        that he might select Peggy from among them. Van Winkle and Bragdon, who now was in the secret,
                        were preparing to march the ladies past the ruler when Monty came up.
                    "Has he seen Peggy?" he asked of Van Winkle.
                    "Not yet. She is dressing for the occasion."
                    "Well, wait and see what happens to him when she gets over the first shock,"
                        laughed Monty.
                    Just then the sheik discovered Peggy, who, pretty as a picture, drew near the strange group. To
                        her amazement two slaves rushed forward and obstructed her passage long enough to beat their
                        heads on the deck a few times, after which they arose and tendered two magnificent necklaces.
                        She was prepared for the proposal, but this action disconcerted her; she gasped and looked about
                        in perplexity. Her friends were smiling broadly and the sheik had placed his hands over his
                        palpitating heart.
                    "Lothario has a pain," whispered "Rip" Van Winkle
                        sympathetically, and Brewster laughed. Peggy did not hesitate an instant after hearing the
                        laugh. She walked straight toward the sheik. Her cheeks were pink and her eyes were flashing
                        dangerously. The persistent brown slaves followed with the 
                        jewels, but she ignored them completely. Brave as she intended to be, she could not repress the
                        shudder of repulsion that went over her as she looked full upon this eager Arab.
                    Graceful and slender she stood before the the burly Mohammed, but his ardor was not ***ooled by
                        the presence of so many witnesses. With a thud he dropped to his knees,
                        wabbling for a moment in the successful effort to maintain a poetic
                        equilibrium. Then he began pouring forth volumes of shattered French, English and Arabic
                        sentiment, accompanied by facial contortions so intense that they were little less than
                        gruesome.
                    "Oh, joy of the sun supreme, jewel of the only eye, harken to the entreaty of
                        Mohammed." It was more as if he were commanding his troops in battle than pleading for
                        the tender compassion of a lady love. "I am come for you, queen of the sea and earth
                        and sky. My boats are here, my camels there, and Mohammed promises you a palace in the sun-lit
                        hills if you will but let him bask forever in the glory of your smile." All this was
                        uttered in a mixture of tongues so atrocious that "Subway" Smith afterward
                        described it as a salad. The retinue bowed impressively and two or  three graceless Americans applauded as vigorously as if they were approving the actions of a
                        well-drilled comic opera chorus. Sailors were hanging in the rigging, on the davits and over the
                        deck house roof.
                    "Smile for the gentleman, Peggy," commanded Brewster delightedly. "He
                        wants to take a short bask."
                    "You are very rude, Mr. Brewster," said Peggy turning upon him coldly. Then to
                        the waiting, expectant sheik: "What is the meaning of this eloquence?"
                    Mohammed looked bewildered for a moment and then turned to the interpreter, who cleared up the
                        mystery surrounding her English. For the next three or four minutes the air was filled with the
                        "Jewels of Africa," "Star," "Sunlight,"
                        "Queen," "Heavenly Joy," "Pearl of the
                        Desert," and other things in bad English, worse French, and perfect Arabic. He was
                        making promises that could not be redeemed if he lived a thousand years. In conclusion the
                        gallant sheik drew a long breath, screwed his face into a simpering grin and played his trump
                        card in unmistakable English. It sounded pathetically like "You're a
                        peach."
                    An indecorous roar went up from the white spectators and a jacky in the rigging, su***denly  thinking of home, piped up with a bar or two from "The
                        Star Spangled Banner."
                    Having accomplished what he considered to be his part of the ceremony the sheik arose and started
                        toward his launch, coolly motioning for her to follow. So far as he was concerned the matter was
                        closed. But Peggy, her heart thumping like a trip-hammer, her eyes full of excitement, implored
                        him to stop for a moment.
                    "I appreciate this great honor, but I have a request to make," she said
                        clearly. Mohammed paused irresolutely and in some irritation.
                    "Here's where the heathen gets it among the beads," whispered Monty to
                        Mrs. Dan, and he called out: "Captain Perry, detail half a dozen men to pick up the
                        beads that are about to slip from his majesty's neck."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    THE SHEIK'S STRATEGY
                    Peggy gave the sheik an entrancing smile, followed by a brief glance at the beaming Miss
                        Valentine, who nodded her head approvingly.
                    "Won't you give me time to go below and pack my belongings that they may be
                        sent ashore?" she asked naively.
                    "Thunder!" gasped Monty. "That's no way to turn him
                        down."
                    "What do you mean, Monty Brewster?" she cried, turning upon him with flashing
                        eyes.
                    "Why, you're encouraging the old guy," he protested, disappointment in
                        every inflection.
                    "And what if I am? Isn't it my affair? I think I am right in suspecting that he
                        has asked me to be his wife. Isn't it my privilege to accept him if I wish?"
                    Brewster's face was a study. He could not believe that she was in earnest, but there was
                        a ghastly feeling that the joke was being turned on him The rest of the company stared hard at
                        the flushed Peggy and breathlessly awaited developments.
                    
                    "It won't do to trifle with this chap, Peggy," said Monty, coming
                        quite close to her. "Don't lead him on. He might get nasty if he thinks
                        you're making sport of him."
                    "You are quite absurd, Monty," she cried, petulantly. "I am not making
                        sport of him."
                    "Well, then, why don't you tell him to go about his business?"
                    "I don't see any beads lying around loose," said
                        "Rip" tormentingly. The sheik impatiently said something to the interpreter
                        and that worthy repeated it for Peggy's benefit.
                    "The Son of the Prophet desires that you be as quick as possible, Queen of the World. He
                        tires of waiting and commands you to come with him at once."
                    Peggy winced and her eyes shot a brief look of scorn at the scowling sheik. In an instant,
                        however, she was smiling agreeably and was turning toward the steps.
                    "Holy mackerel! Where are you going, Peggy?" cried Lotless, the first to turn
                        fearful.
                    "To throw some things into my trunk," she responded airily. "Will you
                        come with me, Mary?"
                    "Peggy!" cried Brewster angrily. "This has gone far enough."
                    
                    "You should have spoken sooner, Monty," she said quietly.
                    "What are you going to do, Margaret?" cried Mrs. Dan," her eyes wide
                        with amazement.
                    "I am going to marry the Son of the Prophet," she replied so decidedly that
                        everyone gasped. A moment later she was surrounded by a group of excited women, and Captain
                        Perry was calling the "jackies" forward in a voice of thunder.
                    Brewster pushed his way to her side, his face as white as death.
                    "This isn't a joke, Peggy," he cried. "Go below and
                        I'll get rid of the sheik."
                    Just then the burly Algerian asserted him-self. He did not like the way in which his adored one
                        was being handled by the "white dogs," and with two spearmen he rushed up to
                        Brewster, jabbering angrily.
                    "Stand back, you idiot, or I'll punch your head off," said Brewster,
                        with sudden emphasis.
                    It was not until this moment that Peggy realized that there might be a serious side to the little
                        farce she and Mary had decided to play for the punishment of Brewster. Terror suddenly took the
                        place of mirth, and she clung frantically to Monty's arm.
                    
                    I was joking, Monty, only joking," she cried. "Oh, what have I done?"
                    "It's my fault," he exclaimed, "but I'll take care
                        of you, never fear."
                    "Stand aside!" roared the sheik threateningly.
                    The situation was ominous. Frightened as they were the women could not flee, but stood as if
                        petrified. Sailors eagerly swarmed to the deck.
                    "Get off this boat," said Monty, ominously calm, to the interpreter,
                        "or we'll pitch you and your whole mob into the sea."
                    "Keep cool! Keep cool!" cried "Subway" Smith quickly. He
                        stepped between Brewster and the angry suitor, and that action alone prevented serious trouble.
                        While he parleyed with the sheik Mrs. DeMille hurried Peggy to a safe place below deck, and they
                        were followed by a flock of shivering women. Poor Peggy was almost in tears and the piteous
                        glances she threw at Brewster when he stepped between her and the impetuous sheik, who had
                        started to follow, struck deep into his heart and made him ready to fight to the death for her.
                    It took nearly an hour to convince the Algerian that Peggy had misunderstood him and that
                        American women were not to be  wooed after the African fashion. He
                        finally departed with his entire train, thoroughly dissatisfied and in high dudgeon. At first he
                        threatened to take her by force; then he agreed to give her another day in which to make up her
                        mind to go with him peaceably, and again he concluded that a bird in the hand was worth two in
                        the bush.
                    Brewster stood gloomily on the outside of the excited group glowering upon the ugly suitor.
                        Cooler heads had relegated him to this place of security during the diplomatic contest. The
                        sheik's threats of vengeance were direful. He swore by somebody's beard that
                        he would bring ten thousand men to establish his claim by force. His intense desire to fight for
                        her then and there was quelled by Captain Perry's detachment of six lusty sailors,
                        whose big bare fists were shaken vigorously under a few startled noses. It took all the fight
                        out of the sheik and his train. Three retainers fell into the sea while trying to retreat as far
                        as possible from danger.
                    Mohammed departed with the irate declaration that he would come another day and that the whole
                        world would tremble at his approach. Disgusted with himself and afraid to meet the eyes of the
                        other men, Brewster went below in  search of Peggy. He took time
                        to comfort the anxious women who crowded about him and then asked for Miss Gray. She was in her
                        stateroom and would not come forth. When he knocked at the door a dismal, troubled voice from
                        within told him to go away.
                    "Come out, Peggy; it's all over," he called.
                    "Please go away, Monty," she said. "What are you doing in
                        there?" There was a long pause, and then came the pitiful little wail: "I am
                        unpacking, please, sir."
                    That night Brewster entertained on board the yacht, several resident French and English
                        acquaintances being the guests of honor. The story of the day was told by Mrs. Dan DeMille,
                        commissioned especially -for the duty. She painted the scene so vividly that the guests laughed
                        with joy over the discomfiture of the shiek. Peggy and Brewster found themselves looking
                        sheepishly at one another now and then in the course of the recital. She purposely had avoided
                        him during the evening, but she had gamely endured the raillery that came from the rest of the
                        party. If she was a bit pale it was not surprising. Now that it was over the whole affair
                        appalled her more than she could have suspected. When several of the guests of the evening
                        soberly announced that Mohammed  was a dangerous man and even an
                        object of worry to the government she felt a strange catch in her throat and her now mirthless
                        eyes turned instinctively to Brewster, who, it seemed, was the sheik's special object
                        of aversion.
                    The next day she and Monty talked it over. The penitence of both was beautiful to behold. Each
                        denied the other the privilege of assuming all the blame and both were so happy that Mohammed
                        was little more than a preposition in their conversation so far as prominence was concerned. But
                        all day long the harbor was full of fisher boats, and at nightfall they still were lolling
                        about, sinister, restless, mysterious like purposeless buzzards. And the dark men on board were
                        taking up no fish, neither were they minding the nets that lay dry and folded in the bottom of
                        their boats.
                    Far into the night there was revelry on board the "Flitter," more guests having
                        come out from the city. The dark hours before the dawn of day had arrived before they put off
                        for shore, but the fisher boats still were bobbing about in the black waters of the harbor. The
                        lights gradually disappeared from the port-holes of the yacht, and the tired watch was about to
                        be relieved. Monty Brewster and Peggy remained on deck after the guests had gone  over the side of the vessel. They were leaning over the rail aft
                        listening to the jovial voices of the visitors as they grew fainter and fainter in the distance.
                        The lights of the town were few, but they could plainly be seen from the offing.
                    "Are you tired, Peggy?" asked Brewster, with a touch of tenderness. Somehow of
                        late he had often felt a strange desire to take her in his arms, and now it was strong upon him.
                        She was very near, and there was a drooping weariness in her attitude which seemed to demand
                        protection.
                    "I have a queer feeling that something awful is going to happen to-night,
                        Monty," she answered, trouble in her soft voice.
                    "You're nervous, that's all," he said, "and you
                        should get to sleep. Good-night." Their hands touched in the darkness, and the thrill
                        that went over him told a truth of which he had been only vaguely conscious. The power of it
                        made him exultant. Yet when he thought of her and her too quiet affection for him it left him
                        despondent.
                    Something bumped against the side of the ship and a grating sound followed. Then came other
                        gentle thuds combined with the soft swish of water disturbed. Peggy and Brewster were on the
                        point of going below  when their attention was caught by these
                        strange sounds.
                    "What is it?" she asked as they paused irresolutely. He strode to the rail, the
                        girl following close behind. Three sharp little whistles came from above and behind them, but
                        before they had time even to speculate as to their meaning the result was in evidence.
                    Over the sides of the ship came shadowy forms as if by magic; at their backs panther-like bodies
                        dropped to the deck with stealthy thuds, as if coming from the inky sky above. There was an
                        instant of dreadful calm and then the crisis. A dozen sinewy forms hurled themselves upon
                        Brewster, who, taken completely by surprise, was thrown to the deck in an instant, his attempt
                        to cry out for help being checked by heavy hands. Peggy's scream was cut off as
                        quickly, and paralyzed by terror, she felt herself engulfed in strong arms and smothered into
                        silence. It all happened so quickly that there was no chance to give the alarm, no opportunity
                        to resist.
                    Brewster felt himself lifted bodily, and then there was the sensation of falling. He struck
                        something forcibly with all his weight and fell back with a crash to the deck. Afterward he
                        found that the effort to throw him  overboard had failed only
                        because his assailants in their haste had hurled him against an unseen stanchion. Peggy was
                        borne forward and lowered swiftly into arms that deposited her roughly upon something hard.
                        There was a jerky, rocking motion, the sudden splash of oars, and then she knew no more.
                    The invaders had planned with a craftiness and patience that deserved success. For hours they had
                        waited, silently, watchfully, and with deadly assurance. How they crept up to the
                        "Flitter" in such numbers and how the more daring came aboard long before the
                        blow was struck, no one ever explained. So quickly and so accurately was the abduction performed
                        that the boats were well -clear of the yacht before alarm was given by one of the watch who had
                        been overlooked in the careful assault.
                    Sleepy sailors rushed on deck with a promptness that was amazing. Very quickly they had found and
                        unbound Brewster, carried a couple of wounded shipmates below and had Captain Perry in his
                        pajamas on deck to take command.
                    "The searchlight!" cried Brewster frantically. "The devils have stolen
                        Miss Gray."
                    While swift hands were lowering the boats for the chase others were carrying firearms on deck.
                        The searchlight threw its mighty white  arm out over the water
                        before many seconds had passed, and eager eyes were looking for the boats of the pillagers. The
                        Arabs had reckoned without the searchlight. Their fierce exultation died suddenly when the
                        mysterious streak of light shot into the sky and then swept down upon the sea, hunting them out
                        of the darkness like a great and relentless eye.
                    The "Flitter's" boats were in the water and manned by sturdy oarsmen
                        before the glad cry went up that the robber fleet had been discovered. They were so near the
                        yacht that it was evident the dusky tribesmen were poor oarsmen. In the clear light from the
                        ship's deck they could be seen paddling wildly, their white robes fluttering as though
                        inspired by fear. There were four boats, all of them crowded to the gunwales.
                    "Keep the light on them, captain," shouted Monty from below. "Try to
                        pick out the boat that has Miss Gray on board. Pull away, boys! This means a hundred dollars to
                        every one of youyes, a thousand if we have to fight for her!"
                    "Kill every damned one of them, Mr. Brewster," roared the captain, who had
                        retired behind a boat when he became aware of the presence of women on deck.
                    
                    Three boats shot away from the side of the yacht, Brewster and Joe Bragdon in the first, both
                        armed with rifles.
                    "Let's take a shot at 'em," cried a sailor who stood in the
                        stern with his finger on a trigger.
                    "Don't do that! We don't know what boat holds Peggy,"
                        commanded Brewster. "Keep cool, boys, and be ready to scrap if we have to." He
                        was half mad with fear and anxiety, and he was determined to exterminate the bands of robbers if
                        harm came to the girl in their power.
                    "She's in the second boat," came the cry from the yacht, and the
                        searchlight was kept on that particular object almost to the exclusion of the others. But
                        Captain Perry saw the wisdom of keeping all of them clearly located in order to prevent
                        trickery.
                    Brewster's brawny sailor boys came up like greyhounds, cheering as they dashed among the
                        boats of the fugitives. Three or four shots were fired into the air by the zealous American
                        lads, and there were loud cries from the Arabs as they veered off panic-stricken.
                        Monty's boat was now in the path of light and not far behind the one which held Peggy.
                        He was standing in the bow.
                    
                    "Take care of the others!" he called back to his followers.
                        "We'll go after the leaders."
                    The response from behind was a cheer, a half dozen shots and some of the most joyous profanity
                        that ever fell from the lips of American sailors, mingled with shrieks from the boats they were
                        to "take care of."
                    "Stop!" Brewster shouted to the Arabs. "Stop, or we'll kill
                        every one of you!" His boat was not more than fifty feet from the other.
                    Suddenly a tall, white-robed figure arose in the middle of the Egyptian craft, and a moment later
                        the pursuers saw Peggy's form passed up to him. She was instantly clasped by one of his
                        long arms, and the other was lifted high above her. A gleaming knife was held in the upraised
                        hand.
                    "Fire on us if you dare!" came in French from the tall Arab. "Dog of
                        an American, she shall die if you come near her!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    THE RESCUE OF PEGGY
                    Brewster's heart almost ceased beating, and every vestige of color left his face. Clear
                        and distinct in the light from the yacht the Arab and his burden were outlined against the black
                        screen beyond. There was no mistaking the earnestness of the threat, nor could the witnesses
                        doubt the ghastly intention of the long, cruel knife that gleamed on high. Peggy's body
                        served as a shield for that of her captor. Brewster and Bragdon recognized the man as one of
                        Mohammed's principal retainers, a fierce-looking fellow who had attracted more than
                        usual attention on the day of the sheik's visit.
                    "For God's sake, don't kill her!" cried Brewster in agonized
                        tones. There was a diabolical grin on the face of the Arab, who was about to shout back some
                        defiant taunt when the unexpected happened.
                    The sharp crack of a gun sounded in the stern of Brewster's boat, and an unerring bullet
                        sped straight for the big Arab's forehead.  It crashed
                        between his eyes and death must have been instantaneous. The knife flew from his hand, his body
                        straightened and then collapsed, toppling over, not among his oarsmen, but across the gunwale of
                        the craft. Before a hand could be lifted to prevent, the dead Arab and the girl were plunged
                        into the sea.
                    A cry of horror went up from the Americans, and something surprisingly like a shout of triumph
                        from the abductors. Even as Brewster poised for the spring into the water a flying form shot
                        past him and into the sea with a resounding splash. The man that fired the shot had reckoned
                        cleverly, and he was carrying out the final details of an inspired plan. The Arab's
                        position as he stood in the boat was such as to warrant the sailor's belief that he
                        could fall no other way than forward, and that meant over the side of the boat. With all this
                        clearly in mind he had shot straight and true and was on his way to the water almost as the two
                        toppled overboard.
                    Monty Brewster was in the water an instant later, striking out for the spot where they had
                        disappeared, a little to the left of the course in which his boat was running. There was a
                        rattle of firearms, with curses and cheers,  but he paid no heed
                        to these sounds. He was a length or two behind the sailor, praying with all his soul that one or
                        the other might succeed in reaching the white robes that still kept the surface of the water.
                        His crew was "backing water" and straining every muscle to bring the boat
                        around sharp for the rescue.
                    The sailor's powerful strokes brought him to the spot first, but not in time to clutch
                        the disappearing white robes. Just as he reached out an arm to grasp the form of the girl she
                        went down. He did not hesitate a second but followed. Peggy had fallen from the dead
                        Arab's embrace, and that worthy already was at the bottom of the sea. She was half
                        conscious when the shot came, but the plunge into the cold water revived her. Her struggles were
                        enough to keep her up for a few moments, but not long enough for the swimmers to reach her side.
                        She felt herself going down and down, strangling, smothering, dying. Then something vise-like
                        clutched her arm and she had the sensation of being jerked upward violently.
                    The sailor fought his way to the surface with the girl, and Brewster was at his side in an
                        instant. Together they supported her until one of the boats came up, and they were drawn  over the side to safety. By this time the abductors had scattered
                        like sheep without a leader, and as there was no further object in pursuing them the little
                        American fleet put back for the yacht in great haste. Peggy was quite conscious when carried
                        aboard by the triumphant Brewster. The words he whispered to her as she lay in the bottom of the
                        boat were enough to give her life.
                    The excitement on board the "Flitter" was boundless. Fear gave way to joy, and
                        where despair had for a moment reigned supreme, there was now the most insane delight. Peggy was
                        bundled below and into her berth, Dr. Lotless attending her, assisted by all the women on board.
                        Brewster and the sailor, drenched but happy, were carried on the shoulders of enthusiastic
                        supporters to a place where hot toddies were to be had before blankets.
                    "You have returned the favor, Conroy," said Brewster fervently, as he leaned
                        across the heads of his bearers to shake hands with the sailor who was sharing the honors with
                        him. Conroy was grinning from ear to ear as he sat perched on the shoulders of his shipmates.
                        "I was luckier than I thought in saving your life that day."
                    
                    "It wasn't anything, Mr. Brewster," said young Conroy. "I saw
                        a chance to drop the big nigger, and then it was up to me to get her out of the water."
                    "You took a big risk, Conroy, but you made good with it. If it had not been for you, my
                        boy, they might have got away with Miss Gray."
                    "Don't mention it, Mr. Brewster, it was nothing to do," protested
                        Conroy in confusion. "I'd do anything in the world for you and for
                        her."
                    "What is the adage about casting your bread upon the water and getting it back
                        again?" asked "Rip" Van Winkle of Joe Bragdon as they jubilantly
                        followed the procession below.
                    There was no more sleep on board that night. In fact the sun was not long in showing himself
                        after the rescuers returned to the vessel. The daring attempt of Mohammed's emissaries
                        was discussed without restraint, and every sailor had a story to tell of the pursuit and rescue.
                        The event furnished conversational food for days and days among both the seamen and the
                        passengers. Dan DeMille blamed himself relentlessly for sleeping through it all and moped for
                        hours because he had lost a magnificent chance to "do something."  The next morning he proposed to hunt for the sheik, and offered
                        to lead an assault in person. An investigation was made and government officials tried to call
                        Mohammed to account, but he had fled to the desert and the search was fruitless.
                    Brewster refused to accept a share of the glory of Peggy's rescue, pushing Conroy
                        forward as the real hero. But the sailor insisted that he could not have succeeded without help,
                        that he was completely exhausted when Monty came to the rescue. Peggy found it hard to thank him
                        gently while her heart was so dangerously near the riot point, and her words of gratitude
                        sounded pitifully weak and insufficient.
                    "It would have been the same had anybody else gone to her rescue," he mused
                        dejectedly. "She cares for me with the devotion of a sister and that's all.
                        Peggy, Peggy," he moaned, "if you could only love me, I'dI'
                        doh, well, there's no use thinking about it! She will love someone else, of course, and
                        and be happy, too. If she'd appear only one-tenth as grateful to me as to Conroy
                        I'd be satisfied. He had the luck to be first, that's all, but God knows I
                        tried to do it."
                    Mrs. Dan DeMille was keen enough to see  how the land lay, and she
                        at once tried to set matters straight. She was far too clever to push her campaign ruthlessly,
                        but laid her foundations and then built cunningly and securely with the most substantial
                        material that came to hand from day to day. Her subjects were taking themselves too deeply to
                        heart to appreciate interference on the part of an outsider, and Mrs. Dan was wise in the whims
                        of love.
                    Peggy was not herself for several days after her experience, and the whole party felt a distinct
                        relief when the yacht finally left the harbor and steamed off to the west. A cablegram that came
                        the day before may have had something to do with Brewster's depression, but he was not
                        the sort to confess it. It was from Swearengen Jones, of Butte, Montana, and there was something
                        sinister in the laconic admonition. It read:
                    "BREWSTER, U. S. CONSULATE, ALEXANDRIA. "Have a good time while good times
                        last.
                    "JONES."
                    His brain was almost bursting with the hopes and fears and uncertainties that crowded it far
                        beyond its ordinary capacity. It had come to the point, it seemed to him, when the brains of a
                        dozen men at least were required to  operate the affairs that were
                        surging into his alone. The mere fact that the end of his year was less than two months off, and
                        that there was more or less uncertainty as to the character of the end, was sufficient cause for
                        worry, but the new trouble was infinitely harder to endure. When he sat down to think over his
                        financial enterprises his mind treacherously wandered off to Peggy Gray, and then everything was
                        hopeless. He recalled the courage and confidence that had carried him to Barbara Drew with a
                        declaration of loveto the stunning, worldly Barbara and smiled bitterly when he saw how basely
                        the two allies were deserting him in this hour of love for Peggy Gray. For some reason he had
                        felt sure of Barbara; for another reason he saw no chance with Peggy. She was not the same
                        sortshe was different. She waswell, she was Peggy.
                    Occasionally his reflections assumed the importance of calculations. His cruise was sure to cost
                        $200,000, a princely sum, but not enough. Swearengen Jones and his cablegram did not awe him to
                        a great extent. The spending of the million had become a mania with him now and he had no regard
                        for consequences. His one desire, aside from Peggy, was to increase the cost of the cruise.  They were leaving Gibraltar when a new idea came into his
                        troubled head.
                    He decided to change his plans and sail for the North Cape, thereby adding more than $30,000 to
                        his credit.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    THE MUTINY
                    Monty was on deck when the inspiration seized him, and he lost no time in telling his guests, who
                        were at breakfast. Although he had misgivings about their opinion of the scheme, he was not
                        prepared for the ominous silence that followed his announcement.
                    "Are you in earnest, Mr. Brewster?" asked Captain Perry, who was the first of
                        the company to recover from the surprise.
                    "Of course I am. I chartered this boat for four months with the privilege of another
                        month. I can see no reason to prevent us from prolonging the trip." Monty's
                        manner was full of self-assurance as he continued: "You people are so in the habit of
                        protesting against every suggestion I make that you can't help doing it now."
                    "But, Monty," said Mrs. Dan, "what if your guests would rather go
                        home?"
                    "Nonsense; you were asked for a five months' cruise. Besides, think of getting
                        home in the middle of August, with everyone away. It would be like going to
                        Philadelphia."
                    
                    Brave as he was in the presence of his friends, in the privacy of his stateroom Monty gave way to
                        the depression that was bearing down upon him. It was the hardest task of his life to go on with
                        his scheme in the face of opposition. He knew that every man and woman on board was against the
                        proposition, for his sake at least, and it was difficult to be arbitrary under the
                        circumstances. Purposely he avoided Peggy all forenoon. His single glance at her face in the
                        salon was enough to disturb him immeasurably.
                    The spirits of the crowd were subdued. The North Cape had charms, but the proclamation concerning
                        it had been too suddenhad reversed too quickly the general expectation and desire. Many of the
                        guests had plans at home for August, and even those who had none were satiated with excitement.
                        During the morning they gathered in little knots to discuss the situation. They were all
                        generous and each one was sure that be could cruise indefinitely, if on Monty's account
                        the new voyage were not out of the question. They felt it their duty to take a desperate stand.
                    The half-hearted little gatherings resolved themselves into ominous groups and in the end there was a call for a general meeting in the main cabin.
                        Captain Perry, the first mate, and the chief engineer were included in the call, but Montgomery
                        Brewster was not to be admitted. Joe Bragdon loyally agreed to keep him engaged elsewhere while
                        the meeting was in progress. The doors were locked and a cursory glance assured the chairman of
                        the meeting, Dan DeMille, that no member of the party was missing save the devoted Bragdon.
                        Captain Perry was plainly nervous and disturbed. The others were the victims of a suppressed
                        energy that presaged subsequent eruptions.
                    "Captain Perry, we are assembled here for a purpose," said DeMille, clearing
                        his throat three times. "First of all, as we understand it, you are the sailing master
                        of this ship. In other words, you are, according to maritime law, the commander of this
                        expedition. You alone can give orders to the sailors and you alone can clear a port. Mr.
                        Brewster has no authority except that vested in a common employer. Am I correct?"
                    "Mr. DeMille, if Mr. Brewster instructs me to sail for the North Cape, I shall do
                        so," said the captain, firmly. "This boat is his for the full term of the
                        lease and I am engaged to sail  her with my crew until the tenth
                        of next September."
                    "We understand your position, captain, and I am sure you appreciate ours. It
                        isn't that we want to end a very delightful cruise, but that we regard it as sheer
                        folly for Mr. Brewster to extend the tour at such tremendous expense. He isor wasa rich man, but
                        it is impossible to ignore the fact that he is plunging much too heavily. In plain words, we
                        want to keep him from spending more of his money on this cruise. Do you understand our position,
                        Captain Perry?"
                    "Fully. I wish with all my soul that I could help you and him. My hands are tied by
                        contract, however, much as I regret it at this moment."
                    "How does the crew feel about this additional trip, captain?" asked DeMille.
                    "They shipped for five months and will receive five months' pay. The men have
                        been handsomely treated and they will stick to Mr. Brewster to the end," said the
                        captain.
                    "There is no chance for a mutiny, then?" asked Smith regretfully. The captain
                        gave him a hard look, but said nothing. Everybody seemed uncomfortable.
                    "Apparently the only way is the one suggested  by Mr.
                        Smith this morning," said Mrs. Dan speaking for the women. "No one will
                        object, I am sure, if Captain Perry and his chief officers are allowed to hear the
                        plan."
                    "It is very necessary, in fact," said Mr. Valentine. "We cannot
                        proceed without them. But they will agree with us, I am sure, that it is wise,"
                    An hour later the meeting broke up and the conspirators made their way to the deck. It was a
                        strange fact that no one went alone. They were in groups of three and four and the mystery that
                        hung about them was almost perceptible. Not one was willing to face the excited, buoyant
                        Brewster without help; they found strength and security in companionship.
                    Peggy was the one rebel against the conspiracy, and yet she knew that the others were justified
                        in the step they proposed to take. She reluctantly joined them in the end, but felt that she was
                        the darkest traitor in the crowd. Forgetting her own distress over the way in which Monty was
                        squandering his fortune, she stood out the one defender of his rights until the end and then
                        admitted tearfully to Mrs. DeMille that she had been "quite unreasonable" in
                        doing so.
                    Alone in her stateroom after signing the  agreement, she wondered
                        what he would think of her. She owed him so much that she at least should have stood by him. She
                        felt that he would be conscious of this. How could she have turned against him? He would not
                        understandof course he would never understand. And he would hate her with the othersmore than
                        the others. It was all a wretched muddle and she could not see her way out of it.
                    Monty found his guests very difficult. They listened to his plans with but little interest, and
                        he could not but see that they were uncomfortable. The situation was new to their experience,
                        and they were under a strain. "They mope around like a lot of pouting boys and
                        girls," he growled to himself. "But it's the North Cape now in spite
                        of everything. I don't care if the whole crowd deserts me, my mind is made
                        up."
                    Try as he would, he could not see Peggy alone. He had much that he wanted to say to her and he
                        hungered for the consolation her approval would bring him, but she clung to Pettingill with a
                        tenacity that was discouraging. The old feeling of jealousy that was connected with Como again
                        disturbed him.
                    "She thinks that I am a hopeless, brainless 
                        idiot," he said to himself. "And I don't blame her, either."
                    Just before nightfall he noticed that his friends were assembling in the bow. As he started to
                        join the group "Subway" Smith and DeMille advanced to meet him. Some of the
                        others were smiling a little sheepishly, but the two men were pictures of solemnity and
                        decision.
                    "Monty," said DeMille steadily, "we have been conspiring against you
                        and have decided that we sail for New York to-morrow morning."
                    Brewster stopped short and the expression on his face was one they never could forget.
                        Bewilderment, uncertainty and pain succeeded each other like flashes of light. Not a word was
                        spoken for several seconds. The red of humiliation slowly mounted to his cheeks, while in his
                        eyes wavered the look of one who has been hunted down.
                    "You have decided?" he asked lifelessly, and more than one heart went out in
                        pity to him.
                    "We hated to do it, Monty, but for your own sake there was no other way," said
                        "Subway" Smith quickly. "We took a vote and there wasn't a
                        dissenting voice."
                    
                    "It is a plain case of mutiny, I take it," said Monty, utterly alone and
                        heart-sick.
                    "It isn't necessary to tell you why we have taken this step," said
                        DeMille. "It is heartbreaking to oppose you at this stage of the game. You've
                        been the best ever and"
                    "Cut that," cried Monty, and his confidence in himself was fast returning.
                        "This is no time to throw bouquets."
                    "We like you, Brewster." Mr. Valentine came to the chairman's
                        assistance because the others had looked at him so appealingly. "We like you so well
                        that we can't take the responsibility for your extravagance. It would disgrace us
                        all."
                    "That side of the matter was never mentioned," cried Peggy indignantly, and
                        then added with a catch in her voice, "We thought only of you."
                    "I appreciate your motives and I am grateful to you," said Monty. "I
                        am more sorry than I can tell you that the cruise must end in this way, but I too have decided.
                        The yacht will take you to some point where you can catch a steamer to New York. I shall secure
                        passage for the entire party and very soon you will be at home. Captain Perry, will you oblige
                        me by making at once for any port that my guests  may agree
                        upon?" He was turning away deliberately when "Subway" Smith detained
                        him.
                    "What do you mean by getting a steamer to New York? Isn't the
                        'Flitter' good enough?" he asked.
                    "The 'Flitter' is not going to New York just now," answered
                        Brewster firmly, "notwithstanding your ultimatum. She is going to take me to the North Cape."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    A FAIR TRAITOR
                    "Now will you be good?" cried Reggie Vanderpool to DeMille as Monty went down
                        the companionway. The remark was precisely what was needed, for the pent-up feelings of the
                        entire company were now poured forth upon the unfortunate young man. "Subway"
                        Smith was for hanging him to the yard arm, and the denunciation of the others was so decisive
                        that Reggie sought refuge in the chart house. But the atmosphere had been materially cleared and
                        the leaders of the mutiny were in a position to go into executive session and consider the
                        matter. The women waited on deck while the meeting lasted. They were unanimous in the opinion
                        that the affair had been badly managed.
                    "They should have offered to stay by the ship providing Monty would let Mr. DeMille
                        manage the cruise," said Miss Valentine. "That would have been a concession
                        and at the same time it would have put the cruise on an economical basis."
                    "In other words you will accept a man's 
                        invitation to dinner if he will allow you to order it and invite the other guests,"
                        said Peggy, who was quick to defend Monty.
                    "Well that would be better than helping to eat up every bit of food he
                        possessed." But Miss Valentine always avoided argument when she could and gave this as
                        a parting thrust before she walked away.
                    "There must be something more than we know about in Monty's
                        extravagance," said Mrs. Dan. "He isn't the kind of man to squander
                        his last penny without having something left to show for it. There must be method in his
                        madness."
                    "He has done it for us," said Peggy. "He has devoted himself all along
                        to giving us a good time and now we are showing our gratitude."
                    Further discussion was prevented by the appearance of the conspiring committee the whole company
                        was summoned to hear DeMille's report as chairman.
                    "We have found a solution of our difficulties," he began, and his manner was so
                        jubilant that everyone became hopeful. "It is desperate but I think it will be
                        effective. Monty has given us the privilege of leaving the yacht at any port where we can take a
                             steamer to New York. Now, my suggestion is that we select the
                        most convenient place for all of us, and obviously there is nothing quite so convenient as
                        Boston."
                    "Dan DeMille, you are quite foolish," cried his wife. "Who ever
                        conceived such a ridiculous idea?"
                    "Captain Perry has his instructions," continued DeMille, turning to the
                        captain. "Are we not acting along the lines marked out by Brewster himself?"
                    "I will sail for Boston if you say the word," said the thoughtful captain.
                        "But he is sure to countermand such an order."
                    "He won't be able to, captain," cried "Subway"
                        Smith, who had for some time been eager to join in the conversation. "This is a
                        genuine, dyed-in-the-wool mutiny and we expect to carry out the original plan, which was to put
                        Mr. Brewster in irons, until we are safe from all opposition."
                    "He is my friend, Mr. Smith, and at least it is my duty to protect him from any
                        indignity," said the captain, stiffly.
                    "You make for Boston, my dear captain, and we'll do the rest," said
                        DeMille. "Mr. Brewster can't countermand your orders unless he sees you in
                        person. We'll see to it that he  has no chance to talk to
                        you until we are in sight of Boston Harbor."
                    The captain looked doubtful and shook his head as he walked away. At heart he was with the
                        mutineers and his mind was made up to assist them as long as it was possible to do so without
                        violating his obligations to Brewster. He felt guilty, however, in surreptitiously giving the
                        order to clear for Boston at daybreak. The chief officers were let into the secret, but the
                        sailors were kept in darkness regarding the destination of the "Flitter."
                    Montgomery Brewster's guests were immensely pleased with the scheme, although they were
                        dubious about the outcome. Mrs. Dan regretted her hasty comment on the plan and entered into the
                        plot with eagerness. In accordance with plans decided upon by the mutineers, Monty's
                        stateroom door was guarded through the night by two of the men. The next morning as he emerged
                        from his room, he was met by "Subway" Smith and Dan DeMille.
                    "Good morning," was his greeting. "How's the weather
                        to-day?"
                    "Bully," answered DeMille. "By the way, you are going to have
                        breakfast in your room, old man."
                    
                    Brewster unsuspectingly led the way into his stateroom, the two following.
                    "What's the mystery?" he demanded.
                    "We've been deputized to do some very nasty work," said
                        "Subway" as he turned the key in the door. "We are here to tell you
                        what port we have chosen."
                    "It's awfully good of you to tell me."
                    "Yes, isn't it? But we have studied up on the chivalrous treatment of
                        prisoners. We have decided on Boston."
                    "Is there a Boston on this side of the water?" asked Monty in mild surprise.
                    "No; there is only one Boston in the universe, so far as we know. It is a large body of
                        intellect surrounded by the rest of the world."
                    "What the devil are you talking about? You don't mean Boston,
                        Massachusetts?" cried Monty, leaping to his feet.
                    "Precisely. That's the port for us and you told us to choose for
                        ourselves," said Smith.
                    "Well, I won't have it, that's all," exclaimed Brewster,
                        indignantly. "Captain Perry takes orders from me and from no one else."
                    "He already has his orders," said DeMille, smiling mysteriously.
                    "I'll see about that. Brewster sprang to the door. It was locked and the key
                        was in "Subway"  Smith's pocket. With
                        an impatient exclamation he turned and pressed an electric button.
                    "It won't ring, Monty," explained "Subway."
                        "The wire has been cut. Now, be cool for a minute or two and we'll talk it
                        over."
                    Brewster stormed for five minutes, the "delegation" sitting calmly by, smiling
                        with exasperating confidence. At last he calmed down and in terms of reason demanded an
                        explanation. He was given to understand that the yacht would sail for Boston and that he would
                        be kept a prisoner for the entire voyage unless he submitted to the will of the majority.
                    Brewster listened darkly to the proclamation. He saw that they had gained the upper hand by a
                        clever ruse, and that only strategy on his part could outwit them. It was out of the question
                        for him to submit to them now that the controversy had assumed the dignity of a struggle.
                    "But you will be reasonable, won't you?" asked DeMille, anxiously.
                    "I intend to fight it out to the bitter end," said Brewster, his eyes flashing.
                        "At present I am your prisoner, but it is a long way to Boston."
                    
                    For three days and two nights the "Flitter" steamed westward into the Atlantic,
                        with her temporary owner locked into his stateroom. The confinement was irksome, but he rather
                        liked the sensation of being interested in something besides money. He frequently laughed to
                        himself over the absurdity of the situation. His enemies were friends, true and devoted; his
                        gaolers were relentless but they were considerate. The original order that he should be guarded
                        by one man was violated on the first day. There were times when his guard numbered at least ten
                        persons and some of them served tea and begged him to listen to reason.
                    "It is difficult not to listen," he said fiercely. "It's like
                        holding a man down and then asking him to be quiet. But my time is coming."
                    "Revenge will be his!" exclaimed Mrs. Dan, tragically.
                    "You might have your term shortened on account of good conduct if you would only
                        behave," suggested Peggy, whose reserve was beginning to soften. "Please be
                        good and give in."
                    "I haven't been happier during the whole cruise," said Monty.
                        "On deck I wouldn't  be noticed, but here I am
                        quite the whole thing. Besides I can get out whenever I feel like it."
                    "I have a thousand dollars which says you can't," said DeMille, and
                        Monty snapped him up so eagerly that he added, "that you can't get out of your
                        own accord."
                    Monty acceded to the condition and offered odds on the proposition to the others, but there were
                        no takers.
                    "That settles it," he smiled grimly to himself. "I can make a thousand
                        dollars by staying here and I can't afford to escape."
                    On the third day of Monty's imprisonment the "Flitter" began to roll
                        heavily. At first he gloated over the discomfort of his guards who obviously did not like to
                        stay below. "Subway" Smith and Bragdon were on duty and neither was famous as
                        a good sailor. When Monty lighted his pipe there was consternation and
                        "Subway" rushed on deck.
                    
                        "You are a brave man, Joe," Monty said to the other and blew
                        a cloud of smoke in his direction. "I knew you would stick to your post. You
                        wouldn't leave it even if the ship should go down."
                    Bragdon had reached the stage where he dared not speak and was busying himself trying  to "breathe with the motion of the boat" as he
                        had called it.
                    "By Gad," continued Monty, relentlessly. "This smoke is getting thick.
                        Some of this toilet water might help if I sprinkled it about."
                    One whiff of the sweet-smelling cologne was enough for Bragdon and he bolted up the companionway,
                        leaving the stateroom door wide open and the prisoner free to go where he pleased.
                        Monty's first impulse was to follow but he checked himself on the threshold.
                    "Damn that bet with DeMille," he said to himself, and added aloud to the
                        fleeing guard, "The key, Joe, I dare you to come back and get it!"
                    But Bragdon was beyond recall and Monty locked the door on the inside and passed the key through
                        the ventilator.
                    On deck a small part of the company braved the spray in the lee of the deck house, but the others
                        had long since gone below. The boat was pitching furiously in the ugliest sea it had
                        encountered, and there was anxiety underneath Captain Perry's mask of unconcern.
                        DeMille and Dr. Lotless talked in the senseless way men have when they try to conceal their
                        nervousness. But the women did not respond; they were in no mood for conversation.
                    
                    Only one of them was quite oblivious to personal discomfort and danger. Peggy Gray was thinking
                        of the prisoner below. In a reflection of her own terror, she pictured him crouching in the
                        little stateroom, like a doomed criminal awaiting execution, alone, neglected, forgotten,
                        unpitied. At first she pleaded with the men for his release, but they insisted upon waiting in
                        the hope that a scare might bring him to his senses. Peggy saw that no help was to be secured
                        from the other women, much as they might care for Brewster's peace of mind and safety.
                        Her heart was bitter toward everyone responsible for the situation, and there was dark rebellion
                        in her soul. It culminated finally in a resolve to release Monty Brewster at any cost.
                    With difficulty she made her way to the stateroom door, clinging to supports at times and then
                        plunging violently away from them. For some minutes she listened, frantically clutching
                        Brewster's door and the wall-rail. There was no guard, and the tumult of the sea
                        drowned every sound within. Her imagination ran riot when her repeated calls were not answered.
                    "Monty, Monty," she cried, pounding wildly on the door.
                    
                    "Who is it? What is the trouble?" came in muffled tones from within, and Peggy
                        breathed a prayer of thanks. Just then she discovered the key which Monty had dropped and
                        quickly opened the door, expecting to find him cowering with fear. But the picture was
                        different. The prisoner was seated on the divan, propped up with many pillows and reading with
                        the aid of an electric light "The Intrusions of Peggy."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    A CATASTROPHE
                    "Oh!" was Peggy's only exclamation, and there was a shadow of
                        disappointment in her eyes.
                    "Come in, Peggy, and I'll read aloud," was Monty's cheerful
                        greeting as he stood before her.
                    "No, I must go," said Peggy, confusedly. "I thought you might be
                        nervous about the stormand"
                    "And you came to let me out?" Monty had never been so happy.
                    "Yes, and I don't care what the others say. I thought you were
                        suffering" But at that moment the boat gave a lurch which threw her across the
                        threshold into Monty's arms. They crashed against the wall, and he held her a moment
                        and forgot the storm. When she drew away from him she showed him the open door and freedom. She
                        could not speak.
                    "Where are the others?" he asked, bracing himself in the doorway.
                    "Oh, Monty," she cried, "we must not go to them. They will think me a
                        traitor."
                    
                    "Why were you a traitor, Peggy?" he demanded, turning toward her suddenly.
                    "Ohoh, because it seemed so cruel to keep you locked up through the storm," she
                        answered, blushing.
                    "And there was no other reason?" he persisted.
                    "Don't, please don't" she cried, piteously, and he
                        misunderstood her emotion. It was clear that she was merely sorry for him.
                    "Never mind, Peggy, it's all right. You stood by me and I'll stand by
                        you. Come on; we'll face the mob and I'll do the fighting."
                    Together they made their way into the presence of the mutineers, who were crowded into the main
                        cabin.
                    "Well, here's a conspiracy," cried Dan DeMille, but there was no anger
                        in his voice. "How did you escape? I was just thinking of unlocking your door, Monty,
                        but the key seemed to be missing."
                    Peggy displayed it triumphantly.
                    "By Jove," cried Dan. "This is rank treachery. Who was on
                        guard?"
                    A steward rushing through the cabin at this moment in answer to frantic calls from Bragdon
                        furnished an eloquent reply to the question.
                    
                    "It was simple," said Monty. "The guards deserted their post and left
                        the key behind."
                    "Then it is up to me to pay you a thousand dollars."
                    "Not at all," protested Monty, taken aback. "I did not escape of my
                        own accord. I had help. The money is yours. And now that I am free," he added, quietly,
                        "let me say that this boat does not go to Boston."
                    "Just what I expected," cried Vanderpool.
                    "She's going straight to New York!" declared Monty. The words were
                        hardly uttered when a heavy sea sent him sprawling across the cabin and he concluded,
                        "or to the bottom."
                    "Not so bad as that," said Captain Perry, whose entrance had been somewhat
                        hastened by the lurch of the boat. "But until this blows over I must keep you
                        below." He laughed but he saw they were not deceived. "The seas are pretty
                        heavy and the decks are being holystoned for nothing, but I wouldn't like to have any
                        of you washed overboard by mistake."
                    The hatches were battened down, and it was a sorry company that tried to while away the evening
                        in the main cabin. Monty's chaffing about the advantages of the North Cape over the
                        stormy Atlantic was not calculated to raise the dropping spirits, and it was very early when he and his shattered guests turned in. There was little
                        sleep on board the "Flitter" that night. Even if it had been easy to forget
                        the danger, the creaking of the ship and the incessant roar of the water were enough for
                        wakefulness. With each lurch of the boat it seemed more incredible that it could endure. It was
                        such a mite of a thing to meet so furious an attack. As it rose on the wave to pause in terror
                        on its crest before sinking shivering into the trough, it made the breath come short and the
                        heart stand still. Through the night the fragile little craft fought its lonely way, bravely
                        ignoring its own weakness and the infinite strength of its enemy. To the captain, lashed to the
                        bridge, there were hours of grave anxietyhours when he feared each wave as it approached, and
                        wondered what new damage it had done as it receded. As the wind increased toward morning he felt
                        a sickening certainty that the brave little boat was beaten. Somehow she seemed to lose courage,
                        to waver a bit and almost give up the fight. He watched her miserably as the dismal dawn came up
                        out of the sea. Yet it was not until seven o'clock that the crash came, which shook the
                        passengers out of their berths and filled them with shivering terror. The whirling of the
                            broken shaft seemed to consume the ship. In every cabin it
                        spoke with horrible vividness of disaster. The clamor of voices and the rush of many feet, which
                        followed, meant but one thing. Almost instantly the machinery was stoppedan ominous silence in
                        the midst of the dull roar of the water and the cry of the wind.
                    It was a terrified crowd that quickly gathered in the main cabin, but it was a brave one. There
                        were no cries and few tears. They expected anything and were ready for the worst, but they would
                        not show the white feather. It was Mrs. Dan who broke the tension. "I made sure of my
                        pearls," she said; "I thought they would be appreciated at the bottom of the
                        sea."
                    Brewster came in upon their laughter. "I like your nerve, people," he
                        exclaimed, "you are all right. It won't be so bad now. The wind has
                        dropped."
                    Long afterward when they talked the matter over, DeMille claimed that the only thing that
                        bothered him that night was the effort to decide whether the club of which he and Monty were
                        members would put in the main hallway two black-bordered cards, each bearing a name, or only one
                        with both names. Mr. Valentine regretted that he had gone on for years paying life insurance premiums when now his only relatives were on the
                        boat and would die with him.
                    The captain, looking pretty rocky after his twenty-hour vigil, summoned his chief.
                        "We're in a bad hole, Mr. Brewster," he said when they were alone,
                        "and no mistake. A broken shaft and this weather make a pretty poor
                        combination."
                    "Is there no chance of making a port for repairs?"
                    "I don't see it, sir. It looks like a long pull."
                    "We are way off our course, I suppose?" and Monty's coolness won
                        Captain Perry's admiration.
                    "I can't tell just how much until I get the sun, but this wind is hell. I
                        suspect we've drifted pretty far."
                    "Come and get some coffee, captain. While the storm lasts the only thing to do is to
                        cheer up the women and trust to luck."
                    "You are the nerviest mate I ever shipped with, Mr. Brewster," and the
                        captain's hand gripped Monty's in a way that meant things. It was a tribute he
                        appreciated.
                    During the day Monty devoted himself to his guests, and at the first sign of pensiveness he was
                        ready with a jest or a story. But he  did it all with a tact that
                        inspired the crowd as a whole with hope, and no one suspected that he himself was not cheerful.
                        For Peggy Gray there was a special tenderness, and he made up his mind that if things should go
                        wrong he would tell her that he loved her.
                    "It could do no harm," he thought to himself, "and I want her to
                        know."
                    Toward night the worst was over. The sea had gone down and the hatches were opened for a while to
                        admit air, though it was still too rough to venture out. The next morning was bright and clear.
                        When the company gathered on deck the havoc created by the storm was apparent. Two of the boats
                        had been completely carried away and the launch was rendered useless by a large hole in the
                        stern.
                    "You don't mean to say that we will drift about until the repairs can be
                        made?" asked Mrs. Dan in alarm.
                    "We are three hundred miles off the course already," explained Monty,
                        "and it will be pretty slow traveling under sail."
                    It was decided to make for the Canary Islands, where repairs could be made and the voyage
                        resumed. But where the wind had raged a few days before, it had now disappeared altogether, and
                        for a week the "Flitter"  tossed about
                        absolutely unable to make headway. The first of August had arrived and Monty himself was
                        beginning to be nervous. With the fatal day not quite two months away, things began to look
                        serious. Over one hundred thousand dollars would remain after he had settled the expenses of the
                        cruise, and he was helplessly drifting in mid-ocean. Even if the necessary repairs could be made
                        promptly, it would take the "Flitter" fourteen days to sail from the Canaries
                        to New York. Figure as hard as he could he saw no way out of the unfortunate situation. Two days
                        more elapsed and still no sign of a breeze. He made sure that September 23d would find him still
                        drifting and still in possession of one hundred thousand superfluous dollars.
                    At the end of ten days the yacht had progressed but two hundred miles and Monty was beginning to
                        plan the rest of his existence on a capital of $100,000. He had given up all hope of the
                        Sedgwick legacy and was trying to be resigned to his fate, when a tramp steamer was suddenly
                        sighted. Brewster ordered the man on watch to fly a flag of distress. Then he reported to the
                        captain and told what he had done. With a bound the captain rushed on deck and tore the flag
                        from the sailor's hand.
                    
                    "That was my order," said Monty, nettled at the captain's manner.
                    "You want them to get a line on us and claim salvage, do you?"
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "If they get a line on us in response to that flag they will claim the entire value of
                        the ship as salvage. You want to spend another $200,000 on this boat?"
                    "I didn't understand," said Monty, sheepishly. "But for
                        God's sake, fix it up somehow. Can't they tow us? I'll pay for
                        it."
                    Communication was slow, but after an apparently endless amount of signaling, the captain finally
                        announced that the freight steamer was bound for Southampton and would tow the
                        "Flitter" to that point for a price.
                    "Back to Southampton!" groaned Monty. "That means months before we get
                        back to New York."
                    "He says he can get us to Southampton in ten days," interrupted the captain.
                    "I can do it, I can do it," he cried, to the consternation of his guests who
                        wondered if his mind were affected. "If he'll land us in Southampton by the
                        27th, I'll pay him up to one hundred thousand dollars."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX
                    THE PRODIGAL'S RETURN
                    After what seemed an age to Monty, the "Flitter," in tow of the freighter
                        "Glencoe," arrived at Southampton. The captain of the freight boat was a
                        thrifty Scotchman whose ship was traveling with a light cargo and he was not, therefore, averse
                        to taking on a tow. But the thought of salvage had caused him to ask a high price for the
                        service and Monty, after a futile attempt at bargaining, had agreed. The price was fifty
                        thousand dollars, and the young man believed more than ever that everything was ruled by a wise
                        Providence, which had not deserted him. His guests were heartsick when they heard the figure,
                        but were as happy as Monty at the prospect of reaching land again.
                    The "Glencoe" made several stops before Southampton was finally reached on the
                        28th of August, but when the English coast was sighted everyone was too eager to go ashore to
                        begrudge the extra day. Dan DeMille asked the entire party to become his guests  for a week's shooting trip in Scotland, but Monty vetoed
                        the plan in the most decided manner.
                    "We sail for New York on the fastest boat," said Monty, and hurried off to
                        learn the sailings and book his party. The first boat was to sail on the 30th and he could only
                        secure accommodations for twelve of his guests. The rest were obliged to follow a week later.
                        This was readily agreed to and Bragdon was left to see to the necessary repairs on the
                        "Flitter" and arrange for her homeward voyage. Monty gave Bragdon fifteen
                        thousand dollars for this purpose and extracted a solemn promise that the entire amount would be
                        used.
                    "But it won't cost half of this," protested Bragdon
                    "You will have to give these people a good time during the week andwellyou have promised
                        that I shall never see another penny of it. Some day you'll know why I do
                        this," and Monty felt easier when his friend agreed to abide by his wishes.
                    He discharged the "Flitter's" crew, with five months' pay and
                        the reward promised on the night of Peggy's rescue, which was productive of touching
                        emotions. Captain Perry and his officers never forgot the farewell of  the prodigal, nor could they hide the regret that marked their weather-beaten
                        faces.
                    Plans to dispose of his household goods and the balance of his cash in the short time that would
                        be left after he arrived in New York occupied Monty's attention, and most men would
                        have given up the scheme as hopeless. But he did not despair. He was still game, and he prepared
                        for the final plunge with grim determination.
                    "There should have been a clause in Jones's conditions about 'weather
                        permitting,'" he said to himself. "A shipwrecked mariner should not
                        be expected to spend a million dollars."
                    The division of the party for the two sailings was tactfully arranged by Mrs. DeMille. The
                        Valentines chaperoned the "second table" as "Subway" Smith
                        called those who were to take the later boat, and she herself looked after the first lot. Peggy
                        Gray and Monty Brewster were in the DeMille party. The three days in England were marked by
                        unparalleled extravagance on Monty's part. One of the local hotels was subsidized for a
                        week, although the party only stayed for luncheon, and the Cecil in London was a gainer by
                        several thousand dollars for the brief stop there. It was a 
                        careworn little band that took Monty's special train for Southampton and embarked two
                        days later. The "rest cure" that followed was welcome to all of them and
                        Brewster was especially glad that his race was almost run.
                    Swiftly and steadily the liner cut down the leagues that separated her from New York. Fair
                        weather and fair cheer marked her course, and the soft, balmy nights were like seasons of
                        fairyland. Monty was cherishing in his heart the hope inspired by Peggy's action on the
                        night of the storm. Somehow it brought a small ray of light to his clouded understanding and he
                        found joy in keeping the flame alive religiously if somewhat doubtfully. His eyes followed her
                        constantly, searching for the encouragement that the very blindness of love had hidden from him,
                        forever tormenting himself with fears and hopes and fears again. Her happiness and vivacity
                        puzzled himhe was often annoyed, he was now and then seriously mystified.
                    Four days out from New York, then three days, then two days, and then Brewster began to feel the
                        beginning of the final whirlwind in profligacy clouding him oppressively, ominously, unkindly.
                        Down in his state room he  drew new estimates, new calculations,
                        and tried to balance the old ones so that they appeared in the light most favorable to his
                        designs. Going over the statistics carefully, he estimated that the cruise, including the
                        repairs and the return of the yacht to New York, would cost him $210,000 in round figures. One
                        hundred and thirty-three days marked the length of the voyage when reckoned by time and, as near
                        as he could get at it, the expense had averaged $1,580 a day. According to the contract, he was
                        to pay for the yacht, exclusive of the cuisine and personal service. And he had found it simple
                        enough to spend the remaining $1,080. There were days, of course, when fully $5,000 disappeared,
                        and there were others on which he spent much less than $1,000, but the average was secure.
                        Taking everything into consideration, Brewster found that his fortune had dwindled to a few
                        paltry thousands in addition to the proceeds which would come to him from the sale of his
                        furniture. On the whole he was satisfied.
                    The landing in New York and the separation which followed were not entirely merry. Every
                        discomfort was forgotten and the travelers only knew that the most wonderful cruise since that
                        of the ark had come to an end. There was not  one who would not
                        have been glad to begin it again the next day.
                    Immediately after the landing Brewster and Gardner were busy with the details of settlement.
                        After clearing up all of the obligations arising from the cruise, they felt the appropriateness
                        of a season of reflection. It was a difficult momenta moment when undelivered reproofs were in
                        the air. But Gardner seemed much the more melancholy of the two.
                    Piles of newspapers lay scattered about the floor of the room in which they sat. Every one of
                        them contained sensational stories of the prodigal's trip, with pictures, incidents and
                        predictions. Monty was pained, humiliated and resentful, but he was honest enough to admit the
                        justification of much that was said of him. He read bits of it here and there and then threw the
                        papers aside hopelessly. In a few weeks they would tell another story, and quite as
                        emphatically.
                    "The worst of it, Monty, is that you are the next thing to being a poor man,"
                        groaned Gardner. "I've done my best to economize for you here at home, as
                        you'll see by these figures, but nothing could possibly balance the extravagances of
                        this voyage. They are simply appalling."
                    
                    With the condemnation of his friends ringing in his troubled brain, with the sneers of
                        acquaintances to distress his pride, with the jibes of the comic papers to torture him
                        remorselessly, Brewster was fast becoming the most miserable man in New York. Friends of former
                        days gave him the cut direct, clubmen ignored him or scorned him openly, women chilled him with
                        the iciness of unspoken reproof, and all the world was hung with shadows. The doggedness of
                        despair kept him up, but the strain that pulled down on him was so relentless that the struggle
                        was losing its equality. He had not expected such a home-coming.
                    Compared with his former self, Monty was now almost a physical wreck, haggard, thin and defiant,
                        a shadow of the once debonair young New Yorker, an object of pity and scorn. Ashamed and
                        despairing, he had almost lacked the courage to face Mrs. Gray. The consolation he once gained
                        through her he now denied himself and his suffering, peculiar as it was, was very real. In
                        absolute recklessness he gave dinner after dinner, party after party, all on a most lavish
                        scale, many of his guests laughing at him openly while they enjoyed his hospitality. The real
                        friends remonstrated, pleaded, did everything within their power to  check his awful rush to poverty, but without success; he was not to be stopped.
                    At last the furniture began to go, then the plate, then all the priceless bric--brac. Piece by
                        piece it disappeared until the apartments were empty and he had squandered almost all of the
                        $40,350 arising from the sales. The servants were paid off, the apartments relinquished, and he
                        was beginning to know what it meant to be "on his uppers." At the banks he
                        ascertained that the interest on his moneys amounted to $19,140.86. A week before the 23d of
                        September, the whole million was gone, including the amounts won in Lumber and Fuel and other
                        luckless enterprises. He still had about $17,000 of his interest money in the banks, but he had
                        a billion pangs in his heartthe interest on his improvidence.
                    He found some delight in the discovery that the servants had robbed him of not less than $3,500
                        worth of his belongings, including the Christmas presents that he in honor could not have sold.
                        His only encouragement came from Grant and Ripley, the lawyers. They inspired confidence in his
                        lagging brain by urging him on to the end, promising brightness thereafter. Swearengen Jones was
                        as mute as the mountains in which he lived. There was  no word
                        from him, there was no assurance that he would approve of what had been done to obliterate Edwin
                        Peter Brewster's legacy.
                    Dan DeMille and his wife implored Monty to come with them to the mountains before his substance
                        was gone completely. The former offered him money, employment, rest and security if he would
                        abandon the course he was pursuing. Up in Fortieth Street Peggy Gray was grieving her heart out
                        and he knew it. Two or three of those whom he had considered friends refused to recognize him in
                        the street in this last trying week, and it did not even interest him to learn that Miss Barbara
                        Drew was to become a duchess before the winter was gone. Yet he found some satisfaction in the
                        report that one Hampton of Chicago had long since been dropped out of the race.
                    One day he implored the faithful Bragdon to steal the Boston terriers. He could not and would not
                        sell them and he dared not give them away. Bragdon dejectedly appropriated the dogs and Brewster
                        announced that some day he would offer a reward for their return and "no questions
                        asked."
                    He took a suite of rooms in a small hotel and was feverishly planning the overthrow of the last
                        torturing thousands. Bragdon lived  with him and the
                        "Little Sons of the Rich" stood loyally ready to help him when he uttered the
                        first cry of want But even this establishment had to be abandoned at last. The old rooms in
                        Fortieth Street were still open to him and though he quailed at the thought of making them a
                        refuge, he faced the ordeal in the spirit of a martyr.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX
                    THE PROMISE OF THRIFT
                    "Monty, you are breaking my heart," was the first and only appeal Mrs. Gray
                        ever made to him. It was two days before the twenty-third and it did not come until after the
                        "second-hand store" men had driven away from her door with the bulk of his
                        clothing in their wagon. She and Peggy had seen little of Brewster, and his nervous restlessness
                        alarmed them His return was the talk of the town. Men tried to shun him, but he persistently
                        wasted some portion of his fortune on his unwilling subjects. When he gave $5,000 in cash to a
                        Home for Newsboys, even his friends jumped to the conclusion that he was mad. It was his only
                        gift to charity and he excused his motive in giving at this time by recalling
                        Sedgwick's injunction to "give sparingly to charity." Everything was
                        gone from his thoughts but the overpowering eagerness to get rid of a few troublesome thousands.
                        He felt like an outcast, a pariah, a hated object that infected everyone with whom he came in
                        contact. Sleep was almost impossible, eating  was a farce; he gave
                        elaborate suppers which he did not touch. Already his best friends were discussing the
                        advisability of putting him in a sanitarium where his mind might be preserved. His case was
                        looked upon as peculiar in the history of mankind; no writer could find a parallel, no one could
                        imagine a comparison.
                    Mrs. Gray met him in the hallway of her home as he was nervously pocketing the $60 he had
                        received in payment for his clothes. Her face was like that of a ghost. He tried to answer her
                        reproof, but the words would not come, and he fled to his room, locking the door after him. He
                        was at work there on the transaction that was to record the total disappearance of Edwin
                        Brewster's millionhis final report to Swearengen Jones, executor of James
                        Sedgwick's will. On the floor were bundles of packages, carefully wrapped and tied, and
                        on the table was the long sheet of white paper on which the report was being drawn. The packages
                        contained receiptsthousands upon thousands of themfor the dollars he had spent in less than a
                        year. They were there for the inspection of Swearengen Jones, faithfully and honorably keptas if
                        the old westerner would go over in detail the countless documents.
                    
                    He had the accounts balanced up to the hour. On the long sheet lay the record of his
                        ruthlessness, the epitaph of a million. In his pocket was exactly $79.08. This was to last him
                        for less than forty-eight hours andthen it would go to join the rest. It was his plan to visit
                        Grant & Ripley on the afternoon of the twenty-second and to read the report to them, in
                        anticipation of the meeting with Jones on the day following.
                    Just before noon, after his encounter with Mrs. Gray, he came down stairs and boldly, for the
                        first time in days, sought out Peggy. There was the old smile in his eyes and the old heartiness
                        in his voice when he came upon her in the library. She was not reading. Books, pleasures and all
                        the joys of life had fled from her mind and she thought only of the disaster that was coming to
                        the boy she had always loved. His heart smote him as he looked into the deep, somber, frightened
                        eyes, running over with love and fear for him.
                    "Peggy, do you think I'm worth anything more from your mother? Do you think she
                        will ask me to live here any longer?" he asked, steadily, taking her hand in his. Hers
                        was cold, his as hot as fire. "You know what you said away off yonder somewhere, that
                        she'd  let me live here if I deserved it. I am a pauper,
                        Peggy, and I'm afraid I'llI may have to get down to drudgery again. Will she
                        turn me out? You know I must have somewhere to live. Shall it be the poorhouse? Do you remember
                        saying one day that I'd end in the poorhouse?"
                    She was looking into his eyes, dreading what might be seen in them. But there was no gleam of
                        insanity there, there was no fever; instead there was the quiet smile of the man who is
                        satisfied with himself and the world. His voice bore traces of emotion, but it was the voice of
                        one who has perfect control of his wits.
                    "Is it allgone, Monty?" she asked, almost in a whisper.
                    "Here is the residue of my estate," he said, opening his purse with steady
                        fingers. "I'm back to where I left off a year ago. The million is gone and my
                        wings are clipped." Her face was white, her heart was in the clutch of ice. How could
                        he be so calm about it when for him she was suffering such agony? Twice she started to speak,
                        but her voice failed her. She turned slowly and walked to the window, keeping her back to the
                        man who smiled so sadly and yet so heartlessly.
                    
                    "I didn't want the million, Peggy," he went on. "You think as
                        the rest do, I know, that I was a fool to act as I did. It would be rank idiocy on my part to
                        blame you any more than the others for thinking as you do. Appearances are against me, the proof
                        is overwhelming A year ago I was called a man, to-day they are stripping me of every claim to
                        that distinction. The world says I am a fool, a dolt, almost a criminalbut no one believes I am
                        a man. Peggy, will you feel better toward me if I tell you that I am going to begin life all
                        over again? It will be a new Monty Brewster that starts out again in a few days, or, if you
                        will, it shall be the old onethe Monty you once knew."
                    "The old Monty?" she murmured softly, dreamily. "It would be good to
                        see himso much better than to see the Monty of the last year."
                    "And, in spite of all I have done, Peggy, you will stand by me? You won't
                        desert me like the rest? You'll be the same Peggy of the other days?" he
                        cried, his calmness breaking down.
                    "How can you ask? Why should you doubt me?"
                    For a moment they stood silent, each looking  into the heart of the
                        other, each seeing the beginning of a new day.
                    "Child," his voice trembled dangerously, "II wonder if you care enough
                        for me toto" but he could only look the question.
                    "To start all over again with you?" she whispered.
                    "Yesto trust yourself to the prodigal who has returned. Without you, child, all the rest
                        would be as the husks. Peggy, I want youyou! You do love meI can see it in
                        your eyes, I can feel it in your presence."
                    "How long you have been in realizing it," she said pensively as she stretched
                        out her arms to him. For many minutes he held her close, finding a beautiful peace in the world
                        again.
                    "How long have you really cared?" he asked in a whisper.
                    "Always, Monty; all my life."
                    "And I too, child, all my life. I know it now; I've known it for months. Oh,
                        what a fool I was to have wasted all this love of yours and all this love of mine. But
                        I'll not be a profligate in love, Peggy. I'll not squander an atom of it,
                        dear, not as long as I live."
                    "And we will build a greater love, Monty, as we build the new life together. We never
                        can be poor while we have love as a treasure."
                    
                    "You won't mind being poor with me?" he asked.
                    "I can't be poor with you," she said simply.
                    "And I might have let all this escape me," he cried fervently.
                        "Listen, Peggywe will start together, you as my wife and my fortune. You shall be all
                        that is left to me of the past. Will you marry me the day after to-morrow? Don't say
                        no, dearest. I want to begin on that day. At seven in the morning, dear? Don't you see
                        how good the start will be?"
                    And he pleaded so ardently and so earnestly that he won his point even though it grew out of a
                        whim that she could not then understand. She was not to learn until afterward his object in
                        having the marriage take place on the morning of September 23d, two hours before the time set
                        for the turning over of the Sedgwick millions. If all went well they would be
                        Brewster's millions before twelve o'clock, and Peggy's life of
                        poverty would cover no more than three hours of time. She believed him wo***rth a lifetime of
                        poverty. So they would start the new life with but one possessionlove.
                    Peggy rebelled against his desire to spend the seventy dollars that still remained, but he was
                        firm in his determination. They would dine and drive together and see all of the old life that
                        was  lefton seventy dollars. Then on the next day they would start
                        all over again. There was one rude moment of dismay when it occurred to him that Peggy might be
                        considered an "asset" if she became his wife before nine o'clock. But
                        he realized at once that it was only demanded of him that he be penniless and that he possess no
                        object that had been acquired through the medium of Edwin Peter Brewster's money.
                        Surely this wife who was not to come to him until his last dollar was gone could not be the
                        product of an old man's legacy. But so careful was he in regard to the transaction that
                        he decided to borrow money of Joe Bragdon to buy the license and to pay the minister's
                        fee. Not only would he be penniless on the day of settlement, but he would be in debt. So
                        changed was the color of the world to him now that even the failure to win Sedgwick's
                        millions could not crush out the new life and the new joy that had come to him with the winning
                        of Peggy Gray.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI
                    HOW THE MILLION DISAPPEARED
                    Soon after noon on the 22d of September, Monty folded his report to Swearengen Jones, stuck it
                        into his pocket and sallied forth. A parcel delivery wagon had carried off a mysterious bundle a
                        few minutes before. Mrs. Gray could not conceal her wonder but Brewster's answers to
                        her questions threw little light on the mystery. He could not tell her the big bundle contained
                        the receipts that were to prove his sincerity when the time came to settle with Mr. Jones.
                        Brewster had used his own form of receipt for every purchase. The little stub receipt books had
                        been made to order for him and not only he but every person in his employ carried one
                        everywhere. No matter how trivial the purchase, the person who received a dollar of
                        Brewster's money signed a receipt for the amount. Newsboys and bootblacks were the only
                        beings who escaped the formality; tips to waiters, porters, cabbies, etc., were recorded and
                        afterward put into a class by themselves. Receipts for the  few
                        dollars remaining in his possession were to be turned over on the morning of the 23d and the
                        general report was not to be completed until 9 o'clock on that day.
                    He kissed Peggy good-bye, told her to be ready for a drive at 4 o'clock, and then went
                        off to find Joe Bragdon and Elon Gardner. They met him by appointment and to them he confided
                        his design to be married on the following day.
                    "You can't afford it, Monty," exploded Joe, fearlessly.
                        "Peggy is too good a girl. By gad, it isn't fair to her."
                    "We have agreed to begin life to-morrow. Wait and see the result. I think it will
                        surprise you. Incidentally it is up to me to get the license to-day and to engage a
                        minister's services. It's going to be quiet, you know. Joe, you can be my best
                        man if you like and, Gardie, I'll expect you to sign your name as one of the witnesses.
                        To-morrow evening we'll have supper at Mrs. Gray's and 'among those
                        present' will not comprise a very large list, I assure you. But we'll talk
                        about that later on. Just now I want to ask you fellows to lend me enough money to get the
                        license and pay the preacher. I'll return it to-morrow afternoon."
                    "Well, I'm damned," exclaimed Gardner, 
                        utterly dumbfounded by the nerve of the man. But they went with him to get the license and
                        Bragdon paid for it. Gardner promised to have the minister at the Gray house the next morning.
                        Monty's other requestmade in deep seriousnesswas that Peggy was not to be told of the
                        little transaction in which the license and the minister figured so prominently. He then hurried
                        off to the office of Grant & Ripley. The bundles of receipts had preceded him.
                    "Has Jones arrived in town?" was his first anxious question after the
                        greetings.
                    "He is not registered at any of the hotels," responded Mr. Grant, and Brewster
                        did not see the troubled look that passed over his face.
                    "He'll show up to-night, I presume," said he, complacently. The
                        lawyers did not tell him that all the telegrams they had sent to Swearengen Jones in the past
                        two weeks had been returned to the New York office as unclaimed in Butte. The telegraph company
                        reported that Mr. Jones was not to be found and that he had not been seen in Butte since the 3d
                        of September. The lawyers were hourly expecting word from Montana men to whom they had
                        telegraphed for information and  advice. They were extremely
                        nervous, but Montgomery Brewster was too eager and excited to notice the fact.
                    "A tall, bearded stranger was here this morning asking for you, Mr. Brewster,"
                        said Ripley, his head bent over some papers on his desk.
                    "Ah! Jones, I'm sure. I've always imagined him with a long
                        beard," said Monty, relief in his voice.
                    "It was not Mr. Jones. We know Jones quite well. This man was a stranger and refused to
                        give his name. He said he would call at Mrs. Gray's this afternoon."
                    "Did he look like a constable or a bill-collector?" asked Monty, with a laugh.
                    "He looked very much like a tramp."
                    "Well, we'll forget him for the time being," said Monty, drawing the
                        report from his pocket.
                    "Would you mind looking over this report, gentlemen? I'd like to know if it is
                        in proper form to present to Mr. Jones."
                    Grant's hand trembled as he took the carefully folded sheet from Brewster. A quick
                        glance of despair passed between the two lawyers.
                    "Of course, you'll understand that this report is merely a synopsis of the
                        expenditures.  They are classified, however, and the receipts over
                        there are arranged in such a way that Mr. Jones can very easily verify all the figures set out
                        in the report. For instance, where it says 'cigars,' I have put down the total
                        amount that went up in smoke. The receipts are to serve as an itemized statement, you
                        know." Mr. Ripley took the paper from his partner's hand and, pulling himself
                        together, read the report aloud. It was as follows:
                    New York, Sept. 23, 19.
                    TO SWEARENGEN JONES, ESQ.
                    Executor under the will of the late James T. Sedgwick of Montana:
                    In pursuance of the terms of the aforesaid will and in accord with the instructions set forth by
                        yourself as executor, I present my report of receipts and disbursements for the year in my life
                        ending at midnight on Sept. 22. The accuracy of the figures set forth in this general statement
                        may be established by referring to the receipts, which form a part of this report. There is not
                        one penny of Edwin Peter Brewster's money in my possession, and I have no asset to mark
                        its burial place. These figures are submitted for your most careful consideration.
                    
                    
                        
                            ORIGINAL CAPITAL
                            $1,000,000.00
                        
                        
                            "Lumber and Fuel" misfortune
                            58,550.00
                        
                        
                            Prize-fight misjudged
                            1,000.00
                        
                        
                            Monte Carlo education
                            40,000.00
                        
                        
                            Race track errors
                            700.00
                        
                        
                            Sale of six terrier pups Sale of furniture and personal
                                effects
                            40,500.00
                        
                        
                            Interest on funds once in hand
                            19,140.00
                        
                        
                            Total amount to be disposed of
                            $1,160,040.00
                        
                        
                            DISBURSEMENTS
                        
                        
                            Rent for apartments
                            $23,000.00
                        
                        
                            Furnishing apartments
                            88,372.00
                        
                        
                            Three automobiles
                            21,000.00
                        
                        
                            Renting six automobiles
                            25,000.00
                        
                        
                            Amount lost to DeMille
                            1,000.00
                        
                        
                            Salaries
                            25,650.00
                        
                        
                            Amount paid to men injured in auto accident
                            12,240.00
                        
                        
                            Amount lost in bank failure
                            113,468.25
                        
                        
                            Amount lost on races
                            4,000.00
                        
                        
                            One glass screen
                            3,000.00
                        
                        
                            Christmas presents
                            7,211.00
                        
                        
                            Postage
                            1,105.00
                        
                        
                            Cable and telegraph
                            3,253.00
                        
                        
                            Stationery
                            2,400.00
                        
                        
                            Two Boston terriers
                            600.00
                        
                        
                            Amount lost to "hold-up men"
                            450.00
                        
                        
                            Amount lost on concert tour
                            56,382.00
                        
                        
                            Amount lost through O. Harrison's speculation
                                (on my account)
                            60,000.00
                        
                        
                            One ball (in two sections)
                            60,000.00
                        
                        
                            Extra favors
                            6,000.00
                        
                        
                            One yacht cruise
                            212,309.50
                        
                        
                            One carnival
                            6,824.00
                        
                        
                            Cigars
                            1,720.00
                        
                        
                            Drinks, chiefly for others
                            9,040.00
                        
                        
                            Clothing
                            3,400.00
                        
                        
                        
                            Rent of one villa
                            20,000.00
                        
                        
                            One courier
                            500.00
                        
                        
                            Dinner parties
                            117,900.00
                        
                        
                            Suppers and luncheons
                            38,000.00
                        
                        
                            Theater parties and suppers
                            6,277.00
                        
                        
                            Hotel expenses
                            61,218.59
                        
                        
                            Railway and steamship fares
                            31,274.81
                        
                        
                            For Newsboys' Home
                            5,000.00
                        
                        
                            Two opera performances
                            20,000.00
                        
                        
                            Repairs to "Flitter"
                            6,342.60
                        
                        
                            In tow from somewhere to Southampton
                            50,000.00
                        
                        
                            Special train to Florida
                            1,000.00
                        
                        
                            Cottage in Florida
                            5,500.00
                        
                        
                            Medical attendance
                            3,100.00
                        
                        
                            Living expenses in Florida
                            8,900.00
                        
                        
                            Misappropriation of personal property by servants
                            3,580.00
                        
                        
                            Taxes on personal property
                            112.25
                        
                        
                            Sundries
                            9,105.00
                        
                        
                            Household expenses
                            24,805.00
                        
                        
                            Total disbursements
                            $1,160,040.00
                        
                        
                            BALANCE ON HAND
                            $0,000,000.00
                        
                    
                    Respectfully submitted, MONTGOMERY BREWSTER.
                    "It's rather broad, you see, gentlemen, but there are receipts for every
                        dollar, barring some trifling incidentals. He may think I dissipated the fortune, but I defy him
                        or anyone else to prove that I have not had my money's worth. To tell you the truth, it
                        has seemed like a hundred million. If anyone should tell you that it is an easy matter to waste
                        a million dollars, refer him to me. Last fall I weighed 180 pounds, yesterday I barely  moved the beam at 140; last fall there was not a wrinkle in my
                        face, nor did I have a white hair. You see the result of overwork, gentlemen. It will take an
                        age to get back to where I was physically, but I think I can do it with the vacation that begins
                        to-morrow. Incidentally, I'm going to be married to-morrow morning, just when I am
                        poorer than I ever expect to be again. I still have a few dollars to spend and I must be about
                        it. To-morrow I will account for what I spend this evening. It is now covered by the
                        'sundries' item, but I'll have the receipts to show, all right. See
                        you to-morrow morning."
                    He was gone, eager to be with Peggy, afraid to discuss his report with the lawyers. Grant and
                        Ripley shook their heads and sat silent for a long time after his departure.
                    "We ought to hear something definite before night," said Grant, but there was
                        anxiety in his voice.
                    "I wonder," mused Ripley, as if to himself, "how he will take it if
                        the worst should happen."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII
                    THE NIGHT BEFORE
                    "It's all up to Jones now," kept running through Brewster's
                        brain as he drove off to keep his appointment with Peggy Gray. "The million is goneall
                        gone. I'm as poor as Job's turkey. It's up to Jones, but I
                        don't see how he can decide against me. He insisted on making a pauper of me and he can
                        t have the heart to throw me down now. But, what if he should take it into his head to be ugly!
                        I wonder if I could break the willI wonder if I could beat him out in court."
                    Peggy was waiting for him. Her cheeks were flushed as with a fever. She had caught from him the
                        mad excitement of the occasion.
                    "Come, Peggy," he exclaimed, eagerly. "This is our last
                        holidaylet's be merry. We can forget it to-morrow, if you like, when we begin all over
                        again, but maybe it will be worth remembering." He assisted her to the seat and then
                        leaped up beside her. "We're off!" he cried, his voice quivering.
                    "It is absolute madness, dear," she said,  but
                        her eyes were sparkling with the joy of recklessness. Away went the trap and the two light
                        hearts. Mrs. Gray turned from a window in the house with tears in her eyes. To her troubled mind
                        they were driving off into utter darkness.
                    "The queerest looking man came to the house to see you this afternoon, Monty,"
                        said Peggy. "He wore a beard and he made me think of one of Remington's
                        cowboys."
                    "What was his name?"
                    "He told the maid it did not matter. I saw him as he walked away and he looked very much
                        a man. He said he would come to-morrow if he did not find you down town to-night. Don't
                        you recognize him from the description?"
                    "Not at all. Can't imagine who he is."
                    "Monty," she said, after a moment's painful reflection, "hehe
                        couldn't have been a"
                    "I know what you mean. An officer sent up to attach my belongings or something of the
                        sort. No, dearest; I give you my word of honor I do not owe a dollar in the world."
                        Then he recalled his peculiar indebtedness to Bragdon and Gardner. "Except one or two
                        very small personal obligations," he added, hastily. "Don't worry
                        about it, dear, we are  out for a good time and we must make the
                        most of it. First, we drive through the Park, then we dine at Sherry's."
                    "But we must dress for that, dear," she cried. "And the
                        chaperon?"
                    He turned very red when she spoke of dressing. "I'm ashamed to confess it,
                        Peggy, but I have no other clothes than these I'm wearing now. Don't look so
                        hurt, dearI'm going to leave an order for new evening clothes to-morrowif I have the
                        time. And about the chaperon. People won't be talking before to-morrow and by that
                        time"
                    "No, Monty, Sherry's is out of the question. We can't go
                        there," she said, decisively.
                    "Oh, Peggy! That spoils everything," he cried, in deep disappointment.
                    "It isn't fair to me, Monty. Everybody would know us and every tongue would
                        wag. They would say, 'There are Monty Brewster and Margaret Gray. Spending his last few
                        dollars on her.' You wouldn't have them think that?"
                    He saw the justice in her protest. "A quiet little dinner in some out of the way place
                        would be joyous," she added, persuasively.
                    "You're right, Peggy, you're always right. You see, I'm so
                        used to spending money by  the handful that I don't know
                        how to do it any other way. I believe I'll let you carry the pocketbook after
                        to-morrow. Let me think; I know a nice little restaurant down town. We'll go there and
                        then to the theater. Dan DeMille and his wife are to be in my box and we're all going
                        up to Pettingill's studio afterward. I'm to give the 'Little
                        Sons' a farewell supper. If my calculations don't go wrong, that will be the
                        end of the jaunt and we'll go home happy."
                    At eleven o'clock Pettingill's studio opened its doors to the "Little
                        Sons" and their guests, and the last "Dutch lunch" was soon under
                        way. Brewster had paid for it early in the evening and when he sat down at the head of the table
                        there was not a penny in his pockets. A year ago, at the same place and at the same hour, he and
                        the "Little Sons" were having a birthday feast. A million dollars came to him
                        on that night. To-night he was poorer by far than on the other occasion, but he expected a
                        little gift on the new anniversary.
                    Around the board, besides the nine "Little Sons," sat six guests, among them
                        the DeMilles, Peggy Gray and Mary Valentine. "Nopper" Harrison was the only
                        absent "Little Son" and his health was proposed by Brewster almost  before the echoes of the toast to the bride and groom died away.
                    Interruption came earlier on this occasion than it did that night a year ago. Ellis did not
                        deliver his messages to Brewster until three o'clock in the morning, but the A.D.T. boy
                        who rang the bell at Pettingill's a year later handed him a telegram before twelve
                        o'clock.
                    "Congratulations are coming in, old man," said DeMille, as Monty looked
                        fearfully at the little envelope the boy had given him.
                    "Many happy returns of the day," suggested Bragdon. "By Jove,
                        it's sensible of you to get married on your birthday, Monty. It saves time and expense
                        to your friends."
                    "Read it aloud," said "Subway" Smith.
                    "Two to one it's from Nopper Harrison," cried Pettingill.
                    Brewster's fingers trembled, he knew not why, as he opened the envelope. There was the
                        most desolate feeling in his heart, the most ghastly premonition that ill-news had come in this
                        last hour. He drew forth the telegram and slowly painfully unfolded it. No one could have told
                        by his expression that he felt almost that he was reading his death warrant. It was from Grant
                        & Ripley and evidently had been following him about town for two or three  hours. The lawyers had filed it at 8:30 o'clock.
                    He read it at a glance, his eyes burning, his heart freezing. To the end of his days these words
                        lived sharp and distinct in his brain.
                    "Come to the office immediately. Will wait all night for you if necessary. Jones has
                        disappeared and there is absolutely no trace of him.
                    Grant & Ripley."
                    Brewster sat as one paralyzed, absolutely no sign of emotion in his face. The others began to
                        clamor for the contents of the telegram, but his tongue was stiff and motionless, his ears deaf.
                        Every drop of blood in his body was stilled by the shock, every sense given him by the Creator
                        was centered upon eleven words in the handwriting of a careless telegraph
                        operator"Jones has disappeared and there is absolutely no trace of him."
                    "JONES HAS DISAPPEARED!" Those were the words, plain and terrible in their
                        clearness, tremendous in their brutality. Slowly the rest of the message began to urge its
                        claims upon his brain. "Come to our office immediately" and "Will
                        wait all night" battled for recognition. He was calm because he had not the power to
                        express an emotion. How he  maintained control of himself
                        afterward he never knew. Some powerful, kindly force asserted itself, coming to his relief with
                        the timeliness of a genii. Gradually it began to dawn upon him that the others were waiting for
                        him to read the message aloud. He was not sure that a sound would come forth when he opened his
                        lips to speak, but the tones were steady, natural and as cold as steel.
                    "I am sorry I can't tell you about this," he said, so gravely that his
                        hearers were silenced. "It is a business matter of such vital importance that I must
                        ask you to excuse me for an hour or so. I will explain everything to-morrow. Please
                        don't be uneasy. If you will do me the honor to grace the board of an absent host,
                        I'll be most grateful. It is imperative that I go, and at once. I promise to return in
                        an hour." He was standing, his knees as stiff as iron.
                    "Is it anything serious?" asked DeMille.
                    "What! has anything happened?" came in halting, frightened tones from Peggy.
                    "It concerns me alone, and it is purely of a business nature. Seriously, I
                        can't delay going for another minute. It is vital. In an hour I'll return.
                        Peggy, don't be worrieddon't be distressed about me. Go on and have a  good time, everybody, and you'll find me the jolliest
                        fellow of all when I come back. It's twelve o'clock. I'll be here by
                        one on the 23d of September."
                    "Let me go with you," pleaded Peggy, tremulously, as she followed him into the
                        hallway.
                    "I must go alone," he answered. "Don't worry, little woman,
                        it will be all right."
                    His kiss sent a chill to the very bottom of Peggy's heart.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII
                    THE FLIGHT OF JONES
                    Everything seemed like a dream to Brewster as he rushed off through the night to the office of
                        Grant & Ripley. He was dazed, bewildered, hardly more than half-conscious. A bitter
                        smile crept about his lips as he drew away from the street-car track almost as his hand touched
                        the rail of a car he had signaled. He remembered that he did not have money enough to pay his
                        fare. It was six or seven blocks to the office of the lawyers, and he was actually running
                        before he stopped at the entrance of the big building.
                    Never had an elevator traveled more slowly than the one which shot him to the seventh floor. A
                        light shone through the transom above the attorneys' door and he entered without so
                        much as a rap on the panel. Grant, who was pacing the floor, came to a standstill and faced his
                        visitor.
                    "Close the door, please," came in steady tones from Ripley. Mr. Grant dropped
                        into a chair and Brewster mechanically slammed the door.
                    
                    "Is it true?" he demanded hoarsely, his hand still on the knob.
                    "Sit down, Brewster, and control yourself," said Ripley.
                    "Good God, man, can't you see I am calm?" cried Monty. "Go
                        ontell me all about it. What do you know? What have you heard?"
                    "He cannot be found, that's all," announced Ripley, with deadly
                        intentness. "I don't know what it means. There is no explanation. The whole
                        thing is inconceivable. Sit down and I will tell you everything as quickly as
                        possible."
                    "There isn't much to tell," said Grant, mechanically.
                    "I can take it better standing," declared Brewster, shutting his jaws tightly.
                    "Jones was last seen in Butte on the third of this month," said Ripley.
                        "We sent several telegrams to him after that day, asking when he expected to leave for
                        New York. They never were claimed and the telegraph company reported that he could not be found.
                        We thought he might have gone off to look after some of his property and were not uneasy.
                        Finally we began to wonder why he had not wired us on leaving for the east. I telegraphed again
                        and got no answer. It dawned  upon us that this was something
                        unusual. We wired his secretary and received a response from the chief of police. He asked, in
                        turn, if we could tell him anything about the whereabouts of Jones. This naturally alarmed us
                        and yesterday we kept the wires hot. The result of our inquiries is terrible, Mr.
                        Brewster."
                    "Why didn't you tell me?" asked Brewster.
                    "There can be no doubt that Jones has fled, accompanied by his secretary. The belief in
                        Butte is that the secretary has murdered him."
                    "God!" was the only sound that came from the lips of Brewster.
                    Ripley moistened his lips and went on.
                    "We have dispatches here from the police, the banks, the trust companies and from a half
                        dozen mine managers. You may read them if you like, but I can tell you what they say. About the
                        first of this month Jones began to turn various securities into money. It is now known that they
                        were once the property of James T. Sedgwick, held in trust for you. The safety deposit vaults
                        were afterward visited and inspection shows that he removed every scrap of stock, every bond,
                        everything of value that he could lay his hands upon. His own papers and effects were not
                        disturbed. Yours alone have disappeared. It is this fact that 
                        convinces the authorities that the secretary has made away with the old man and has fled with
                        the property. The bank people say that Jones drew out every dollar of the Sedgwick money, and
                        the police say that he realized tremendous sums on the convertible securities. The strange part
                        of it is that he sold your mines and your real estate, the purchaser being a man named Golden.
                        Brewster, itit looks very much as if he had disappeared with everything."
                    Brewster did not take his eyes from Ripley's face throughout the terrible speech; he did
                        not move a fraction of an inch from the rigid position assumed at the beginning.
                    "Is anything being done?" he asked, mechanically.
                    "The police are investigating. He is known to have started off into the mountains with
                        this secretary, on the third of September. Neither has been seen since that day, so far as
                        anyone knows. The earth seems to have swallowed them. The authorities are searching the
                        mountains and are making every effort to find Jones or his body. He is known to be eccentric and
                        at first not much importance was attached to his actions. That is all we can tell you at
                        present. There may be developments tomorrow.  It looks badterribly
                        bad. Wewe had the utmost confidence in Jones. My God, I wish I could help you, my boy."
                    "I don't blame you, gentlemen," said Brewster, bravely.
                        "It's just my luck, that's all. Something told me all along thatthat
                        it wouldn't turn out right. I wasn't looking for this kind of end, though. My
                        only fear was thatJones wouldn't consider me worthy to receive the fortune. It never
                        occurred to me that he might prove to be thethe unworthy one."
                    "I will take you a little farther into our confidence, Brewster," said Grant,
                        slowly. "Mr. Jones notified us in the beginning that he would be governed largely in
                        his decision by our opinion of your conduct. That is why we felt no hesitation in advising you
                        to continue as you were going. While you were off at sea, we had many letters from him, all in
                        that sarcastic vein of his, but in none of them did he offer a word of criticism. He seemed
                        thoroughly satisfied with your methods. In fact, he once said he'd give a million of
                        his own money if it would purchase your ability to spend one-fourth of it."
                    "Well, he can have my experience free of charge. A beggar can't be a chooser,
                        you  know," said Brewster, bitterly. His color was
                        gradually coming back. "What do they know about the secretary?" he asked,
                        suddenly, intent and alive.
                    "He was a new one, I understand, who came to Jones less than a year ago. Jones is said
                        to have had implicit faith in him," said Ripley.
                    "And he disappeared at the same time?"
                    "They were last seen together."
                    "Then, he has put an end to Jones!" cried Monty, excitedly. "It is as
                        plain as day to me. Don't you see that he exerted some sort of influence over the old
                        man, inducing him to get all this money together on some pretext or other, solely for the
                        purpose of robbing him of the whole amount? Was ever anything more diabolical?" He
                        began pacing the floor like an animal, nervously clasping and unclasping his hands. "We
                        must catch that secretary! I don't believe Jones was dishonest. He has been duped by a
                        clever scoundrel."
                    "The strangest circumstance of all, Mr. Brewster, is that no such person as Golden, the
                        purchaser of your properties, can be found. He is supposed to reside in Omaha, and it is known
                        that he paid nearly three million dollars for the property that now stands in his name. He paid
                        it to Mr. Jones in cash, too,  and he paid every cent that the
                        property is worth."
                    "But he must be in existence somewhere," cried Brewster, in perplexity.
                        "How the devil could he pay the money if he doesn't exist?"
                    "I only know that no trace of the man can be found. They know nothing of him in
                        Omaha," said Grant, helplessly.
                    "So it has finally happened," said Brewster, but his excitement had dropped.
                        "Well," he added, throwing himself into a deep chair, "it was always
                        much too strange to be true. Even at the beginning it seemed like a dream, and nowwell, now I am
                        just awake, like the little boy after the fairy-tale. I seem like a fool to have taken it so
                        seriously."
                    "There was no other way," protested Ripley, "you were quite
                        right."
                    "Well, after all," continued Brewster, and the voice was as of one in a dream,
                        "perhaps it's as well to have been in Wonderland even if you have to come down
                        afterward to the ordinary world. I am foolish, perhaps, but even now I would not give it
                        up." Then the thought of Peggy clutched him by the throat, and he stopped. After a
                        moment he gathered himself together and rose. "Gentlemen," he said sharply,
                        and his voice had changed; "I  have had my fun and this
                        is the end of it. Down underneath I am desperately tired of the whole thing, and I give you my
                        word that you will find me a different man to-morrow. I am going to buckle down to the real
                        thing. I am going to prove that my grandfather's blood is in me. And I shall come out
                        on top."
                    Ripley was obviously moved as he replied, "I don't question it for a moment.
                        You are made of the right stuff. I saw that long ago. You may count on us to-morrow for any
                        amount you need."
                    Grant endorsed the opinion. "I like your spirit. Brewster," he said.
                        "There are not many men who would have taken this as well. It's pretty hard on
                        you, too, and it's a miserable wedding gift for your bride."
                    "We may have important news from Butte in the morning," said Ripley, hopefully;
                        "at any rate, more of the details. The newspapers will have sensational stories no
                        doubt, and we have asked for the latest particulars direct from the authorities. We'll
                        see that things are properly investigated. Go home now, my boy, and go to bed. You will begin
                        to-morrow with good luck at your side and you may be happy all your life in spite of
                        to-night's depression."
                    "I'm sure to be happy," said Brewster, 
                        simply. "The ceremony takes place at seven o'clock, gentlemen. I was coming to
                        your office at nine on a little matter of business, but I fancy it won't after all be
                        necessary for me to hurry. I'll drop in before noon, however, and get that money. By
                        the way, here are the receipts for the money I spent to-night. Will you put them away with the
                        others? I intend to live up to my part of the contract, and it will save me the trouble of
                        presenting them regularly in the morning. Good night, gentlemen. I am sorry you were obliged to
                        stay up so late on my account."
                    He left them bravely enough, but he had more than one moment of weakness before he could meet his
                        friends. The world seemed unreal and himself the most unreal thing in it. But the night air
                        acted as a stimulant and helped him to call back his courage. When he entered the studio at one
                        o'clock, he was prepared to redeem his promise to be "the jolliest fellow of
                        them all."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIV
                    THE LAST WORD
                    "I'll tell you about it later, dear," was all that Peggy, pleading,
                        could draw from him.
                    At midnight Mrs. Dan had remonstrated with her. "You must go home, Peggy dear,"
                        she said. "It is disgraceful for you to stay up so late. I went to bed at eight
                        o'clock the night before I was married."
                    "And fell asleep at four in the morning," smiled Peggy.
                    "You are quite mistaken, my dear. I did not fall asleep at all. But I won't
                        allow you to stop a minute longer. It puts rings under the eyes and sometimes they're
                        red the morning after."
                    "Oh, you dear sweet philosopher," cried Peggy; "how wise you are. Do
                        you think I need a beauty sleep?"
                    "I don't want you to be a sleepy beauty, that's all,"
                        retorted Mrs. Dan.
                    Upon Monty's return from his trying hour with the lawyers, he had been besieged with
                        questions, but he was cleverly evasive. Peggy  alone was
                        insistent; she had curbed her curiosity until they were on the way home, and then she implored
                        him to tell her what had happened. The misery he had endured was as nothing to this reckoning
                        with the woman who had the right to expect fair treatment. His duty was clear, but the strain
                        had been heavy and it was not easy to meet it.
                    "Peggy, something terrible has happened," he faltered, uncertain of his course.
                    "Tell me everything, Monty, you can trust me to be brave."
                    "When I asked you to marry me," he continued gravely, "it was with the
                        thought that I could give you everything to-morrow. I looked for a fortune. I never meant that
                        you should marry a pauper."
                    "I don't understand. You tried to test my love for you?"
                    "No, child, not that. But I was pledged not to speak of the money I expected, and I
                        wanted you so much before it came."
                    "And it has failed you?" she answered. "I can't see that it
                        changes things. I expected to marry a pauper, as you call it. Do you think this could make a
                        difference?"
                    "But you don't understand, Peggy. I haven't a penny in the
                        world."
                    
                    "You hadn't a penny when I accepted you," she replied. "I am
                        not afraid. I believe in you. And if you love me I shall not give you up."
                    "Dearest!" and the carriage was at the door before another word was uttered.
                        But Monty called to the coachman to drive just once around the block.
                    "Good night, my darling," he said when they reached home. "Sleep till
                        eight o'clock if you like. There is nothing now in the way of having the wedding at
                        nine, instead of at seven. In fact, I have a reason for wanting my whole fortune to come to me
                        then. You will be all that I have in the world, child, but I am the happiest man
                        alive."
                    In his room the strain was relaxed and Brewster faced the bitter reality. Without undressing he
                        threw himself upon the lounge and wondered what the world held for him. It held Peggy at least,
                        he thought, and she was enough. But had he been fair to her? Was he right in exacting a
                        sacrifice? His tired brain whirled in the effort to decide. Only one thing was clearthat he
                        could not give her up. The future grew black at the very thought of it. With her he could make
                        things go, but alone it was another matter. He  would take the
                        plunge and he would justify it. His mind went traveling back over the graceless year, and he
                        suddenly realized that he had forfeited the confidence of men who were worth while. His course
                        in profligacy would not be considered the best training for business. The thought nerved him to
                        action. He must make good. Peggy had faith in him. She came to him when everything was against
                        him, and he would slave for her, he would starve, he would do anything to prove that she was not
                        mistaken in him. She at least should know him for a man.
                    Looking toward the window he saw the black, uneasy night give way to the coming day. Haggard and
                        faint he arose from the couch to watch the approach of the sun that is indifferent to wealth and
                        poverty, to gayety and dejection. From far off in the gray light there came the sound of a five
                        o'clock bell. A little later the shrieks of factory whistles were borne to his ears,
                        muffled by distance but pregnant with the importance of a new day of toil. They were calling
                        him, with all poor men, to the sweat-shop and the forge, to the great mill of life. The new era
                        had begun, dawning bright and clear to disperse the gloom in his soul. Leaning against the
                        casement and  wondering where he could earn the first dollar for
                        the Peggy Brewster that was Peggy Gray, he rose to meet it with a fine unflinching fearlessness.
                    Before seven o'clock he was down stairs and waiting. Joe Bragdon joined him a bit later,
                        followed by Gardner and the minister. The DeMilles appeared without an invitation, but they were
                        not denied. Mrs. Dan sagely shook her head when told that Peggy was still asleep and that the
                        ceremony was off till nine o'clock.
                    "Monty, are you going away?" asked Dan, drawing him into a corner.
                    "Just a week in the hills," answered Monty, suddenly remembering the generosity
                        of his attorneys.
                    "Come in and see me as soon as you return, old man," said DeMille, and Monty
                        knew that a position would be open to him.
                    To Mrs. Dan fell the honor of helping Peggy dress. By the time she had had coffee and was ready
                        to go down, she was pink with excitement and had quite forgotten the anxiety which had made the
                        night an age.
                    She had never been prettier than on her wedding morning. Her color was rich, her eyes as clear as
                        stars, her woman's body the  picture of grace and health.
                        Monty's heart leaped high with love of her.
                    "The prettiest girl in New York, by Jove," gasped Dan DeMille, clutching
                        Bragdon by the arm.
                    "And look at Monty! He's become a new man in the last five minutes,"
                        added Joe. Look at the glow in his cheeks! By the eternal, he's beginning to look as he
                        did a year ago."
                    A clock chimed the hour of nine.
                    * * * * * * * * *
                    "The man who was here yesterday is in the hall to see Mr. Brewster," said the
                        maid, a few minutes after the minister had uttered the words that gave Peggy a new name. There
                        was a moment of silence, almost of dread.
                    "You mean the fellow with the beard?" asked Monty, uneasily.
                    "Yes, sir. He sent in this letter, begging you to read it at once.
                    "Shall I send him away, Monty?" demanded Bragdon, defiantly. "What
                        does he mean by coming at this time?"
                    "I'll read the letter first, Joe."
                    Every eye was on Brewster as he tore open the envelope. His face was expressive. There was wonder
                        in it, then incredulity, then  joy. He threw the letter to
                        Bragdon, clasped Peggy in his arms spasmodically, and then, releasing her, dashed for the hall
                        like one bereft of reason.
                    "It's Nopper Harrison!" he cried, and a moment later the tall visitor
                        was dragged into the circle. "Nopper" was quite overcome by the heartiness of
                        his welcome.
                    "You are an angel, Nopper, God bless you!" said Monty, with convincing
                        emphasis. "Joe, read that letter aloud and then advertize for the return of those
                        Boston terriers!"
                    Bragdon's hands trembled and his voice was not sure as he translated the scrawl,
                        "Nopper" Harrison standing behind him for the gleeful purpose of prompting him
                        when the writing was beyond the range of human intelligence.
                    "Holland House, Sept. 23, 19
                    "MR. MONTGOMERY BREWSTER,
                    "My Dear Boy:
                    "So you thought I had given you the slip, eh? Didn't think
                        I'd show up here and do my part? Well, I don't blame you; I suppose
                        I've acted like a damned idiot, but so long as it turns out O.K. there's no
                        harm done. The wolf won't gnaw very much of a hole in your door, I reckon. This letter
                        introduces my  secretary, Mr. Oliver Harrison. He came to me last
                        June, out in Butte, with the prospectus of a claim he had staked out up in the mountains. What
                        he wanted was backing and he had such a good show to win out that I went into cahoots with him.
                        He's got a mine up there that is dead sure to yield millions. Seems as though he has to
                        give you half of the yield, though. Says you grub-staked him. Good fellow, this Harrison. Needed
                        a secretary and man of affairs, so took him into my office. You can see that he did not take me
                        up into the mountains to murder me, as the papers say this morning. Damned rot.
                        Nobody's business but my own if I concluded to come east without telling everybody in
                        Butte about it.
                    "I am here and so is the money. Got in last night. Harrison came from Chicago a day
                        ahead of me. I went to office of G. & R. at eight this morning. Found them in a hell of
                        a stew. Thought I'd skipped out or been murdered. Money all gone, everything gone to
                        smash. That's what they thought. Don't blame 'em much. You see it was
                        this way: I concluded to follow out the terms of the will and deliver the goods in person. I got
                        together all of Jim Sedgwick's stuff and did a lot of other fool things, I suppose, and
                        hiked  off to New York. You'll find about seven million
                        dollars' worth of stuff to your credit when you endorse the certified checks down at
                        Grant & Ripley's, my boy. It's all here and in the banks.
                    "It's a mighty decent sort of wedding gift, I reckon.
                    "The lawyers told me all about you. Told me all about last night, and that you were
                        going to be married this morning. By this time you're comparatively happy with the
                        bride, I guess. I looked over your report and took a few peeps at the receipts. They're
                        all right. I'm satisfied. The money is yours. Then I got to thinking that maybe you
                        wouldn't care to come down at nine o'clock, especially as you are just
                        recovering from the joy of being married, so I settled with the lawyers and they'll
                        settle with you. If you have nothing in particular to do this afternoon about two
                        o'clock, I'd suggest that you come to the hotel and we'll dispose of
                        a few formalities that the law requires of us. And you can give me some lessons in spending
                        money. I've got a little I'd like to miss some morning. As for your ability as
                        a business man, I have this to say: Any man who can spend a million a year and have nothing to
                        show for it, don't need a  recommendation from anybody.
                        He's in a class by himself and it's a business that no one else can give him a
                        pointer about. The best test of your real capacity, my boy, is the way you listed your property
                        for taxation. It's a true sign of business sagacity. That would have decided me in your
                        favor if everything else had been against you.
                    "I'm sorry you've been worried about all this. You have gone through a
                        good deal in a year and you have been roasted from Hades to breakfast by everybody. Now
                        it's your turn to laugh. It will surprise them to read the "extras"
                        to-day. I've done my duty to you in more ways than one. I've got myself
                        interviewed by the newspapers and to-day they'll print the whole truth about Montgomery
                        Brewster and his millions. They've got the Sedgwick will and my story and the old town
                        will boil with excitement. I guess you'll be squared before the world, all right.
                        You'd better stay indoors for awhile though, if you want to have a quiet honeymoon.
                    "I don't like New York. Never did. Am going back to Butte to-night. Out there
                        we have real sky-scrapers and they are not built of brick. They are two or three miles high and
                        they have gold in 'em. There is real grass in  the
                        lowlands and we have valleys that make Central Park look like a half an inch of nothing.
                        Probably you and Mrs. Brewster were going to take a wedding trip, so why not go west with me in
                        my car? We start at 7:45 P.M. and I won't bother you. Then you can take it anywhere you
                        like.
                    "Sincerely yours,
                    "SWEARENGEN JONES.
                    "P.S. I forgot to say there is no such man as Golden. I bought your mines and ranches
                        with my own money. You may buy them back at the same figures. I'd advise you to do it.
                        They'll be worth twice as much in a year. I hope you'll forgive the whims of
                        an old man who has liked you from the start. J."
                    THE END.
                
            
        
        
            
            
                PRINTED BY R. R. DONNELLEY AND SONG COMPANY, AT THE LAKESIDE PRESS, CHICAGO,
                    ILI.
            
        
    
