
     ----CITATION---- 
        Wallace, Lew, 1827-1905. The First Christmas: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2393
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
                
                
                
                    THE HOLY FAMILY
                     (Repose in Egyptby Ludwig Knaus)
            
            
            
                
                    THE FIRST CHRISTMAS
                    FROM "BEN-HUR"
                
                by
                    LEW. WALLACE
                ILLUSTRATED FROM DRAWINGS BY WILLIAM MARTIN JOHNSON AND FROM PHOTOGRAPHS
                
                    NEW YORK AND LONDON
                    HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS
                    1902
                
            
            
            
                Copyright, 1880, 1891, 1899, by HARPER & BROTHERS.
                    All rights reserved.
                
                Published September, 1902.
            
            
            
                PREFACE
                I HEARD the story of the Wise Men when a small boy. My mother read it to me; and
                    of all the tales of the Bible and the New Testament none took such a lasting hold upon my
                    imagination, none so filled me with wonder. Who were they? Whence did they come? Were they all from
                    the same country? Did they come singly or together? Above all, what led them to Jerusalem, asking of
                    all they met the strange question, "Where is he that is born King of the Jews? for we have
                    seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him."
                Finally I concluded to write of them. By carrying the story on to the birth of Christ in the cave by
                    Bethlehem, it was possible, I thought, to compose a brochure that might be
                    acceptable to the Harper Brothers. Seeing the opportunities it afforded for rich illustration, they
                    might be pleased to publish it as a serial in their Magazine.
                
                When the writing was done, I laid it away in a drawer of my desk, waiting for courage to send it
                    forward; and there it might be still lying had it not been for a fortuitous circumstance.
                There was a great mass Convention of Republicans at Indianapolis in '76. I resolved to
                    attend it, and took a sleeper from Crawfordsville the evening before the meeting. Moving slowly down
                    the aisle of the car, talking with some friends, I passed the state-room. There was a knock on the
                    door from the inside, and some one called my name. Upon answer, the door opened, and I saw Colonel
                    Robert G. Ingersoll looking comfortable as might be considering the sultry weather.
                "Was it you called me, Colonel?"
                "Yes," he said. "Come in. I feel like talking."
                I leaned against the cheek of the door, and said: "Well, if you will let me dictate the
                    subject. I will come in."
                "Certainly. That's exactly what I want."
                I took seat by him, and began:
                "Is there a God?"
                Quick as a flash, he replied: "I don't know; do you?"
                And then I: "Is there a Devil?"
                
                And he: "I don't know; do you?"
                "Is there a Heaven?"
                "I don't know; do you?"
                "Is there a Hell?"
                "I don't know; do you?"
                "Is there a Hereafter?"
                "I don't know; do you?"
                I finished, saying, "There, Colonel, you have the texts. Now go."
                And he did. He was in prime mood; and, beginning, his ideas turned to speech, flowing like a heated
                    river. His manner of putting things was marvellous; and as the Wedding Guest was held by the
                    glittering eye of the Ancient Mariner. I sat spellbound, listening to a medley of argument,
                    eloquence, wit, satire, audacity, irreverence, poetry, brilliant antitheses, and pungent excoriation
                    of believers in God. Christ, and Heaven, the like of which I had never heard. he surpassed himself,
                    and that is saying a great deal.
                The speech was brought to an end by our arrival at the Indianapolis Central Station nearly two hours
                    after its commencement. Upon alighting from the car, we separated: he to go to a hotel, and I to my
                    brother's, a long way up northeast of town. The street cars were at my service, but I
                    preferred to  walk, for I was in a confusion of mind not unlike
                    dazement.
                To explain this, it is necessary now to confess that my attitude with respect to religion had been
                    one of absolute indifference. I had heard it argued times innumerable, always without interest. So,
                    too, I had read the sermons of great preachersBossuet, Chalmers, Robert Hall, and Henry Ward
                    Beecherbut always for the surpassing charm of their rhetoric. Buthow strange! To lift me out of my
                    indifference, one would think only strong affirmations of things regarded holiest would do. Yet here
                    was I now moved as never before, and by what? The most outright denials of all human knowledge of
                    God, Christ, Heaven, and the Hereafter which figures so in the hope and faith of the believing
                    everywhere. Was the Colonel right? What had I on which to answer yes or no? He had made me ashamed
                    of my ignorance; and thenhere is the unexpected of the affairas I walked on in the cool darkness I
                    was aroused for the first time in my life to the importance of religion. To write all my reflections
                    would require many pages. I pass them to say simply that I resolved to study the subject. And while
                    casting round how to set about the  study to the best advantage, I
                    thought of the manuscript in my desk. Its closing scene was the child Christ in the cave by
                    Bethlehem: why not go on with the story down to the crucifixion? That would make a book, and compel
                    me to study everything of pertinency; after which, possibly, I would be possessed of opinions of
                    real value.
                It only remains to say that I did as resolved, with resultsfirst, the book Ben-Hur,
                    and, second, a conviction amounting to absolute belief in God and the divinity of Christ.
                
                    LEWIS WALLACE.
                
            
            
            
                TABLE OF CONTENTS
                
                    I. INTO THE DESERT 3
                        
                    II. MEETING OF THE WISE MEN 10
                        
                    III. THE ATHENIAN SPEAKS--FAITH 17
                        
                    IV. SPEECH OF THE HINDOO--LOVE 22
                        
                    V. THE EGYPTIAN'S STORY--GOOD WORKS 28
                        
                    VI. THE JOPPA GATE 41
                        
                    VII. TYPICAL CHARACTERS AT THE JOPPA GATE 47
                        
                    VIII. JOSEPH AND MARY GOING TO BETHLEHEM 54
                        
                    IX. THE CAVE AT BETHLEHEM 62
                        
                    X. THE LIGHT IN THE SKY 75
                        
                    XI. CHRIST IS BORN 77
                        
                    XII. THE WISE MEN ARRIVE AT JERUSALEM 86
                        
                    XIII. THE WITNESSES BEFORE HEROD 91
                        
                    XIV. THE WISE MEN FIND THE CHILD 106
                        
                
            
            
            
                LIST OF PLATES
                
                    THE HOLY FAMILY (Repose in Egyptby Ludwig Knaus) 
                            Frontispiece
                        
                        
                    
                    THE ADORATION OF THE SHEPHERDS (From a painting by Murillo in the Prado, Madrid) Facing p. 32
                        
                    THE VIRGIN AND CHILD, ENTHRONED, WITH SAINTS (The Colonna Raphael, painted in 1505 for a
                        convent in Perugia) " 64
                        
                    THE MADONNA OF THE OLIVE-BRANCH (After the painting by N. Barabino) " 96
                        
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                        " . . . . . . .
                        
                            The flashes come and go;
                        
                        
                            All heaven bursts her starry floors,
                        
                        
                            And strews her lights below,
                        
                        
                            And deepens on and up! . . ."
                        
                    
                
                --TENNYSON.
            
        
        
            
            
                THE FIRST CHRISTMAS
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    INTO THE DESERT
                    THE Jebel es Zubleh is a mountain fifty miles and more in length, and so narrow that its tracery
                        on the map gives it a likeness to a caterpillar crawling from the south to the north. Standing
                        on its red-and-white cliffs, and looking off under the path of the rising sun, one sees only the
                        Desert of Arabia, where the east winds, so hateful to the vine-growers of Jericho, have kept
                        their playgrounds since the beginning. Its feet are well covered by sands tossed from the
                        Euphrates, there to lie; for the mountain is a wall to the pasture-lands of Moab and Ammon on
                        the westlands which else had been of the desert a part.
                    The Arab has impressed his language upon everything south and east of Judea; so, in his tongue,
                        the old Jebel is the parent of numberless wadies which, intersecting the Roman roadnow a dim
                        suggestion of what once it  was, a dusty path for Syrian pilgrims to
                        and from Meccarun their furrows, deepening as they go, to pass the torrents of the rainy season
                        into the Jordan, or their last receptacle, the Dead Sea. Out of one of these wadiesor, more
                        particularly, out of that one which rises at the extreme end of the Jebel, and, extending east
                        of north, becomes at length the bed of the Jabbok Rivera traveller passed, going to the
                        table-lands of the desert. To this person the attention of the reader is first besought.
                    Judged by his appearance, he was quite forty-five years old. His beard, once of the deepest
                        black, flowing broadly over his breast, was streaked with white. His face was brown as a parched
                        coffee-berry, and so hidden by a red kufiyeh (as the kerchief of the head is at this day called
                        by the children of the desert) as to be but in part visible. Now and then he raised his eyes,
                        and they were large and dark. He was clad in the flowing garments so universal in the East; but
                        their style may not be described more particularly, for he sat under a miniature tent, and rode
                        a great white dromedary.
                    It may be doubted if the people of the West ever overcome the impression made upon them by the
                        first view of a camel equipped and loaded for the desert. Custom, so fatal to other novelties,
                        affects this feeling but little. At the end of long journeys with caravans, after years of
                        residence with the Bedawin, the Western-born, wherever they may be, will stop and wait  the passing of the stately brute. The charm is not in the figure,
                        which not even love can make beautiful; nor in the movement, the noiseless stepping, or the
                        broad careen. As is the kindness of the sea to a ship, so is that of the desert to its creature.
                        It clothes him with all its mysteries; in such manner, too, that while we are looking at him we
                        are thinking of them: therein is the wonder. The animal which now came out of the wady might
                        well have claimed the customary homage. Its color and height; its breadth of foot, its bulk of
                        body, not fat, but overlaid with muscle; its long, slender neck, of swan-like curvature; the
                        head, wide between the eyes, and tapering to a muzzle which a lady's bracelet might
                        have almost clasped, its motion, step long and elastic, tread sure and soundlessall certified
                        its Syrian blood, old as the days of Cyrus, and absolutely priceless. There was the usual
                        bridle, covering the forehead with scarlet fringe, and garnishing the throat with pendent brazen
                        chains, each ending with a tinkling silver bell; but to the bridle there was neither rein for
                        the rider nor strap for a driver. The furniture perched on the back was an invention which with
                        any other people than of the East would have made the inventor renowned. It consisted of two
                        wooden boxes, scarce four feet in length, balanced so that one hung at each side; the inner
                        space, softly lined and carpeted, was arranged to allow the master to sit or lie half reclined;
                        over it all was stretched a green awning. Broad back and breast straps, and  girths, secured with countless knots and ties, held the device in place. In such
                        manner the ingenious sons of Cush had contrived to make comfortable the sunburned ways of the
                        wilderness, along which lay their duty as often as their pleasure.
                    When the dromedary lifted itself out of the last break of the wady, the traveller had passed the
                        boundary of El Belka, the ancient Ammon. It was morning-time. Before him was the sun, half
                        curtained in fleecy mist; before him also spread the desert; not the realm of drifting sands,
                        which was farther on, but the region where the herbage began to dwarf; where the surface is
                        strewn with bowlders of granite, and gray and brown stones, interspersed with languishing
                        acacias and tufts of camel-grass. The oak, bramble, and arbutus lay behind, as if they had come
                        to a line, looked over into the well-less waste, and crouched with fear.
                    And now there was an end of path or road. More than ever the camel seemed insensibly driven, it
                        lengthened and quickened its pace, its head pointed straight towards the horizon; through the
                        wide nostrils it drank the wind in great draughts. The litter swayed, and rose and fell like a
                        boat in the waves. Dried leaves in occasional beds rustled underfoot. Sometimes a perfume like
                        absinthe sweetened all the air. Lark and chat and rock - swallow leaped to wing, and white
                        partridges ran whistling and clucking out of the way. More rarely a fox or a hyena quickened his
                        gallop, to  study the intruders at a safe distance. Off to the right
                        rose the hills of the Jebel, the pearlgray veil resting upon them changing momentarily into a
                        purple which the sun would make matchless a little later. Over their highest peaks a vulture
                        sailed on broad wings into widening circles. But of all these things the tenant under the green
                        tent saw nothing, or, at least, made no sign of recognition. His eyes were fixed and dreamy. The
                        going of the man, like that of the animal, was as one being led.
                    For two hours the dromedary swung forward, keeping the trot steadily and the line due east. In
                        that time the traveller never changed his position, nor looked to the right or left. On the
                        desert, distance is not measured by miles or leagues, but by the saat. or hour, and the manzil,
                        or halt: three and a half leagues fill the former, fifteen or twenty-five the latter; but they
                        are the rates for the common camel. A carrier of the genuine Syrian stock can make three leagues
                        easily. At full speed he overtakes the ordinary winds. As one of the results of the rapid
                        advance, the face of the landscape underwent a change. The Jebel stretched along the western
                        horizon, like a pale-blue ribbon. A tell, or hummock of clay and cemented sand, arose here and
                        there. Now and then basaltic stones lifted their round crowns, outposts of the mountain against
                        the forces of the plain; all else, however, was sand, sometimes smooth as the beaten beach, then
                        heaped in rolling ridges; here chopped  waves, there long swells.
                        So, too, the condition of the atmosphere changed. The sun, high risen, had drunk his fill of dew
                        and mist, and warmed the breeze that kissed the wanderer under the awning; far and near he was
                        tinting the earth with faint milk-whiteness, and shimmering all the sky.
                    Two hours more passed without rest or deviation from the course. Vegetation entirely ceased. The
                        sand, so crusted on the surface that it broke into rattling flakes at every step, held
                        undisputed sway. The Jebel was out of view, and there was no landmark visible. The shadow that
                        before followed had now shifted to the north, and was keeping even race with the objects which
                        cast it; and as there was no sign of halting, the conduct of the traveller became each moment
                        more strange.
                    No one, be it remembered, seeks the desert for a pleasure-ground. Life and business traverse it
                        by paths along which the bones of things dead are strewn as so many blazons. Such are the roads
                        from well to well, from pasture to pasture. The heart of the most veteran sheik beats quicker
                        when he finds himself alone in the pathless tracts. So the man with whom we are dealing could
                        not have been in search of pleasure; neither was his manner that of a fugitive; not once did he
                        look behind him. In such situations fear and curiosity are the most common sensations; he was
                        not moved by them. When men are lonely, they stoop to any companionship;  the dog becomes a comrade, the horse a friend, and it is no shame to shower them
                        with caresses and speeches of love. The camel received no such token, not a touch, not a word.
                    Exactly at noon the dromedary, of its own will, stopped, and uttered the cry or moan, peculiarly
                        piteous, by which its kind always protest against an overload, and sometimes crave attention and
                        rest. The master thereupon bestirred himself, waking, as it were, from sleep. He threw the
                        curtains of the houdah up, looked at the sun, surveyed the country on every side long and
                        carefully, as if to identify an appointed place. Satisfied with the inspection, he drew a deep
                        breath and nodded, much as to say, "At last, at last!" A moment after, he
                        crossed his hands upon his breast, bowed his head, and prayed silently. The pious duty done, he
                        prepared to dismount. From his throat proceeded the sound heard doubtless by the favorite camels
                        of JobIkh! ikh!the signal to kneel. Slowly the animal obeyed, grunting the while. The rider then
                        put his foot upon the slender neck, and stepped upon the sand.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    MEETING OF THE WISE MEN
                    THE man as now revealed was of admirable proportions, not so tall as powerful. Loosening the
                        silken rope which held the kufiyeh on his head, he brushed the fringed folds back until his face
                        was barea strong face, almost negro in color; yet the low, broad forehead, aquiline nose, the
                        outer corners of the eyes turned slightly upward, the hair profuse, straight, harsh, of metallic
                        lustre, and falling to the shoulder in many plaits, were signs of origin impossible to disguise.
                        So looked the Pharaohs and the later Ptolemies, so looked Mizraim, father of the Egyptian race.
                        He wore the kamis, a white cotton shirt, tight-sleeved, open in front, extending to the ankles
                        and embroidered down the collar and breast, over which was thrown a brown woollen cloak, now, as
                        in all probability it was then, called the aba, an outer garment with long skirt and short
                        sleeves, lined inside with stuff of mixed cotton and silk, edged all round with a margin of
                        clouded yellow. His feet were protected by sandals, attached by thongs of soft leather. A sash
                        held the kamis to his waist. What was very noticeable, considering he was alone, and that the
                        desert was the haunt of leopards and lions, and men quite as wild, he carried  no arms, not even the crooked stick used for guiding camels;
                        wherefore we may at least infer his errand peaceful, and that he was either uncommonly bold or
                        under extraordinary protection.
                    The traveller's limbs were numb, for the ride had been long and wearisome; so he rubbed
                        his hands and stamped his feet, and walked round the faithful servant, whose lustrous eyes were
                        closing in calm content with the cud he had already found. Often, while making the circuit, he
                        paused, and, shading his eyes with his hands, examined the desert to the extremest verge of
                        vision; and always, when the survey was ended, his face clouded with disappointment, slight, but
                        enough to advise a shrewd spectator that he was there expecting company, if not by appointment;
                        at the same time, the spectator would have been conscious of a sharpening of the curiosity to
                        learn what the business could be that required transaction in a place so far from civilized
                        abode.
                    However disappointed, there could be little doubt of the stranger's confidence in the
                        coming of the expected company. In token there-of, he went first to the litter, and, from the
                        cot or box opposite the one he had occupied in coming, produced a sponge and a small gurglet of
                        water, with which he washed the eyes, face, and nostrils of the camel; that done, from the same
                        depository he drew a circular cloth, red-and-white-striped, a bundle of rods, and a stout cane.
                        The latter, after some manipulation, proved to be a cunning device of  lesser joints, one within another, which, when united together, formed a centre
                        pole higher than his head. When the pole was planted, and the rods set around it, he spread the
                        cloth over them, and was literally at homea home much smaller than the habitations of emir and
                        sheik, yet their counterpart in all other respects. From the litter again he brought a carpet or
                        square rug, and covered the floor of the tent on the side from the sun. That done, he went out,
                        and once more, and with greater care and more eager eyes, swept the encircling country. Except a
                        distant jackal, galloping across the plain, and an eagle flying towards the Gulf of Akaba, the
                        waste below, like the blue above it, was lifeless.
                    He turned to the camel, saying low, and in a tongue strange to the desert. "We are far
                        from home, O racer with the swiftest windswe are far from home, but God is with us. Let us be
                        patient."
                    Then he took some beans from a pocket in the saddle, and put them in a bag made to hang below the
                        animal's nose; and when he saw the relish with which the good servant took to the food,
                        he turned and again scanned the world of sand, dim with the glow of the vertical sun.
                    "They will come," he said, calmly. "He that led me is leading them. I
                        will make ready."
                    From the pouches which lined the interior of the cot, and from a willow basket which was part of
                        its furniture, he brought forth materials  for a meal: platters
                        close-woven of the fibres of palms; wine in small gurglets of skin; mutton dried and smoked;
                        stoneless shami, or Syrian pomegranates; dates of El Shelebei, wondrous rich and grown in the
                        nakhil, or palm orchards, of Central Arabia; cheese, like David's "slices of
                        milk;" and leavened bread from the city bakeryall which he carried and set upon the
                        carpet under the tent. As the final preparation, about the provisions he laid three pieces of
                        silk cloth, used among refined people of the East to cover the knees of guests while at tablea
                        circumstance significant of the number of persons who were to partake of his entertainmentthe
                        number he was awaiting.
                    All was now ready. He stepped out: lo! in the east a dark speck on the face of the desert. He
                        stood as if rooted to the ground; his eyes dilated; his flesh crept chilly, as if touched by
                        something supernatural. The speck grew; became large as a hand; at length assumed divine
                        proportions. A little later, full into view swung a duplication of his own dromedary, tall and
                        white, and bearing a houdah, the travelling litter of Hindostan. Then the Egyptian crossed his
                        hands upon his breast, and looked to heaven.
                    "God only is great!" he exclaimed, his eyes full of tears, his soul in awe.
                    The stranger drew nighat last stopped. Then he, too, seemed just waking. He beheld the kneeling
                        camel, the tent, and the man standing prayerfully at the door. He crossed  his hands, bent his head, and prayed silently; after which, in a little while, he
                        stepped from his camel's neck to the sand, and advanced towards the Egyptian, as did
                        the Egyptian towards him. A moment they looked at each other; then they embracedthat is, each
                        threw his right arm over the other's shoulder, and the left round the side, placing his
                        chin first upon the left, then upon the right breast.
                    "Peace be with thee, O servant of the true God!" the stranger said.
                    "And to thee, O brother of the true faith!to thee peace and welcome," the
                        Egyptian replied, with fervor.
                    The new-comer was tall and gaunt, with lean face, sunken eyes, white hair and beard, and a
                        complexion between the hue of cinnamon and bronze. He, too, was unarmed. His costume was
                        Hindostani; over the skull-cap a shawl was wound in great folds, forming a turban; his body
                        garments were in the style of the Egyptian's, except that the aba was shorter, exposing
                        wide flowing breeches gathered at the ankles. In place of sandals, his feet were clad in
                        half-slippers of red leather, pointed at the toes. Save the slippers, the costume from head to
                        foot was of white linen. The air of the man was high, stately, severe. Visvamitra, the greatest
                        of the ascetic heroes of the Iliad of the East, had in him a perfect representative. He might
                        have been called a Life drenched with the wisdom of BrahmaDevotion Incarnate. Only in his eyes
                        was there proof of humanity; when he lifted his face from the 
                        Egyptian's breast, they were glistening with tears.
                    "God only is great!" he exclaimed, when the embrace was finished.
                    "And blessed are they that serve him!" the Egyptian answered, wondering at the
                        paraphrase of his own exclamation. "But let us wait," he added, "let
                        us wait; for see, the other comes yonder!"
                    They looked to the north, where, already plain to view, a third camel, of the whiteness of the
                        others, came careening like a ship. They waited, standing togetherwaited until the new-comer
                        arrived, dismounted, and advanced towards them.
                    "Peace to you, O my brother!" he said, while embracing the Hindoo.
                    And the Hindoo answered, "God's will be done!"
                    The last comer was all unlike his friends: his frame was slighter; his complexion white; a mass
                        of waving light hair was a perfect crown for his small but beautiful head; the warmth of his
                        dark-blue eyes certified a delicate mind, and a cordial, brave nature. He was bareheaded and
                        unarmed. Under the folds of the Tyrian blanket which he wore with unconscious grace appeared a
                        tunic, short-sleeved and low-necked, gathered to the waist by a band, and reaching nearly to the
                        knee, leaving the neck, arms, and legs bare. Sandals guarded his feet. Fifty years, probably
                        more, had spent themselves upon him, with no other effect, apparently, than to tinge his
                        demeanor  with gravity and temper his words with fore-thought. The
                        physical organization and the brightness of soul were untouched. No need to tell the student
                        from what kindred he was sprung; if he came not himself from the groves of Athen, his ancestry
                        did.
                    When his arms fell from the Egyptian, the latter said, with a tremulous voice, "The
                        Spirit brought me first; wherefore I know myself chosen to be the servant of my brethren. The
                        tent is set, and the bread is ready for the breaking. Let me perform my office."
                    Taking each by the hand, he led them within, and removed their sandals and washed their feet, and
                        he poured water upon their hands, and dried them with napkins.
                    Then, when he had laved his own hands, he said, "Let us take care of ourselves,
                        brethren, as our service requires, and eat, that we may be strong for what remains of the
                        day's duty. While we eat, we will each learn who the others are, and whence they come,
                        and how they are called."
                    He took them to the repast, and seated them so that they faced each other. Simultaneously their
                        heads bent forward, their hands crossed upon their breasts, and, speaking together, they said
                        aloud this simple grace:
                    "Father of allGod!what we have here is of thee; take our thanks and bless us, that we
                        may continue to do thy will."
                    With the last word they raised their eyes, and looked at each other in wonder. Each had spoken in
                        a language never before heard  by the others; yet each understood
                        perfectly what was said. Their souls thrilled with divine emotion; for by the miracle they
                        recognized the Divine Presence.
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    THE ATHENIAN SPEAKSFAITH
                    TO speak in the style of the period, the meeting just described took place in the year of Rome
                        747. The month was December, and winter reigned over all the regions east of the Mediterranean.
                        Such as ride upon the desert in this season go not far until smitten with a keen appetite. The
                        company under the little tent were not exceptions to the rule. They were hungry, and ate
                        heartily; and, after the wine, they talked.
                    "To a wayfarer in a strange land nothing is so sweet as to hear his name on the tongue
                        of a friend," said the Egyptian, who assumed to be president of the repast.
                        "Before us lie many days of companionship. It is time we knew each other. So, if it be
                        agreeable, he who came last shall be first to speak."
                    Then, slowly at first, like one watchful of himself, the Greek began:
                    "What I have to tell, my brethren, is so strange that I hardly know where to begin or
                        what I may with propriety speak. I do not yet understand myself. The most I am sure of is that I
                        am doing a Master's will, and that the service is a constant ecstasy. When I  think of the purpose. I am sent to fulfil, there is in me a joy so
                        inexpressible that I know the will is God's."
                    The good man paused, unable to proceed, while the others, in sympathy with his feelings, dropped
                        their gaze.
                    "Far to the west of this," he began again, "there is a land which may
                        never be forgotten; if only because the world is too much its debtor, and because the
                        indebtedness is for things that bring to men their purest pleasures. I will say nothing of the
                        arts, nothing of philosophy, of eloquence, of poetry, of war: O my brethren, hers is the glory
                        which must shine forever in perfected letters, by which He we go to find and proclaim will be
                        made known to all the earth. The land I speak of is Greece. I am Gaspar, son of Cleanthes the
                        Athenian.
                    "My people," he continued, "were given wholly to study, and from them
                        I derived the same passion. It happens that two of our philosophers, the very greatest of the
                        many, teach, one the doctrine of a Soul in every man, and its Immortality; the other the
                        doctrine of One God, infinitely just. From the multitude of subjects about which the schools
                        were disputing. I separated them, as alone worth the labor of solution; for I thought there was
                        a relation between God and the soul as yet unknown. On this theme the mind can reason to a
                        point, a dead, impassable wall; arrived there, all that remains is to stand and cry aloud for
                        help. So I did; but no voice came  to me over the wall. In despair,
                        I tore myself from the cities and the schools."
                    At these words a grave smile of approval lighted the gaunt face of the Hindoo.
                    "In the northern part of my countryin Thessaly," the Greek proceeded to say,
                        "there is a mountain famous as the home of the gods, where Theus, whom my countrymen
                        believe supreme, has his abode; Olympus is its name. Thither I betook myself. I found a cave in
                        a hill where the mountain, coming from the west, bends to the southeast; there I dwelt, giving
                        myself up to meditationno, I gave myself up to waiting for what every breath was a prayerfor
                        revelation. Believing in God, invisible yet supreme. I also believed it possible so to yearn for
                        him with all my soul that he would take compassion and give me answer."
                    "And he didhe did!" exclaimed the Hindoo. lifting his hands from the silken
                        cloth upon his lap.
                    "Hear me, brethren," said the Greek, calming himself with an effort.
                        "The door of my hermitage looks over an arm of the sea, over the Thermaic Gulf. One day
                        I saw a man flung overboard from a ship sailing by. He swam ashore. I received and took care of
                        him. He was a Jew learned in the history and laws of his people; and from his I came to know
                        that the God of my prayers did indeed exist, and had been for ages their lawmaker, ruler, and
                        king. What was that but the Revelation I dreamed of? My faith had not been fruitless; God
                        answered me!"
                    
                    "As he does all who cry to him with such faith," said the Hindoo.
                    "But, alas!" the Egyptian added, "how few are there wise enough to
                        know when he answers them!"
                    "That was not all," the Greek continued. "The man so sent to me told
                        me more. He said the prophets who, in the ages which followed the first revelation, walked and
                        talked with God, declared he would come again. He gave me the names of the prophets, and from
                        the sacred books quoted their very language. He told me, further, that the second coming was at
                        handwas looked for momentarily in Jerusalem."
                    The Greek paused, and the brightness of his countenance faded.
                    "It is true," he said, after a little" it is true the man told me that
                        as God and the revelation of which he spoke had been for the Jews alone, so it would be again.
                        He that was to come should be King of the Jews. 'Had he nothing for the rest of the
                        world?' I asked. 'No,' was the answer, given in a proud voice`No, we
                        are his chosen people.' The answer did not crush my hope. Why should such a God limit
                        his love and benefaction to one land, and, as it were, to one family? I set my heart upon
                        knowing. At last I broke through the man's pride, and found that his fathers had been
                        merely chosen servants to keep the Truth alive, that the world might at last know it and be
                        saved. When the Jew was gone, and I was alone again, I chastened my soul with a new  prayerthat I might be permitted to see the King when he was come,
                        and worship him. One night I sat by the door of my cave trying to get nearer the mysteries of my
                        existence, knowing which is to know God; suddenly, on the sea below me, or rather in the
                        darkness that covered its face, I saw a star begin to burn; slowly it arose and drew nigh, and
                        stood over the hill and above my door, so that its light shone full upon me. I fell down, and
                        slept, and in my dream I heard a voice say.
                    "'O Gaspar! Thy faith hath conquered! Blessed art thou! With two others, come
                        from the uttermost parts of the earth, thou shalt see Him that is promised, and be a witness for
                        him, and occasion of testimony in his behalf. In the morning arise, and go meet them, and keep
                        trust in the Spirit that shall guide thee.
                    "And in the morning I awoke with the Spirit as a light within me surpassing that of the
                        sun. I put off my hermit's garb, and dressed myself as of old. From a hiding-place I
                        took the treasure which I had brought from the city. A ship went sailing past. I hailed it, was
                        taken aboard, and landed at Antioch. There I bought the camel and his furniture. Through the
                        gardens and orchards that enamel the banks of the Orontes, I journeyed to Emesa. Damascus,
                        Bostra, and Philadelphia; thence hither. And so, O brethren, you have my story. Let me now
                        listen to you."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    SPEECH OF THE HINDOOLOVE
                    THE Egyptian and the Hindoo looked at each other; the former waved his hand; the latter bowed,
                        and began: "Our brother has spoken well. May my words be as wise."
                    He broke off, reflected a moment, then resumed:
                    "You may know me, brethren, by the name of Melchior. I speak to you in a language which,
                        if not the oldest in the world, was at least the soonest to be reduced to lettersI mean the
                        Sanscrit of India. I am a Hindoo by birth. My people were the first to walk in the fields of
                        knowledge, first to divide them, first to make them beautiful. Whatever may here after befall,
                        the four Vedas must live, for they are the primal fountains of religion and useful intelligence.
                        From them were derived the Upa-Vedas, which, delivered by Brahma, treat of medicine, archery,
                        architecture, music, and the four-and-sixty mechanical arts; the Ved-Angas, revealed by inspired
                        saints, and devoted to astronomy, grammar, prosody, pronunciation, charms and incantations,
                        religious rites and ceremonies; the Up-Angas, written by the sage Vyasa, and given to cosmogony,
                        chronology, and given to cosmogony, chronology, and geography; therein also are the Ramayna and
                        the Mahabhrata, heroic poems,  designed for the perpetuation of our
                        gods and demi-gods. Such, O brethren, are the Great Shastras, or books of sacred ordinances.
                        They are dead to me now; yet through all time they will serve to illustrate the budding genius
                        of my race. They were promises of quick perfection. Ask you why the promises failed? Alas! the
                        books themselves closed all the gates of progress. Under pretext of care for the creature, their
                        authors imposed the fatal principle that a man must not address himself to discovery or
                        invention, as Heaven had provided him all things needful. When that condition became a sacred
                        law, the lamp of Hindoo genius was let down a well, where ever since it has lighted narrow walls
                        and bitter waters.
                    "These allusions, brethren, are not from pride, as you will understand when I tell you
                        that the Shastras teach a Supreme God called Brahm; also, that the Purnas, or sacred poems of
                        the Up-Angas, tell us of Virtue and Good Works, and of the Soul. So, if my brother will permit
                        the saying"the speaker bowed deferentially to the Greek"ages before his people
                        were known, the two great ideas, God and the Soul, had absorbed all the forces of the Hindoo
                        mind. In further explanation, let me say that Brahm is taught, by the same sacred books, as a
                        TriadBrahma, Vishnu, and Shiva. Of these, Brahma is said to have been the author of our race;
                        which, in course of creation, he divided into four castes. First, he peopled the worlds below
                        and the heavens  above; next, he made the earth ready for
                        terrestrial spirits; then from his mouth proceeded the Brahman caste, nearest in likeness to
                        himself, highest and noblest, sole teachers of the Vedas, which at the same time flowed from his
                        lips in finished state, perfect in all useful knowledge. From his arms next issued the
                        Kshatriya, or warriors; from his breast, the seat of life, came the Vaisya, or
                        producersshepherds, farmers, merchants; from his foot, in sign of degradation, sprang the Sudra,
                        or serviles, doomed to menial duties for the Sudra, or serviles, doomed to menial duties for the
                        other classesserfs, domestics, laborers, artisans, Take notice, further, that the law, so born
                        with them, forbade a man of one caste becoming a member of another; the Brahman could not enter
                        a lower order; if he violated the laws of his own grade, he became an outcast, lost to all but
                        outcasts like himself."
                    At this point, the imagination of the Greek, flashing forward upon all the consequences of such a
                        degradation, overcame his eager attention, and he exclaimed. "In such a state, O
                        brethren, what mighty need of a loving God!"
                    "Yes," added the Egyptian, "of a loving God like ours."
                    The brows of the Hindoo knit painfully; when the emotion was spent, he proceeded, in a softened
                        voice.
                    "I was born a Brahman. My life, consequently, was ordered down to its least act, its
                        last hour. My first draught of nourishment; the giving me my compound name; taking me out the
                        first time to see the sun; investing me  with the triple thread by
                        which I became one of the twice-born; my induction into the first orderwere all celebrated with
                        sacred texts and rigid ceremonies. I might not walk, eat. drink, or sleep without danger of
                        violating a rule. And the penalty, O brethren, the penalty was to my soul! According to the
                        degrees of omission, my soul went to one of the heavensIndra's the lowest,
                        Brahma's the highest; or it was driven back to become the life of a worm, a fly, a
                        fish, or a brute. The reward for perfect observance was Beatitude, or absorption into the being
                        of Brahm, which was not existence as much as absolute rest."
                    The Hindoo gave himself a moment's thought; proceeding, he said: "The part of a
                        Brahman's life called the first order is his student life. When I was ready to enter
                        the second orderthat is to say, when I was ready to marry and become a householderI questioned
                        everything, even Brahm; I was a heretic. From the depths of the well I had discovered a light
                        above, and yearned to go up and see what all it shone upon. At lastah, with what years of toilI
                        stood in the perfect day, and beheld the principle of life, the element of religion, the link
                        between the soul and GodLove!"
                    The shrunken face of the good man kindled visibly, and he clasped his hands with force. A silence
                        ensued, during which the others looked at him, the Greek through tears. At length he resumed:
                    "The happiness of love is in action; its test  is what one
                        is willing to do for others. I could not rest. Brahm had filled the world with so much
                        wretchedness. The Sudra appealed to me; so did the countless devotees and victims. The island of
                        Ganga Lagor lies where the sacred waters of the Ganges disappear in the Indian Ocean. Thither I
                        betook myself. In the shade of the temple built there to the sage Kapila, in a union of prayers
                        with the disciples whom the sanctified memory of the holy man keeps around his house, I thought
                        to find rest. But twice every year came pilgrimages of Hindoos seeking the purification of the
                        waters. Their misery strengthened my love. Against its impulse to speak I clenched my jaws; for
                        one word against Brahm or the Traid or the Shastras would doom me; one act of kindness to the
                        outcast Brahmans who now and then dragged themselves to die on the burning sandsa blessing said,
                        a cup of water givenand I became one of them, lost to family, country, privileges, caste. The
                        love conquered! I spoke to the disciples in the temple, they drove me out. I spoke to the
                        pilgrims, they stoned me from the island. On the highways I attempted to preach; my hearers fled
                        from me, or sought my life. In all India, finally, there was not a place in which I could find
                        peace or safetynot even among the outcasts; for, though fallen, they were still believers in
                        Brahm. In my extremity, I looked for a solitude in which to hide from all but God. I followed
                        the Ganges to its source, far up in the Himalayas. When I entered the pass  at Hurdwar, where the river, in unstained purity, leaps to its course through the
                        muddy lowlands, I prayed for my race, and thought myself lost to them forever. Through gorges,
                        over cliffs, across glaciers, by peaks that seemed star-high, I made my way to the Lang Tso, a
                        lake of marvellous beauty, asleep at the feet of the Tise Gangri, the Gurla, and the Kailas
                        Parbot, giants which flaunt their crowns of snow everlastingly in the face of the sun. There, in
                        the centre of the earth, where the Indus, Ganges, and Brahmapootra rise to run their different
                        courses; where mankind took up their first abode, and separated to replete the world, leaving
                        Balk, the mother of cities, to attest the great fact; where Nature, gone back to its primeval
                        condition, and secure in its immensities, invites the sage and the exile, with promise of safety
                        to the one and solitude to the otherthere I went to abide alone with God, praying, fasting,
                        waiting for death."
                    Again the voice fell, and the bony hands met in a fervent clasp.
                    "One night I walked by the shores of the lake, and spoke to the listening silence,
                        'When will God come and claim his own? Is there to be no redemption? Suddenly a light
                        began to glow tremulously out on the water; soon a star arose, and moved towards me, and stood
                        overhead. The brightness stunned me. While I lay upon the ground, I heard a voice of infinite
                        sweetness say, 'Thy love hath conquered. Blessed art thou, O son of India! The
                        redemption is at hand. With two others,  from far quarters of the
                        earth, thou shalt see the Redeemer, and be a witness that he hath come. In the morning arise,
                        and go meet them; and put all thy trust in the Spirit which shall guide thee.
                    "And from that time the light has stayed with me; so I knew it was the visible presence
                        of the Spirit. In the morning I started to the world by the way I had come. In a cleft of the
                        mountain I found a stone of vast worth, which I sold in Hurdwar. By Lahore, and Cabool, and
                        Yezd, I came to Ispahan. There I bought the camel, and thence was led to Bagdad, not waiting for
                        caravans. Alone I travelled, fearless, for the Spirit was with me, and is with me yet. What
                        glory is ours, O brethren! We are to see the Redeemerto speak to himto worship him? I am
                        done."
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    THE EGYPTIAN'S STORYGOOD WORKS
                    THE vivacious Greek broke forth in expressions of joy and congratulations; after which the
                        Egyptian said, with characteristic gravity:
                    "I salute you, my brother. You have suffered much, and I rejoice in your triumph. If you
                        are both pleased to hear me, I will now tell you who I am, and how I came to be called. Wait for
                        me a moment."
                    He went out and tended the camels; coming back, he resumed his seat.
                    
                    "Your words, brethren, were of the Spirit," he said, in commencement;
                        "and the Spirit gives me to understand them. You each spoke particularly of your
                        countries; in that there was a great object, which I will explain; but to make the
                        interpretation complete, let me first speak of myself and my people. I am Balthasar the
                        Egyptian."
                    The last words were spoken quietly, but with so much dignity that both listeners bowed to the
                        speaker.
                    "There are many distinctions I might claim for my race," he contined;
                        " but I will content myself with one. History began with us. We were the first to
                        perpetuate events by records kept. So we have no traditions; and instead of poetry, we offer you
                        certainty. On the facades of palaces and temples, on obelisks, on the inner walls of tombs, we
                        wrote the names of our kings, and what they did; and to the delicate papyri we intrusted the
                        wisdom of our philosophers and the secrets of our religionall the secrets but one, whereof I
                        will presently speak. Older than the Vedas of Para-Brahm or the Up-Angas of Vyasa, O Melchior;
                        older than the songs of Homer or the metaphysics of Plato, O my Gaspar; older than the sacred
                        books or kings of the people of China, or those of Siddrtha, son of the beautiful Maya; older
                        than the Genesis of Mosch the Hebrewoldest of human records are the writings of Menes, our first
                        king." Pausing an instant, he fixed his large eyes kindly upon the Greek, saying,
                        "In the youth of Hellas,  who, O Gaspar, were the teachers
                        of her teachers?"
                    The Greek bowed, smiling.
                    "By those records," Balthasar continued, "we know that when the
                        fathers came from the far East, from the region of the birth of the three sacred rivers, from
                        the centre of the earththe Old Iran of which you spoke, O Melchiorcame bringing with them the
                        history of the world before the Flood, and of the Flood itself, as given to the Aryans by the
                        sons of Noah, they taught God, the Creator and the Beginning, and the Soul deathless as God.
                        When the duty which calls us now is happily done, if you choose to go with me, I will show you
                        the sacred library of our priesthood; among others, the Book of the Dead, in which is the ritual
                        to be observed by the soul after Death has despatched it on its journey to judgment. The
                        ideasGod and the Immortal Soulwere borne to Mizraim over the desert, and by him to the banks of
                        the Nile. They were then in their purity, easy of understanding, as what God intends for our
                        happiness always is; so, also, was the first worshipa song and a prayer natural to a soul
                        joyous, hopeful, and in love with its Maker."
                    Here the Greek threw up his hands, exclaiming," Oh! the light deepens within
                        me!"
                    "And in me!" said the Hindoo, with equal fervor.
                    The Egyptain regarded them benignantly, then went on, saying, "Religion is merely the
                             law which binds man to his Creator: in purity it has but these
                        elementsGod, the Soul, and their Mutual Recognition; out of which, when put in practice, spring
                        Worship, Love, and Reward. This law, like all others of divine originlike that, for instance,
                        which binds the earth to the sunwas perfected in the beginning by its Author. Such, my brothers,
                        was the religion of the first family; such was the religion of our father Mizraim, who could not
                        have been blind to the formula of creation, nowhere so discernible as in the first faith and the
                        earliest worship. Perfection is God; simplicity is perfection. The curse of curses is that men
                        will not let truths like these alone."
                    He stopped, as if considering in what manner to continue.
                    "Many nations have loved the sweet waters of the Nile," he said next;
                        "the Ethiopian, the Pali-Putra, the Hebrew, the Assyrian, the Persian, the Macedonian,
                        the Romanof whom all, except the Hebrew, have at one time or another been its masters. So much
                        coming and going of peoples corrupted the old Mizraimic faith. The Valley of Palms became a
                        Valley of Gods. The Supreme One was divided into eight, each personating a creative principle in
                        nature, with Ammon-Reat the head. Then Isis and Osiris, and their circle, representing water,
                        fire, air, and other forces, were invented. Still the multiplication went on until we had
                        another order, suggested by human qualities, such as strength, knowledge, love, and the
                        like."
                    
                    "In all which there was the old folly!" cried the Greek, impulsively.
                        " Only the things out of reach remain as they came to us."
                    The Egyptian bowed, and proceeded:
                    "Yet a little further, O my brethren, a little further, before I come to myself. What we
                        go to will seem all the holier of comparison with what is and has been. The records show that
                        Mizraim found the Nile in possession of the Ethiopians, who were spread thence through the
                        African desert; people of rich, fantastic genius, wholly given to the worship of nature. The
                        poetic Persian sacrificed to the sun, as the completest image of Ormuzd, his God; the devout
                        children of the far East carved their deities out of wood and ivory; but the Ethiopian, without
                        writing, without books, without mechanical faculty of any kind. quieted his soul by the worship
                        of animals, birds, and insects, holding the cat sacred to Re, the bull to Isis, the beetle to
                        Pthah. A long struggle against their rude faith ended in its adoption as the religion of the new
                        empire. Then rose the mighty monuments that cumber the river-bank and the desertobelisk,
                        labyrinth, pyramid, and tomb of king, blent with tomb of crocodile. Into such deep de-basement,
                        O brethren, the sons of the Aryan fell!"
                    Here, for the first time, the calmness of the Egyptian forsook him: though his countenance
                        remained impassive, his voice gave way.
                    "Do not too much despise my countrymen," he began again. "They did not
                        all forget 
                        
                            
                                THE ADORATION OF THE SHEPHERDS
                                 (From a painting by Murillo in the Prado, Madrid)
                        
                        
                        
                         God. I said awhile ago, you may remember, that to papyri we
                        intrusted all the secrets of our religion except one; of that I will now tell you. We had as
                        king once a certain Pharaoh, who lent himself to all manner of changes and additions. To
                        establish the new system, he strove to drive the old entirely out of mind. The Hebrews then
                        dwelt with us as slaves. They clung to their God; and when the persecution became intolerable,
                        they were delivered in a manner never to be forgotten. I speak from the records now. Mosch,
                        himself a Hebrew, came to the palace, and demanded permission for the slaves. then millions in
                        number, to leave the country. The demand was in the name of the Lord God of Israel. Pharaoh
                        refused. Hear what followed. First, all the water, that in the lakes and rivers, like that in
                        the wells and vessels, turned to blood. Yet the monarch refused. Then frogs came up and covered
                        all the land. Still he was firm. Then Mosch threw ashes in the air, and a plague attacked the
                        Egyptians. Next, all the cattle, except of the Hebrews, were struck dead. Locusts devoured the
                        green things of the valley. At noon the day was turned into a darkness so thick that lamps would
                        not burn. Finally, in the night all the first-born of the Egyptians died; not even
                        Pharaoh's escaped. Then he yielded. But when the Hebrews were gone he followed them
                        with his army. At the last moment the sea was divided, so that the fugitives passed it dry-shod.
                        When the pursuers drove in after  them, the waves rushed back and
                        drowned horse, foot, charioteers, and king. You spoke of revelation, my Gaspar"
                    The blue eyes of the Greek sparkled.
                    "I had the story from the Jew, "he cried. "You confirm it, O
                        Balthasar!"
                    "Yes, but through me Egypt speaks, not Mosch. I interpret the marbles. The priests of
                        that time wrote in their way what they witnessed, and the revelation has lived. So I come to the
                        one unrecorded secret. In my country, brethren, we have, from the day of the unfortunate
                        Pharaoh, always had two religionsone private, the other public; one of many gods, practised by
                        the people; the other of one God, cherished only by the priesthood. Rejoice with me, O brothers!
                        All the trampling by the many nations, all the harrowing by kings, all the inventions of
                        enemies, all the changes of time, have been in vain. Like a seed under the mountains waiting its
                        hour, the glorious Truth has lived; and thisthis is its day!"
                    The wasted frame of the Hindoo trembled with delight, and the Greek cried aloud,
                    "It seems to me the very desert is singing."
                    From a gurglet of water near by the Egyptian took a draught, and proceeded:
                    "I was born at Alexandria, a prince and a priest, and had the education usual to my
                        class. But very early I became discontented. Part of the faith imposed was that after death,
                        upon the destruction of the body, the soul at once began its former progression from the lowest
                             up to humanity, the highest and last existence; and that
                        without reference to conduct in the mortal life. When I heard of the Persian's Realm of
                        Light, his Paradise across the bridge Chinevat, where only the good go, the thought haunted me;
                        insomuch that in the day, as in the night, I brooded over the comparative ideas Eternal
                        Transmigration and Eternal Life in Heaven. If, as my teacher taught, God was Just, why was there
                        no distinction between the good and the bad? At length it became clear to me, a certainty, a
                        corollary of the law to which I reduced pure religion, that death was only the point of
                        separation at which the wicked are left or lost, and the faithful rise to a higher life; not the
                        nirvana of Buddha, or the negative rest of Brahma. O Melchior; nor the better condition in hell,
                        which is all of Heaven allowed by the Olympic faith, O Gaspar; but lifelife active, joyous,
                        everlastingLIFE WITH GOD! The discovery led to another inquiry. Why should the Truth be longer
                        kept a secret for the selfish solace of the priesthood? The reason for the suppression was gone.
                        Philosophy had at least brought us toleration. In Egypt we had Rome instead of Rameses. One day,
                        in the Brucheium, the most splendid and crowded quarter of Alexandria, I arose and preached. The
                        East and West contributed to my audience. Students going to the Library, priests from the
                        Serapeion, idlers from the Museum, patrons of the race-course, countrymen from the Rhacotisa
                        multitudestopped to hear me. I preached  God, the Soul, Right and
                        Wrong, and Heaven, the reward of a virtuous life. You, O Melchior, were stoned; my auditors
                        first wondered, then laughed. I tried again; they pelted me with epigrams, covered my God with
                        ridicule, and darkened my Heaven with mockery. Not to linger needlessly, I fell before
                        them."
                    The Hindoo here drew a long sigh, as he said, "The enemy of man is man, my
                        brother."
                    Balthasar lapsed into silence.
                    "I gave much thought to finding the cause of my failure, and at last
                        succeeded," he said, upon beginning again, "Up the river a day's
                        journey from the city, there is a village of herdsmen and gardeners. I took a boat and went
                        there. In the evening I called the people together, men and women, the poorest of the poor, I
                        preached to them exactly as I had preached in the Brucheium. They did not laugh. Next evening I
                        spoke again and they believed and rejoiced, and carried the news abroad. At the third meeting a
                        society was formed for prayer. I returned to the city then. Drifting down the river, under the
                        stars, which never seemed so bright and so near, I evolved this lesson: To begin a reform, go
                        not into the places of the great and rich; go rather to those whose cups of happiness are
                        emptyto the poor and humble. And then I laid a plan and devoted my life. As a first step, I
                        secured my vast property, so that the income would be certain, and always at call for the relief
                        of the suffering. From that day, O brethren, I travelled up and down the Nile, in the  villages, and to all the tribes, preaching One God, a righteous
                        life, and reward in Heaven. I have done goodit does not become me to say how much. I also know
                        that part of the world to be ripe for the reception of Him we go to find.
                    A flush suffused the swarthy cheek of the speaker; but he overcame the feeling, and continued:
                    "The years so given. O my brothers, were troubled by one thoughtWhen I was gone, what
                        would become of the cause I had started? Was it to end with me? I had dreamed many times of
                        organization as a fitting crown for my work. To hide nothing from you. I had tried to effect it,
                        and failed. Brethren, the world is now in the condition that, to restore the old Mizraimic
                        faith, the reformer must have a more than human sanction; he must not merely come in
                        God's name, he must have the proofs subject to his word; he must demonstrate all he
                        says, even God. So preoccupied is the mind with myths and systems; so much do false deities
                        crowd every placeearth, air, sky; so have they become of everything a part, that return to the
                        first religion can only be along bloody paths, through fields of persecution; that is to say,
                        the converts must be willing to die rather than recant. And who in this age can carry the faith
                        of men to such a point but God himself? To redeem the raceI do not mean to destroy itto redeem
                        the race, he must make himself once more manifest; HE MUST COME IN PERSON."
                    
                    Intense emotion seized the three.
                    "Are we not going to find him?" exclaimed the Greek.
                    "You understand why I failed in the attempt to organize," said the Egyptian,
                        when the spell was past. "I had not the sanction. To know that my work must be lost
                        made me intolerably wretched. I believed in prayer; and to make my appeals pure and strong, like
                        you, my brethren, I went out of the beaten ways, I went where man had not been where only God
                        was, Above the fifth cataract, above the meeting of rivers in Sennar, up the Bahr el Abiad, into
                        the far unknown of Africa, I went. There, in the morning, a mountain blue as the sky flings a
                        cooling shadow wide over the western desert, and with its cascades of melted snow, feeds a broad
                        lake nestling at its base on the east. The lake is the mother of the great river. For a year and
                        more the mountain gave me a home. The fruit of the palm fed my body, prayer my spirit. One night
                        I walked in the orchard close by the little sea. 'The world is dying. When wilt thou
                        come? Why may I not see the redemption, O God?' So I prayed. The glassy water was
                        sparkling with stars. One of them seemed to leave its place, and rise to the surface, where it
                        became a brilliancy burning to the eyes. Then it moved towards me, and stood over my head,
                        apparently in hand's reach. I feel down and hid my face. A voice, not of the earth,
                        said, 'Thy good works have conquered. Blessed art thou, O son of Mizraim! The
                        redemption cometh. With two  others, from the remotenesses of the
                        world, thou shalt see the Saviour, and testify for him. In the morning arise, and go meet them.
                        And when ye have all come to the holy city of Jerusalem. ask of the people, Where is he that is
                        born King of the Jews? for we have seen his star in the East, and are sent to worship him. Put
                        all thy trust in the Spirit which will guide thee.
                    "And the light became an inward illumination not to be doubted, and has stayed with me,
                        a governor and a guide. It led me down the river to Memphis, where I made ready for the desert.
                        I bought my camel, and came hither without rest, by way of Suez and Kufileh, and up through the
                        lands of Moab and Ammon. God is with us, O my brethren!"
                    He paused, and thereupon, with a prompting not their own, they all arose, and looked at each
                        other.
                    "I said there was a purpose in the particularity with which we described our peoples and
                        their histories, "so the Egyptian proceeded.
                    "He we go to find was called 'King of the Jews; by that name we are bidden to
                        ask for him. But, now that we have met, and heard from each other, we may know him to be the
                        Redeemer, not of the Jews alone, but of all the nations of the earth. The patriarch who survived
                        the Flood had with him three sons, and their families, by whom the world was repeopled. From the
                        old Aryana-Vajo, the well-remembered Region of Delight in the heart of Asia, they parted. India
                        and the far East  received the children of the first; the
                        descendants of the youngest, through the North, streamed into Europe; those of the second
                        overflowed the deserts about the Red Sea, passing into Africa; and though most of the latter are
                        yet dwellers in shifting tents, some of them became builders along the Nile."
                    By a simultaneous impulse the three joined hands.
                    "Could anything be more divinely ordered?" Balthasar continued. "When
                        we have found the Lord, the brothers, and all the generations that have succeeded them, will
                        kneel to him in homage with us. And when we part to go our separate ways, the world will have
                        learned a new lessonthat Heaven may be won, not by the sword, not by human wisdom, but by Faith,
                        Love, and Good Works."
                    There was silence, broken by sighs and sanctified with tears; for the joy that filled them might
                        not be stayed. It was the unspeakable joy of souls on the shores of the River of Life, resting
                        with the Redeemed in God's presence.
                    Presently their hands fell apart, and together they went out of the tent. The desert was still as
                        the sky. The sun was sinking fast. The camels slept.
                    A little while after, the tent was struck, and, with the remains of the repast, restored to the
                        cot; then the friends mounted, and set out single file, led by the Egyptian. Their course was
                        due west, into the chilly night. The camels swung forward in steady trot, keeping the line and
                        the intervals so exactly that those  following seemed to tread in
                        the tracks of the leader. The riders spoke not once.
                    By-and-by the moon came up. And as the three tall white figures sped, with soundless tread,
                        through the opalescent light, they appeared like spectres flying from hateful shadows. Suddenly,
                        in the air before them, not farther up than a low hill-top, flared a lambent flame; as they
                        looked at it, the apparition contracted into a focus of dazzling lustre. Their hearts beat fast;
                        their souls thrilled; and they shouted as with one voice, "The Star! the Star! God is
                        with us!"
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    THE JOPPA GATE
                    IN an aperture of the western wall of Jerusalem hang the "oaken valves" called
                        the Bethlehem or Joppa Gate. The area outside of them is one of the notable places of the city.
                        Long before David coveted Zion there was a citadel there. When at last the son of Jesse onsted
                        the Jebusite, and began to build, the site of the citadel became the north-west corner of the
                        new wall, defended by a tower much more imposing than the old one. The location of the gate,
                        however, was not disturbed, for the reasons, most likely, that the roads which met and merged in
                        front of it could not well be transferred to any other point, while the area outside had become
                        a recognized market-place.  In Solomon's day there was
                        great traffic at the locality, shared in by traders from Egypt and the rich dealers form Tyre
                        and Sidon. Nearly three thousand years have passed, and yet a kind of commerce clings to the
                        spot. A pilgrim wanting a pin or a pistol, a cucumber or a camel, a house or a horse, a loan or
                        a lentil, a date or a dragoman, a melon or a man, a dove or a donkey, has only to inquire for
                        the article at the Joppa Gate. Sometimes the scene is quite animated, and then it suggests, What
                        a place the old market must have been in the days of Herod the Builder! And to that period and
                        that market the reader is now to be transferred.
                    Following the Hebrew system, the meeting of the wise men described in the preceding chapters took
                        place in the afternoon of the twenty-fifth day of the third month of the year; that is to say,
                        on the twenty-fifth day of December. The year was the second of the 193d Olympiad, or the 747th
                        of Rome; the sixty-seventh of Herod the Great, and the thirty-fifth of his reign; the fourth
                        before the beginning of the Christian era. The hours of the day, by Judean custom begin with the
                        sun, the first hour being the first after sunrise; so, to be precise, the market at the Joppa
                        Gate during the first hour of the day stated was in full session, and very lively. The massive
                        valves had been wide open since dawn. Business, always aggressive, had pushed through the arched
                        entrance into a narrow lane and court, which, passing by the walls of the great  tower, conducted on into the city. As Jerusalem is in the hill
                        country, the morning air on this occasion was not a little crisp. The rays of the sun, with
                        their promise of warmth, lingered provokingly far up on the battlements and turrets of the great
                        piles about, down from which fell the crooning of pigeons and the whir of the flocks coming and
                        going.
                    As a passing acquaintance with the people of the Holy City, strangers as well as residents, will
                        be necessary to an understanding of some of the pages which follow, it will be well to stop at
                        the gate and pass the scene in review. Better opportunity will not offer to get sight of the
                        populace who will after a while go forward in a mood very different from that which now
                        possesses them.
                    The scene is at first one of utter confusionconfusion of action, sounds, colors, and things. It
                        is especially so in the lane and court. The ground there is paved with broad unshaped flags,
                        from which each cry and jar and hoof-stamp arises to swell the medley that rings and roars up
                        between the solid impending walls. A little mixing with the throng, however, a little
                        familiarity with the business going on, will make analysis possible.
                    Here stands a donkey, dozing under panniers full of lentils, beans, onions, and cucumbers,
                        brought fresh from the gardens and terraces of Galilee. When not engaged in serving customers,
                        the master, in a voice which only the initiated can understand, cries his only the initiated can
                        understand, cries his stock. Nothing can be simpler than his costume  sandals, and an unbleached, undyed blanket, crossed over one shoulder and girt round the
                        waist. Near-by, and far more imposing and grotesque, though scarcely as patient as the donkey,
                        kneels a camel, raw-boned, rough, and gray, with long shaggy tufts of fox-colored hair under its
                        throat, neck, and body, and a load of boxes and baskets curiously arranged upon an enormous
                        saddle. The owner is an Egyptian, small, lithe, and of a complexion which has borrowed a good
                        deal from the dust of the roads and the sands of the desert. He wears a faded tarbooshe, a loose
                        gown, sleeveless, unbelted, and dropping from the neck to the knee. His feet are bare. The
                        camel, restless under the load, groans and occasionally shows his teeth; but the man paces
                        indifferently to and fro, holding the driving-strap, and all the time advertising his fruits
                        fresh from the orchards of the Kedrongrapes, dates, figs, apples, and pomegranates.
                    At the corner where the lane opens out into the court, some women sit with their backs against
                        the gray stones of the wall. Their dress is the gray stones of the wall. Their dress is that
                        common to the humbler classes of the countrya linen frock extending the full length of the
                        person, loosely gathered at the waist, and a veil or wimple broad enough, after covering the
                        head, to warp the shoulders. Their merchandise is contained in a number of earthen jars, such as
                        are still used in the East for bringing water from the wells, and some leathern bottles. Among
                        the jars and bottles, rolling upon the stony floor, regardless of the  crowd and cold, often in danger but never hurt, play half a dozen half-naked
                        children, their brown bodies, jetty eyes, and thick black hair attesting the blood of Israel.
                        Sometimes, from under the wimples, the mothers look up and in the vernacular modestly bespeak
                        their trade: in the bottles "honey of grapes, "in the jars "strong
                        drink." Their entreaties are usually lost in the general uproar, and they fare illy
                        against the many competitors: brawny fellows with bare legs, dirty tunics, and long beards,
                        going about with bottles lashed to their backs, and shouting" Honey of wine! Grapes of
                        En-Gedi!" When a customer halts one of them, round comes the bottle and upon lifting
                        the thumb from the nozzle, out into the ready cup gushes the deep-red blood of the luscious
                        berry.
                    Scarcely less blatant are the dealers in birdsdoves, ducks, and frequently the singing bulbul, or
                        nightingale, most frequently pigeons; and buyers, receiving them from the nets, seldom fail to
                        think of the perilous life of the catchers, bold climbers of the cliffs; now hanging with hand
                        and foot to the face of the crag, now swinging in a basket far down the mountain fissure.
                    Blent with peddlers of jewelrysharp men cloaked in scarlet and blue, top-heavy under prodigious
                        white turbans, and fully conscious of the power there is in the lustre of a ribbon and the
                        incisive gleam of gold, whether in bracelet or necklace, or in rings for the finger or the
                        noseand with peddlers of household  utensils, and with dealers in
                        wearing-apparel, and with retailers of unguents for anointing the person, and with hucksters of
                        all articles, fanciful as well as of need, hither and thither, tugging at halters and ropes, now
                        screaming, now coaxing, toil the venders of animalsdonkeys, horses, calves, sheep, bleating
                        kids, and awkward camels; animals of every kind except the outlawed swine. All these are there;
                        not singly, as described, but many times repeated; not in one place, but everywhere in the
                        market.
                    Turning from this scene in the lane and court, this glance at the sellers and their commodities,
                        the reader had need to give attention, in the next place, to visitors and buyers, for which the
                        best studies will be found outside the gates, where the spectacle is quite as varied and
                        animated; indeed, it may be more so, for there are superadded the effects of tent booth, and
                        sook, greater space, larger crowd, more unqualified freedom, and the glory of the Eastern
                        sunshine.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    TYPICAL CHARACTERS AT THE JOPPA GATE
                    LET us take our stand by the gate, just out of the edge of the currentsone flowing in, the other
                        outand use our eyes and ears a while.
                    In good time! Here come two men of a most noteworthy class.
                    "Gods! How cold it is!" says one of them, a powerful figure in armor; on his
                        head a brazen helmet, on his body a shining breastplate and skirts of mail. "How cold
                        it is! Dost thou remember, my Caius, that vault in the Comitium at home which the flamens say is
                        the entrance to the lower world? By Pluto! I could stand there this morning, long enough at
                        least to get warm again!."
                    The party addressed drops the hood of his military cloak, leaving bare his head and face, and
                        replies, with an ironic smile, "The helmets of the legions which conquered Mark Antony
                        were full of Gallic snow; but thouah, my poor friend!thou hast just come from Egypt, bringing
                        its summer in thy blood."
                    And with the last word they disappear through the entrance. Though they had been silent, the
                        armor and the sturdy step would have published them Roman soldiers.
                    From the throng a Jew comes next, meagre of frame, round-shouldered, and wearing a  coarse brown robe; over his eyes and face, and down his back hangs
                        a mat of long uncombed hair. He is alone. Those who meet him laugh, if they do not worse; for he
                        is a Nazarite, one of a despised sect which rejects the books of Moses, devotes itself to
                        abhorred vows, and goes unshorn while the vows endure.
                    As we watch his retiring figure, suddenly there is a commotion in the crowd, a parting quickly to
                        the right and left, with exclamations sharp and decisive. Then the cause comesa man, Hebrew in
                        feature and dress. The mantle of snow-white linen, held to his head by cords of yellow silk,
                        flows free over his shoulders; his robe is richly embroidered; a red sash with fringes of gold
                        wraps his waist several times. His demeanor is calm; he even smiles upon those who, with such
                        rude haste, make room for him. A leper? No, he is only a Samaritan. The shrinking crowd, if
                        asked, would say he is a mongrelan Assyrianwhose touch of the robe is pollution, from whom,
                        consequently, an Israelite, though dying, might not accept life. In fact, the feud is not of
                        blood. When David set his throne here on Mount Zion, with only Judah to support him, the ten
                        tribes betook themselves to She-chem, a city much older, and, at that date, in-finitely richer
                        in holy memories. The final union of the tribes did not settle the dispute thus begun. The
                        Samaritans clung to their tabernacle on Gerizim, and, while maintaining its superior sanctity,
                        laughed at the irate doctors in Jerusalem. Time brought no assuagement  of the hate. Under Herod, conversion to the faith was open to all the world except
                        the Samaritans; they alone were absolutely and forever shut out from communion with Jews.
                    As the Samaritan goes in under the arch of the gate, out come three men so unlike all whom we
                        have yet seen that they fix our gaze, whether we will or not. They are of unusual stature and
                        immense brawn; their eyes are blue, and so fair is their complexion that the blood shines
                        through the skin like blue pencilling; their hair is light and short; their heads, small and
                        round, rest squarely upon necks columnar as the trunks of trees. Woollen tunics, open at the
                        breast, sleeveless and loosely girt, drape their bodies, leaving bare arms and legs of such
                        development that they at once suggest the arena; and when thereto we add their careless,
                        confident, insolent manner, we cease to wonder that the people give them way, and stop after
                        they have passed to look at them again. They are gladiatorswrestlers, runners, boxers,
                        swordsmen; professionals unknown in Judea before the coming of the Roman; fellows who, what time
                        they are not in training, may be seen strolling through the king's gardens or sitting
                        with the guards at the palace gates; or possibly they are visitors from Csarea, Sebaste, or
                        Jericho; in which Herod, more Greek than Jew, and with all a Roman's love of games and
                        bloody spectacles, has built vast theatres, and now keeps schools of fighting-men, drawn, as is
                        the  custom, from the Gallic provinces or the Slavic tribes on the
                        Danube.
                    "By Bacchus!" says one of them, drawing his clinched hand to his
                        shoulder," their skulls are not thicker than egg-shells."
                    The brutal look which goes with the gesture disgusts us, and we turn happily to something more
                        pleasant.
                    Opposite us is a fruit-stand. The proprietor has a bald head, a long face, and a nose like the
                        beak of a hawk. He sits upon a carpet spread upon the dust; the wall is at his back; overhead
                        hangs a scant curtain; around him, within hand's reach, and arranged upon little
                        stools, lie oster boxes full of almonds, grapes, figs, and pomegranates. To him now comes one at
                        whom we cannot help looking, though for another reason than that which fixed our eyes upon the
                        gladiators: he is really beautifula beautiful Greek. Around his temples, holding the waving
                        hair, is a crown of myrtle, to which still cling the pale flowers and half-ripe berries. His
                        tunic, scarlet in color, is of the softest woollen fabric; below the girdle of buff leather,
                        which is clasped in front by a fantastic device of shining gold, the skirt drops to the knee in
                        folds heavy with embroidery of the same royal metal; a scarf, also woollen, and of mixed white
                        and yellow, crosses his throat and falls trailing at his back; his arms and falls trailing at
                        his back; his arms and legs, where exposed, are white as ivory, and of the polish impossible
                        except by perfect treatment with bath, oil, brushes, and pincers.
                    The dealer, keeping his seat, bends forward,  and throws his hands
                        up until they meet in front of him, palm downward and fingers extended.
                    "What hast thou, this morning, O son of Paphos?" says the young Greek, looking
                        at the boxes rather than at the Cypriote. "I am hungry. What hast thou for
                        breakfast?"
                    "Fruits from the Pediusgenuinesuch as the singers of Antioch take of mornings to restore
                        the waste of their voices," the dealer answers, in a querulous nasal tone.
                    "A fig, but not one of thy best, for the singers of Antioch!" says the Greek.
                        "Thou art a worshipper of Aphrodite, and so am I, as the myrtle I wear proves;
                        therefore I tell thee their voices have the chill of a Caspian wind. Seest thou this girdle?a
                        gift of the mighty Salome"
                    "The king's sister!" exclaims the Cypriote, with another salaam.
                    "And of royal taste and divine judgment. And why not? She is more Greek than the king.
                        Butmy breakfast! Here is thy moneyred coppers of Cyprus. Give me grapes, and"
                    "Wilt thou not take the dates also?"
                    "No, I am not an Arab."
                    "Nor figs?"
                    "That would be to make me a Jew. No, nothing but the grapes. Never waters mixed so
                        sweetly as the blood of the Greek and the blood of the grape."
                    The singer in the grimed and seething market, with all his airs of the court, is a vision  not easily shut out of mind by such as see him; as if for the
                        purpose, however, a person follows him challenging all our wonder. He comes up the road slowly,
                        his face towards the ground; at intervals he stops, crosses his hands upon his breast, lengthens
                        his countenance, and turns his eyes towards heaven, as if about to break into prayer. Nowhere,
                        except in Jerusalem, can such a character be found. On his forehead, attached to the band which
                        keeps the mantle in place, projects a leathern case, square in form; another similar case is
                        tied by a thong to the left arm; the borders of his robe are decorated with deep fringe; and by
                        such signsthe phylacteries, the enlarged borders of the garment, and the savor of intense
                        holiness pervading the whole manwe know him to be a Pharisee, one of an organization (in
                        religion a sect, in politics a party) whose bigotry and power will shortly bring the world to
                        grief.
                    The densest of the throng outside the gate covers the road leading off to Joppa. Turning from the
                        Pharisee, we are attracted by some parties who, as subjects of study, opportunely separate
                        themselves from the motley crowd. First among them a man of very noble appearanceclear,
                        healthful complexion; bright black eyes; beard long and flowing, and rich with unguents; apparel
                        well-fitting, costly, and suitable for the season. He carries a staff, and wears, suspended by a
                        cord from his neck, a large golden seal. Several servants attend him, some of them with short
                        swords  stuck through their sashes; when they address him, it is
                        with the utmost deference. The rest of the party consists of two Arabs of the pure desert stock;
                        thin, wiry men, deeply bronzed, and with hollow cheeks, and eyes of almost evil brightness; on
                        their heads red tarbooshes; over their abas, and wrapping the left shoulder and the body so as
                        to leave the right arm free, brown woollen haicks, or blankets. There is loud chaffering; for
                        the Arabs are leading horses and trying to sell them; and in their eagerness they speak in high,
                        shrill voices. The courtly person leaves the talking mostly to his servants; occasionally he
                        answers with much dignity; directly, seeing the Cypriote, he stops and buys some figs. And when
                        the whole party has passed the portal, close after the Pharisee, if we betake ourselves to the
                        dealer in fruits, he will tell, with a wonderful salaam, that the stranger is a Jew, one of the
                        princes of the city, who has travelled, and learned the difference between the common grapes of
                        Syria and those of Cyprus, so surpassingly rich with the dews of the sea.
                    And so, till towards noon, sometimes later, the steady currents of business habitually flow in
                        and out of the Joppa Gate, carrying with them every variety of character; including
                        representatives of all the tribes of Israel, all the sects among whom the ancient faith has been
                        parcelled and refined away, all the religious and social divisions, all the adventurous rabble
                        who, as children of art and ministers of pleasure, riot in the prodigalities of Herod, and all
                             the peoples of note at any time compassed by the Csars and
                        their predecessors, especially those dwelling within the circuit of the Mediterranean.
                    In other words, Jerusalem, rich in sacred history, richer in connection with sacred propheciesthe
                        Jerusalem of Solomon, in which silver was as stones, and cedars as the sycamores of the valehad
                        come to be but a copy of Rome, a centre of unholy practices, a seat of pagan power. A Jewish
                        king one day put on priestly garments, and went into the Holy of Holies of the first temple to
                        offer incense, and he came out a leper; but in the time of which we are reading, Pompey entered
                        Herod's temple and the same Holy of Holies, and came out without harm, finding but an
                        empty chamber, and of God not a sign.
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    JOSEPH AND MARY GOING TO BETHLEHEM
                    THE reader is now besought to return to the court described as part of the market at the Joppa
                        Gate. It was the third hour of the day, and many of the people had gone away; yet the press
                        continued without apparent abatement. Of the new-comers, there was a group over by the south
                        wall, consisting of a man, a woman, and a donkey, which requires extended notice.
                    The man stood by the animal's head, holding a leading-strap, and leaning upon a stick
                             which seemed to have been chosen for the double purpose of
                        goad and staff. His dress was like that of the ordinary Jews around him, except that it had an
                        appearance of newness. The mantle dropping from his head, and the robe or frock which clothed
                        his person from neck to heel, were probably the garments he was accustomed to wear to the
                        synagogue on Sabbath days. His features were exposed, and they told of fifty years of life, a
                        surmise confirmed by the gray that streaked his other-wise black beard. He looked around him
                        with the half-curious, half-vacant stare of a stranger and provincial.
                    The donkey ate leisurely from an armful of green grass, of which there was an abundance in the
                        market. In its sleepy content, the brute did not admit of disturbance from the bustle and clamor
                        about; no more was it mindful of the woman sitting upon its back in a cushioned pillion. An
                        outer robe of dull woollen stuff completely cove ed her person, while a white wimple veiled her
                        head and neck. Once in a while, impelled by curiosity to see or hear something passing. she drew
                        the wimple aside, but so slightly that the face remained invisible.
                    At length the man was accosted.
                    "Are you not Joseph of Nazareth?"
                    The speaker was standing close by.
                    "I am so called," answered Joseph, turning gravely around. "And youah,
                        peace be unto you! my friend, Rabbi Samuel!"
                    "The same give I back to you. "The Rabbi  paused,
                        looking at the woman, then added, "To you, and unto your house and all your helpers, be
                        peace."
                    With the last word, he placed one hand upon his breast, and inclined his head to the woman, who,
                        to see him, had by this time with-drawn the wimple enough to show the face of one but a short
                        time out of girlhood. There-upon the acquaintances grasped right hands, as if to carry them to
                        their lips; at the last moment, however, the clasp was let go, and each kissed his own hand,
                        then put its palm upon his forehead.
                    "There is so little dust upon your garments," the Rabbi said, familiarly,
                        "that I infer you passed the night in this city of our fathers."
                    "No," Joseph replied; " as we could only make Bethany before the night
                        came, we stayed in the khan there, and took the road again at day break."
                    "The journey before you is long, thennot to Joppa, I hope."
                    "Only to Bethlehem."
                    The countenance of the Rabbi, theretofore open and friendly, became lowering and sinister, and he
                        cleared his throat with a growl instead of a cough.
                    "Yes, yesI see," he said. "You were born in Bethlehem, and wend
                        thither now, with your daughter, to be counted for taxation, as ordered by Csar. The children of
                        Jacob are as the tribes in Egypt wereonly they have neither a Moses nor a Joshua. How are the
                        mighty fallen!"
                    
                    Joseph answered, without change of posture or countenance,
                    "The woman is not my daughter."
                    But the Rabbi clung to the political idea; and he went on, without noticing the explanation,
                        "What are the Zealots doing down in Galilee?"
                    "I am a carpenter, and Nazareth is a village," said Joseph, cautiously.
                        "The street on which my bench stands is not a road leading to any city. Hewing wood and
                        sawing plank leave me no time to take part in the disputes of parties."
                    "But you are a Jew," said the Rabbi earnestly. "You are a jew, and of
                        the line of David. It is not possible you can find pleasure in the payment of any tax except the
                        shekel given by ancient custom to Jehovah."
                    Joseph held his peace.
                    "I do not complain," his friend continued, "of the amount of the taxa
                        denarius is a trifle. Oh no The imposition of the tax is the offence. And, besides, what is
                        paying it but submission to tyranny? Tell me, is it true that Judas claims to be the Messiah?
                        You live in the midst of his followers."
                    "I have heard his followers say he was the Messiah," Joseph replied.
                    At this point the wimple was drawn aside, and for an instant the whole face of the woman was
                        exposed. The eyes of the Rabbi wandered that way, and he had time to see a countenance of rare
                        beauty, kindled by a look of intense interest; then a blush overspread  her cheeks and brow, and the veil was returned to its place.
                    The politician forgot his subject.
                    "Your daughter is comely," he said, speaking lower.
                    "She is not my daughter, " Joseph repeated.
                    The curiosity of the Rabbi was aroused; seeing which, the Nazarene hastened to say
                        further," She is the child of Joachim and Anna of Bethlehem, of whom you have at least
                        heard; for they were of great repute"
                    "Yes," remarked the Rabbi, deferentially, "I know them. They were
                        lineally descended from David. I knew them well."
                    "Well, they are dead now," the Nazarene proceeded. "They died in
                        Nazareth. Joachim was not rich, yet he left a house and garden to be divided between his
                        daughters Marian and Mary. This is one of them; and to save her portion of the property, the law
                        required her to marry her next of kin. She is now my wife."
                    "And you were"
                    "Her uncle."
                    "Yes, yes! And as you were both born in Bethlehem, the Roman compels you to take her
                        there with you to be also counted."
                    The Rabbi clasped his hands, and looked indignantly to heaven, exclaiming. "The God of
                        Israel still lives! The vengeance is his!"
                    With that he turned and abruptly departed." A stranger near by, observing
                        Joseph's amazement, said, quietly," Rabbi Samuel is a zealot. Judas himself is
                        not more fierce."
                    
                    Joseph, not wishing to talk with the man, appeared not to hear, and busied himself gathering in a
                        little heap the grass which the donkey had tossed abroad; after which he leaned upon his staff
                        again, and waited.
                    In another hour the party passed out the gate, and, turning to the left, took the road to
                        Bethlehem. The descent into the valley of Hinnom was quite broken, garnished here and there with
                        straggling wild olive-trees. Carefully, tenderly, the Nazarene walked by the woman's
                        side, leading-strap in hand. On their left, reaching to the south and east round Mount Zion,
                        rose the city wall, and on their right the steep prominences which form the western boundary of
                        the valley.
                    Slowly they passed the Lower Pool of Gihon, out of which the sun was fast driving the lessening
                        shadow of the royal hill; slowly they proceeded, keeping parallel with the aqueduct from the
                        Pools of Solomon, until near the site of the country-house on what is now called the Hill of
                        Evil Counsel; there they began to ascend to the plain of Rephaim. The sun streamed garishly over
                        the stony face of the famous locality, and under its influence Mary, the daughter of Joachim,
                        dropped the wimple entirely, and bared her head. Joseph told the story of the Philistines
                        surprised in their camp there by David. He was tedious in the narrative, speaking with the
                        solemn countenance and lifeless manner of a dull man. She did not always hear him.
                    Wherever on the land men go, and on the  sea ships, the face and
                        figure of the Jew are familiar. The physical type of the race has always been the same; yet
                        there have been some individual variations. "Now he was ruddy, and withal of a
                        beautiful countenance, and goodly to look to." Such was the son of Jesse when brought
                        before Samuel. The fancies of men have been ever since ruled by the description. Poetic license
                        had extended the Peculiarities of the ancestor to his notable descendants. So all our ideal
                        Solomons have fair faces, and hair and beard chestnut in the shade, and of the tint of gold in
                        the sun. Such, we are also made believe, were the locks of Absalom the beloved. And, in the
                        absence of authentic history, tradition has dealt no less lovingly by her whom we are now
                        following down to the native city of the ruddy king.
                    She was not more than fifteen. Her form, voice, and manner belonged to the period of transition
                        from girlhood. Her face was perfectly oval, her complexion more pale than fair. The nose was
                        faultless the lips, slightly parted, were full and ripe, giving to the lines of the mouth
                        warmth, tenderness, and trust; the eyes were blue and large, and shaded by drooping lids and
                        long lashes; and, in harmony with all, a flood of golden hair, in the style permitted to Jewish
                        brides, fell unconfined down her back to the pillion on which she sat. The throat and neck had
                        the downy softness sometimes seen which leaves the artist in doubt whether it is an effect of
                        contour or color. To these charms of feature and person  were added
                        others more indefinablean air of purity which only the soul can impart, and of abstraction
                        natural to such as think much of things impalpable. Often, with trembling lips, she raised her
                        eyes to heaven, itself not more deeply blue; often she crossed her hands upon her breast, as in
                        adoration and prayer; often she raised her head like one listening eagerly for a calling voice.
                        Now and then, midst his slow utterances, Joseph turned to look at her, and, catching the
                        expression kindling her face as with light, forgot his theme and with bowed head, wondering,
                        plodded on.
                    So they skirted the great plain, and at length reached the elevation Mar Elias; from which,
                        across a valley, they beheld Bethlehem, the old, old House of Bread, its white walls crowning a
                        ridge, and shining above the brown scumbling of leafless orchards. They paused there, and
                        rested, while Joseph pointed out the places of sacred renown: then they went down into the
                        valley to the well which was the scene of one of the marvellous exploits of David's
                        strong men. The narrow space was crowded with people and animals. A fear came upon Josepha fear
                        lest, if the town were so thronged, there might not be house-room for the gentle Mary. Without
                        delay, he hurried on, past the pillar of stone marking the tomb of Rachel, up the gardened
                        slope, saluting none of the many persons he met on the way, until he stopped before the portal
                        of the khan that then stood outside the village gates, near a junction of roads.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    THE CAVE AT BETHLEHEM
                    TO understand thoroughly what happened to the Nazarene at the khan, the reader must be reminded
                        that Eastern inns were different from the inns of the Western world. They were called khans,
                        from the Persian, and, in simplest form, were fenced enclosures, without house or shed, often
                        without a gate or entrance. Their sites were chosen with reference to shade, defence or water.
                        Such were the inns that sheltered Jacob when he went to seek a wife in Padan-Aram. Their like
                        may be seen at this day in the stopping-places of the desert. On the other hand, some of them,
                        especially those on the roads between great cities, like Jerusalem and Alexandria, were princely
                        establishments, monuments to the piety of the kings who built them. In ordinary, however, they
                        were no more than the house or possession of a sheik, in which as in headquarters, he swayed his
                        tribe. Lodging the traveller was the least of their uses; they were markets, factories, forts;
                        places of assemblage and residence for merchants and artisans quite as much as places of shelter
                        for belated and wandering wayfarers. Within their walls, all the year round, occurred the
                        multiplied daily transactions of a town.
                    The singular management of these hostelries  was the feature likely
                        to strike a Western mind with most force. There was no host or hostess; no clerk, cook, or
                        kitchen; a steward at the gate was all the assertion of government or proprietorship anywhere
                        visible. Strangers arriving stayed at will without rendering account. A consequence of the
                        system was that whoever came had to bring his food and culinary outfit with him, or buy them of
                        dealers in the khan. The same rule held good as to his bed and bedding, and forage for his
                        beasts. Water, rest, shelter, and protection were all he looked for from the proprietor, and
                        they were gratuities. The peace of synagogues was sometimes broken by brawling disputants, but
                        that of the khans never. The houses and all their appurtenances were sacred: a well was not more
                        so.
                    The khan at Bethlehem, before which Joseph and his wife stopped, was a good specimen of its
                        class, being neither very primitive nor very princely. The building was purely Oriental; that is
                        to say, a quadrangular block of rough stones, one story high flat-roofed, externally unbroken by
                        a window, and with but one principal entrancea doorway, which was also a gateway, on the eastern
                        side, or front. The road ran by the door so near that the chalk dust half covered the lintel. A
                        fence of flat rocks, beginning at the north-eastern corner of the pile, extended many yards down
                        the slope to a point from whence it swept westwardly to a limestone bluff; making what was in
                        the highest degree essential to a respectable khana safe enclosure for animals.
                    
                    In a village like Bethlehem, as there was but one sheik, there could not well be more than one
                        khan; and, though born in the place, the Nazarene, from long residence elsewhere, had no claim
                        to hospitality in the town. More-over, the enumeration for which he was coming might be the work
                        of weeks or months; Roman deputies in the provinces were proverbially slow; and to impose
                        himself and wife for a period so uncertain upon acquaintances or relations was out of the
                        question. So, before he drew nigh the great house, while he was yet climbing the slope, in the
                        steep places toiling to hasten the donkey, the fear that he might not find accommodations in the
                        khan became a painful anxiety; for he found the road thronged with men and boys who, with great
                        ado, were taking their cattle, horses, and camels to and from the valley, some to water, some to
                        the neighboring caves. And when he was come close by, his alarm was not allayed by the discovery
                        of a crowd investing the door of the establishment, while the enclosure adjoining, broad as it
                        was, seemed already full.
                    "We cannot reach the door," Joseph said, in his slow way. "Let us stop
                        here, and learn, if we can, what has happened."
                    The wife, without answering, quietly drew the wimple aside. The look of fatigue at first upon her
                        face changed to one of interest. She found herself at the edge of an assemblage that could not
                        be other than a matter of curiosity to her, although it was common enough 
                        
                            
                                THE VIRGIN AND CHILD ENTHRONED WITH SAINTS
                                 (The Colonna Raphael, painted in 1505 for a convent in Perugia)
                        
                        
                        
                         at the khans on any of the highways which the great caravans were
                        accustomed to traverse. There were men on foot, running hither and thither, talking shrilly and
                        in all the tongues of Syria; men on horseback screaming to men on camels; men struggling
                        doubtfully with fractious cows and frightened sheep; men peddling bread and wine; and among the
                        mass a herd of boys apparently in chase of a herd of dogs. Everybody and everything seemed to be
                        in motion at the same time. Possibly the fair spectator was too weary to be long attracted by
                        the scene; in a little while she sighed, and settled down on the pillion, and, as if in search
                        of peace and rest, or in expectation of some one, looked off to the south, and up to the tall
                        cliffs of the Mount of Paradise, then faintly reddening under the setting sun.
                    While she was thus looking, a man pushed his way out of the press, and, stopping close by the
                        donkey, faced about with an angry brow. The Nazarene spoke to him.
                    "As I am what I take you to be, good frienda son of Judahmay I ask the cause of this
                        multitude?"
                    The stranger turned fiercely; but, seeing the solemn countenance of Joseph, so in keeping with
                        his deep, slow voice and speech, he raised his hand in half-salutation, and replied.
                    "Peace be to you, Rabbi! I am a son of Judah, and will answer you. I dwell in
                        Beth-Dagon, which, you know, is in what used to be the land of the tribe of Dan."
                    
                    "On the road to Joppa from Modin," said Joseph.
                    "Ah, you have been in Beth-Dagon," the man said, his face softening yet more.
                        "What wanderers we of Judah are! I have been away from the ridgeold Ephrath, as our
                        father Jacob called itfor many years. When the proclamation went abroad requiring all Hebrews to
                        be numbered at the cities of their birth That is my business here, Rabbi."
                    Joseph's face remained stolid as a mask, while he remarked, "I have come for
                        that alsoI and my wife."
                    The stranger glanced at Mary and kept silence. She was looking up at the bald top of Gedor. The
                        sun touched her upturned face, and filled the violet depths of her eyes; and upon her parted
                        lips trembled an aspiration which could not have been to a mortal. For the moment, all the
                        humanity of her beauty seemed refined away: she was as we fancy they are who sit close by the
                        gate in the transfiguring light of Heaven. The Beth-Dagonite saw the original of what centuries
                        after, came as a vision of genius to Sanzio the divine, and left him immortal.
                    "Of what was I speaking? Ah! I remember. I was about to say that when I heard of the
                        order to come here, I was angry. Then I thought of the old hill, and the town, and the valley
                        falling away into the depths of Cedron: of the vines and orchards, and fields of grain,
                        unfailing since the days of Boaz and Ruth; of the familiar mountainsGedor here, Gibeah  yonder, Mar Elias therewhich, when I was a boy, were the walls of
                        the world to me; and I forgave the tyrants and cameI, and Rachel, my wife, and Deborah and
                        Michal, our roses of Sharon."
                    The man paused again, looking abruptly at Mary, who was now looking at him and listening. Then he
                        said," Rabbi, will not your wife go to mine? You may see her yonder with the children,
                        under the leaning olive-tree at the bend of the road. I tell you "he turned to Joseph
                        and spoke positively" I tell you the khan is full. It is useless to ask at the
                        gate."
                    Joseph's will was slow, like his mind; he hesitated, but at length replied.
                        "The offer is kind. Whether there be room for us or not in the house, we will go see
                        your people. Let me speak to the gate-keeper myself. I will return quickly."
                    And, putting the leading-strap in the stranger's hand, he pushed into the stirring
                        crowd.
                    The keeper sat on a great cedar block outside the gate. Against the wall behind him leaned a
                        javelin. A dog squatted on the block by his side.
                    "The peace of Jehovah be with you," said Joseph, at last confronting the
                        keeper.
                    "What you give, may you find again; and, when found, be it many times multiplied to you
                        and yours," returned the watchman, gravely, though without moving.
                    "I am a Bethlehemite," said Joseph, in his most deliberate way. "Is
                        there not room for"
                    
                    "There is not."
                    "You may have heard of meJoseph of Nazareth. This is the house of my fathers. I am of
                        the line of David."
                    These words held the Nazarene's hope. If they failed him, further appeal was idle, even
                        that of the offer of many shekels. To be a son of Judah was one thingin the tribal opinion a
                        great thing; to be of the house of David was yet another; on the tongue of a Hebrew there could
                        be no higher boast. A thousand years and more had passed since the boyish shepherd became the
                        successor of Saul and founded a royal family. Wars, calamities, other kings, and the countless
                        obscuring processes of time had, as respects fortune, lowered his descendants to the common
                        Jewish level; the bread they ate came to them of toil never more humble; yet they had the
                        benefit of history sacredly kept, of which genealogy was the first chapter and the last; they
                        could not become unknown; while, wherever they went in Israel, acquaintance drew after it a
                        respect amounting to reverence.
                    If this were so in Jerusalem and elsewhere, certainly one of the sacred line might reasonably
                        rely upon it at the door of the khan of Bethlehem. To say, as Joseph said, "This is the
                        house of my fathers," was to say the truth most simply and literally; for it was the
                        very house Ruth ruled as the wife of Boaz; the very house in which Jesse and his ten sons, David
                        the youngest, were born; the very house in which Samuel came seeking a king, and  found him; the very house which David gave to the son of
                        Barzillai, the friendly Gileadite; the very house in which Jeremiah, by prayer, rescued the
                        remnant of his race flying before the Babylonians.
                    This appeal was not without effect. The keeper of the gate slid down from the cedar block, and,
                        laying his hand upon his beard, said, respectfully, "Rabbi, I cannot tell you when this
                        door first opened in welcome to the traveller, but it was more than a thousand years ago; and in
                        all that time there is no known instance of a good man turned away, save when there was no room
                        to rest him in. If it has been so with the stranger, just cause must the steward have who says
                        no to one of the line of David. Wherefore, I salute you again; and, if you care to go with me, I
                        will show you that there is not a lodging-place left in the house; neither in the chambers, nor
                        in the lewens, nor in the courtnot even on the roof. May I ask when you came?"
                    "But now."
                    The keeper smiled.
                    "`The stranger that dwelleth with you shall be as one born among you, and thou shalt
                        love him as thyself.' Is not that the law, Rabbi?"
                    Joseph was silent.
                    "If it be the law, can I say to one a long time come, `Go thy way; another is here to
                        take thy place?'"
                    Yet Joseph held his peace.
                    "And, if I said so, to whom would the place  belong? See
                        the many that have been waiting, some of them since noon."
                    "Who are all these people?" asked Joseph, turning to the crowd. "And
                        why are they here at this time?"
                    "That which doubtless brought you, Rabbithe decree of the Csar"the keeper threw
                        an interrogative glance at the Nazarene, then continued" brought most of those who have
                        lodging in the house. And yesterday the caravan passing from Damascus to Arabia and Lower Egypt
                        arrived. These you see here belong to itmen and camels."
                    Still Joseph persisted.
                    "The court is large," he said.
                    "Yes, but it is heaped with cargoeswith bales of silk, and pockets of spices, and goods
                        of every kind."
                    Then for a moment the face of the applicant lost its stolidity; the lustreless, staring eyes
                        dropped. With some warmth he next said." I do not care for myself, but I have with me
                        my wife, and the night is coldcolder on these heights than in Nazareth. She cannot live in the
                        open air. Is there not room in the town?"
                    "These people"the keeper waved his hand to the throng before the door"
                        have all besought the town, and they report its accommodations all engaged."
                    Again Joseph studied the ground, saying, half to himself, "She is so young! if I make
                        her bed on the hill, the frosts will kill her."
                    Then he spoke to the keeper again.
                    
                    "It may be you knew her parents, Joachim and Anna, once of Bethlehem, and, like myself,
                        of the line of David."
                    "Yes, I knew them. They were good people. That was in my youth."
                    This time the keeper's eyes sought the ground in thought. Suddenly he raised his head.
                    "If I cannot make room for you," he said, "I cannot turn you away.
                        Rabbi, I will do the best I can for you. How many are of your party?"
                    Joseph reflected, then replied, "My wife and a friend with his family, from Beth-Dagon,
                        a little town over by Joppa; in all, six of us."
                    "Very well. You shall not lie out on the ridge. Bring your people, and hasten; for, when
                        the sun goes down behind the mountain, you know the night comes quickly, and it is nearly there
                        now."
                    "I give you the blessing of the houseless traveller; that of the sojourner will
                        follow."
                    So saying, the Nazarene went back joyfully to Mary and the Beth-Dagonite. In a little while the
                        latter brought up his family, the women mounted on donkeys. The wife was matronly, the daughters
                        were images of what she must have been in youth; and as they drew nigh the door, the keeper knew
                        them to be of the humble class.
                    "This is she of whom I spoke," said the Nazarene: "and these are our
                        friends."
                    Mary's veil was raised.
                    "Blue eyes and hair of gold," muttered the 
                        steward to himself, seeing but her. "So looked the young king when he went to sing
                        before Saul."
                    Then he took the leading-strap from Joseph and said to Mary, "Peace to you, O daughter
                        of David!" Then to the others, "Peace to you all!" Then to Joseph,
                        "Rabbi, follow me."
                    The party were conducted into a wide passage paved with stone, from which they entered the court
                        of the khan. To a stranger the scene would have been curious; but they noticed the lewens that
                        yawned darkly upon them from all sides, and the court itself, only to remark how crowded they
                        were. By a lane reserved in the stowage of the cargoes, and thence by a passage similar to the
                        one at the entrance, they emerged into the enclosure adjoining the house, and came upon camels,
                        horses, and donkeys, tethered and dozing in close groups; among them were the keepers, men of
                        many lands; and they, too, slept or kept silent watch. They went down the slope of the crowded
                        yard slowly, for the dull carriers of the women had wills of their own. At length they turned
                        into a path running towards the gray limestone bluff overlooking the khan on the west.
                    "We are going to the cave," said Joseph, laconically.
                    The guide lingered till Mary came to his side.
                    "The cave to which we are going," he said to her, "must have been a
                        resort of your ancestor David. From the field below us, and  from
                        the well down in the valley, he used to drive his flocks to it for safety; and afterwards, when
                        he was king, he came back to the old house here for rest and health, bringing great trains of
                        animals. The mangers yet remain as they were in his day. Better a bed upon the floor where he
                        has slept than one in the courtyard or out by the road-side. Ah, here is the house before the
                        cave!"
                    This speech must not be taken as an apology for the lodging offered. There was no need of
                        apology. The place was the best then at disposal. The guests were simple folks, by habits of
                        life easily satisfied. To the Jew of that period, moreover, abode in caverns was a familiar
                        idea, made so by every-day occurrences, and by what he heard of Sabbaths in the synagogues. How
                        much of Jewish history, how many of the most exciting incidents in that history, had transpired
                        in caves! Yet further, these people were Jews of Bethlehem, with whom the idea was especially
                        common-place; for their locality abounded with caves great and small some of which had been
                        dwelling-places from the time of the Emim and Horites. No more was there offence to them in the
                        fact that the cavern to which they were being taken had been, or was, a stable. They were the
                        descendants of a race of herdsmen, whose flocks habitually shared both their habitations and
                        wanderings. In keeping with a custom derived from Abraham, the tent of the Bedawin yet shelters
                        his horses and children alike. So they obeyed the keeper cheerfully.  and gazed at the house, feeling only a natural curiosity. Everything associated with the
                        history of David was interesting to them.
                    The building was low and narrow, projecting but a little from the rock to which it was joined at
                        the rear, and wholly without a window. In its blank front there was a door, swung on enormous
                        hinges, and thickly daubed with ochreous clay. While the wooden bolt of the lock was being
                        pushed back, the women were assisted from their pillions. Upon the opening of the door, the
                        keeper called out.
                    "Come in!"
                    The guests entered, and stared about them. It became apparent immediately that the house was but
                        a mask or covering for the mouth of a natural cave or grotto, probably forty feet long, nine or
                        ten high, and twelve or fifteen in width. The light streamed through the doorway, over an uneven
                        floor, falling upon piles of grain and fodder, and earthen-ware and house-hold property,
                        occupying the centre of the chamber. Along the sides were mangers, low enough for sheep, and
                        built of stones laid in cement. There were no stalls or partitions of any kind. Dust and chaff
                        yellowed the floor, filled all the crevices and hollows, and thickened the spider-webs, which
                        dropped from the ceiling like bits of dirty linen; otherwise the place was cleanly, and, to
                        appearance, as comfortable as any of the arched lewens of the khan proper. In fact, a cave was
                        the model and first suggestion of the lewen.
                    "Come in!" said the guide. "These piles 
                        upon the floor are for travellers like yourselves. Take what of them you need."
                    Then he spoke to Mary.
                    "Can you rest here?"
                    "The place is sanctified," she answered.
                    "I leave you then. Peace be with you all!"
                    When he was gone, they busied themselves making the cave habitable.
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    THE LIGHT IN THE SKY
                    AT a certain hour in the evening the shouting and stir of the people in and about the khan
                        ceased; at the same time, every Israelite, if not already upon his feet, arose, solemnized his
                        face, looked towards Jerusalem, crossed his hands upon his breast, and prayed; for it was the
                        sacred ninth hour, when sacrifices were offered in the temple on Moriah, and God was supposed to
                        be there. When the hands of the worshippers fell down, the commotion broke forth again;
                        everybody hastened to bread, or to make his pallet. A little later, the lights were put out, and
                        there was silence, and then sleep.
                    About midnight some one on the roof cried out, "What light is that in the sky? Awake,
                        brethren, awake and see!"
                    The people, half asleep, sat up and looked; then they became wide awake, though wonder-struck.
                        And the stir spread to the court below,  and into the lewens; soon
                        the entire ten antry of the house and court and enclosure were out gazing at the sky.
                    And this was what they saw: a ray of light, beginning at a height immeasurably beyond the nearest
                        stars, and dropping obliquely to the earth; at its top, a diminishing point; at its base, many
                        furlongs in width; its sides blending softly with the darkness of the night; its core a roseate
                        electrical splendor. The apparition seemed to rest on the nearest mountain south-east of the
                        town, making a pale corona along the line of the summit. The khan was touched luminously, so
                        that those upon the roof saw each other's faces, all filled with wonder.
                    Steadily, through minutes, the ray lingered, and then the wonder changed to awe and fear; the
                        timid trembled: the boldest spoke in whispers.
                    "Saw you ever the like?" asked one.
                    "It seems just over the mountain there. I cannot tell what it is, nor did I ever see
                        anything like it," was the answer.
                    "Can it be that a star has burst and fallen?" asked another, his tongue
                        faltering.
                    "When a star falls, its light goes out."
                    "I have it!" cried one, confidently. "The shepherds have seen a lion,
                        and made fires to keep him from the flocks."
                    The men next the speaker drew a breath of relief, and said, "Yes, that is it! The flocks
                        were grazing in the valley over there to-day."
                    A by-stander dispelled the comfort.
                    
                    "No, no! Though all the wood in all the valleys of Judah was brought together in one
                        pile and fired, the blaze would not throw a light so strong and high."
                    After that there was silence on the house-top, broken but once again while the mystery continued.
                    "Brethren!" exclaimed a Jew of venerable mien, "what we see is the
                        ladder our father Jacob saw in his dream. Blessed be the Lord God of our fathers!"
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    CHRIST IS BORN
                    A MILE and a half, it may be two miles, south-east of Bethlehem, there is a plain separated from
                        the town by an intervening swell of the mountain. Besides being well sheltered from the north
                        winds, the vale was covered with a growth of sycamore, dwarf-oak, and pine-trees, while in the
                        glens and ravines adjoining there were thickets of olive and mulberry; all at this season of the
                        year invaluable for the support of sheep, goats, and cattle, of which the wandering flocks
                        consisted.
                    At the side farthest from the town, close under a bluff, there was an extensive mrh, or sheepcot,
                        ages old. In some long-forgotten foray, the building had been unroofed and almost demolished.
                        The enclosure attached to it remained intact, however, and that was of  more importance to the shepherds who drove their charges thither than the house
                        itself. The stone wall around the lot was high as a man's head, yet not so high but
                        that sometimes a panther or a lion, hungering from the wilderness, leaped boldly in. On the
                        inner side of the wall, and as an additional security against the constant danger, a hedge of
                        the rhamnus had been planted, an invention so successful that now a sparrow could hardly
                        penetrate the overtopping branches, armed as they were with great clusters of thorns hard as
                        spikes.
                    The day of the occurrences which occupy the preceding chapters, a number of shepherds, seeking
                        fresh walks for their flocks, led them up to this plain; and from early morning the groves had
                        been made ring with calls, and the blows of axes, the bleating of sheep and goats, the tinkling
                        of bells, the lowing of cattle, and the barking of dogs. When the sun went down, they led the
                        way to the mrh, and by nightfall had everything safe in the field; then they kindled a fire down
                        by the gate, partook of their humble supper, and sat down to rest and talk, leaving one on
                        watch.
                    There were six of these men, omitting the watchman; and afterwhile they assembled in a group near
                        the fire, some sitting, some lying prone. As they went bareheaded habitually, their hair stood
                        out in thick, coarse, sunburnt shocks; their beard covered their throats, and fell in mats down
                        the breast; mantles of the skin of kids and lambs, with the fleece on,  wrapped them from neck to knee, leaving the arms exposed; broad belts girthed the
                        rude garments to their waists; their sandals were of the coarsest quality; from their right
                        shoulders hung scrips containing food and selected stones for slings, with which they were
                        armed; on the ground near each one lay his crook, a symbol of his calling and a weapon of
                        offence.
                    Such were the shepherds of Judea! In appearance rough and savage as the gaunt dogs sitting with
                        them around the blaze; in fact, simple-minded, tender-hearted: effects due, in part, to the
                        primitive life they led, but chiefly to their constant care of things lovable and helpless.
                    They rested and talked; and their talk was all about their flocks, a dull theme to the world, yet
                        a theme which was all the world to them. If in narrative they dwelt long upon affairs of
                        trifling moment; if one of them omitted nothing of detail in recounting the loss of a lamb, the
                        relation between him and the unfortunate should be remembered: at birth it became his charge,
                        his to keep all its days, to help over the floods, to carry down the hollows, to name and train;
                        it was to be his companion, his object of thought and interest, the subject of his will; it was
                        to enliven and share his wanderings; in its defence he might be called on to face the lion or
                        robberto die.
                    The great events, such as blotted out nations and changed the mastery of the world, were trifles
                        to them, if perchance they came to their knowledge. Of what Herod was doing  in this city or that, building palaces and gymnasia, and indulging forbidden
                        practices, they occasionally heard. As was her habit in those days, Rome did not wait for people
                        slow to inquire about her; she came to them. Over the hills along which he was leading his
                        lagging herd, or in the fastnesses in which he was hiding them, not unfrequently the shepherd
                        was startled by the blare of trumpets, and, peering out, beheld a cohort, sometimes a legion, in
                        march; and when the glittering crests were gone, and the excitement incident to the intrusion
                        over, he bent himself to evolve the meaning of the eagles and gilded globes of the soldiery, and
                        the charm of a life so the opposite of his own.
                    Yet these men, rude and simple as they were, had a knowledge and a wisdom of their own. On
                        Sabbaths they were accustomed to purify themselves, and go up into the synagogues, and sit on
                        the benches farthest from the ark. When the chazzan bore the Torah round, none kissed it with
                        greater zest; when the sheliach read the text, none listened to the interpreter with more
                        absolute faith; and none took away with them more of the elder's sermon, or gave it
                        more thought afterwards. In a verse of the Shema they found all the learning and all the law of
                        their simple livesthat their Lord was One God, and that they must love him with all their souls.
                        And they loved him, and such was their wisdom, surpassing that of kings.
                    While they talked, and before the first watch  was over, one by one
                        the shepherds went to sleep, each lying where he had sat.
                    The night, like most nights of the winter season in the hill country, was clear, crisp, and
                        sparkling with stars. There was no wind. The atmosphere seemed never so pure, and the stillness
                        was more than silence; it was a holy hush, a warning that heaven was stooping low to whisper
                        some good thing to the listening earth.
                    By the gate, hugging his mantle close, the watchman walked; at times he stopped, attracted by a
                        stir among the sleeping herds, or by a jackal's cry off on the mountain-side. The
                        midnight was slow coming to him; but at last it came. His task was done; now for the dreamless
                        sleep with which labor blesses its wearied children! He moved towards the fire, but paused; a
                        light was breaking around him, soft and white, like the moon's. He waited breathlessly.
                        The light deepened; things before invisible came to view; he saw the whole field, and all it
                        sheltered. A chill sharper than that of the frosty aira chill of fearsmote him. He looked up;
                        the stars were gone; the light was dropping as from a window in the sky; as he looked, it became
                        a splendor; then, in terror, he cried,
                    "Awake, awake!"
                    Up sprang the dogs, and, howling, ran away.
                    The herds rushed together bewildered.
                    The men clambered to their feet, weapons in hand.
                    "What is it?" they asked, in one voice.
                    
                    "See!" cried the watchman, "the sky is on fire!"
                    Suddenly the light became intolerably bright, and they covered their eyes, and dropped upon their
                        knees; then, as their souls shrank with fear, they fell upon their faces blind and fainting, and
                        would have died had not a voice said to them, "Fear not!"
                    And they listened.
                    "Fear not: for behold, I bring you tidings of great joy, which shall be to all
                        people."
                    The voice, in sweetness and soothing more than human, and low and clear, penetrated all their
                        being, and filled them with assurance. They rose upon their knees, and, looking worshipfully,
                        beheld in the centre of a great glory the appearance of a man, clad in a robe intensely white;
                        above its shoulders towered the tops of wings, shining and folded; a star over its forehead
                        glowed with steady lustre, brilliant as Hesperus; its hands were stretched towards them in
                        blessing; its face was serene and divinely beautiful.
                    They had often heard, and, in their simple way, talked, of angels; and they doubted not now, but
                        said, in their hearts, The glory of God is about us, and this is he who of old came to the
                        prophet by the river of Ulai.
                    Directly the angel continued:
                    "For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, which is Christ the
                        Lord!"
                    Again there was a rest, while the words sank into their minds.
                    
                    "And this shall be a sign unto you," the annunciator said next. "Ye
                        shall find the babe, wrapped in swaddling-clothes, lying in a manger."
                    The herald spoke not again; his good tidings were told; yet he stayed a while. Suddenly the
                        light, of which he seemed the centre, turned roseate and began to tremble; then up, far as the
                        men could see, there was flashing of white wings, and coming and going of radiant forms, and
                        voices as of a multitude chanting in unison,
                    "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good-will towards men!"
                    Not once the praise, but many times.
                    Then the herald raised his eyes as seeking approval of one far off; his wings stirred, and spread
                        slowly and majestically, on their upper side white as snow, in the shadow vari-tinted, like
                        mother-of-pearl; when they were expanded many cubits beyond his stature, he arose lightly, and,
                        without effort, floated out of view, taking the light up with him. Long after he was gone, down
                        from the sky fell the refrain in measure mellowed by distance, "Glory to God in the
                        highest, and on earth peace, good-will towards men!"
                    When the shepherds came fully to their sense, they stared at each other stupidly, until one of
                        them said, "It was Gabriel, the Lord's messenger unto men."
                    None answered.
                    "Christ the Lord is born; said he not so?"
                    Then another recovered his voice, and replied, "That is what he said."
                    
                    "And did he not also say, in the city of David, which is our Bethlehem yonder? And that
                        we should find him a babe in swaddling-clothes?"
                    "And lying in a manger."
                    The first speaker gazed into the fire thoughtfully, but at length said, like one possessed of a
                        sudden resolve, "There is but one place in Bethlehem where there are mangers; but one,
                        and that is in the cave near the old khan. Brethren, let us go see this thing which has come to
                        pass. The priests and doctors have been a long time looking for the Christ. Now he is born, and
                        the Lord has given us a sign by which to know him. Let us go up and worship him."
                    "But the flocks!"
                    "The Lord will take care of them. Let us make haste." Then they all arose and
                        left the mrh.
                    Around the mountain and through the town they passed, and came to the gate of the khan, where
                        there was a man on watch.
                    "What would you have?" he asked.
                    "We have seen and heard great things tonight," they replied.
                    "Well, we, too, have seen great things, but heard nothing. What did you hear?"
                    "Let us go down to the cave in the enclosure, that we may be sure; then we will tell you
                        all. Come with us, and see for yourself."
                    "It is a fool's errand."
                    "No, the Christ is born."
                    
                    "The Christ! How do you know?"
                    "Let us go and see first."
                    The man laughed scornfully.
                    "The Christ indeed! How are you to know him?"
                    "He was born this night, and is now lying in a manger, so we were told; and there is but
                        one place in Bethlehem with mangers."
                    "The cave?"
                    "Yes. Come with us."
                    They went through the court-yard without notice, although there were some up even then talking
                        about the wonderful light. The door of the cavern was open. A lantern was burning within, and
                        they entered unceremoniously.
                    "I give you peace," the watchman said to Joseph and the Beth-Dagonite.
                        "Here are people looking for a child born this night, whom they are to know by finding
                        him in swaddling-clothes and lying in a manger."
                    For a moment the face of the stolid Nazarene was moved; turning away, he said, "The
                        child is here."
                    They were led to one of the mangers, and there the child was. The lantern was brought, and the
                        shepherds stood by mute. The little one made no sign; it was as others just born.
                    "Where is the mother?" asked the watchman.
                    One of the women took the baby, and went to Mary, lying near, and put it in her arms. Then the
                        by-standers collected about the two.
                    "It is the Christ!" said a shepherd, at last.
                    "The Christ!" they all repeated, falling upon 
                        their knees in worship. One of them repeated several times over,
                    "It is the Lord his glory is above the earth and heaven."
                    And the simple men, never doubting, kissed the hem of the mother's robe, and with joyful
                        faces departed. In the khan, to all the people aroused and pressing about them, they told their
                        story; and through the town, and all the way back to the mrh, they chanted the refrain of the
                        angles, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good-will towards
                        men!"
                    The story went abroad, confirmed by the light so generally seen; and the next day, and for days
                        thereafter, the cave was visited by curious crowds, of whom some believed, though the greater
                        part laughed and mocked.
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    THE WISE MEN ARRIVE AT JERUSALEM
                    THE eleventh day after the birth of the child in the cave, about mid-afternoon, the three wise
                        men approached Jerusalem by road from Shechem. After crossing Brook Cedron, they met many
                        people, of whom none failed to stop and Look after them curiously.
                    Judea was of necessity an international thoroughfare; a narrow ridge, raised, apparently, by the
                        pressure of the desert on the east and the sea on the sea on the west, was all she could claim
                             to be; over the ridge, however, nature had stretched the line
                        of trade between the east and the south; and that was her wealth. In other words, the riches of
                        Jerusalem were the tolls she levied on passing commerce. Nowhere else, consequently, unless in
                        Rome, was there such constant assemblage of so many different nations, in other city was a
                        stranger less strange to the residents than within her walls and purlieus, And yet these men
                        excited the wonder of all whom they met on the way to the gates.
                    A child belonging to some women sitting by the road-side opposite the Tombs of the Kings saw the
                        party coming immediately it clapped its hands, and cried, "Look, look! What pretty
                        bells! What big camels!"
                    The bells were silver; the camels, as we have seen, were of unusual size and whiteness, and moved
                        with singular stateliness; the trappings told of the desert and of long journeys there on and
                        also of ample means in possession of the owners, who sat under the little canopies exactly as
                        they appeared at the rendezvous beyond the Jebel. Yet it was not the bells or the camels, or
                        their furniture, or the demeanor of the riders, that were so wonderful; it was the question put
                        by the man who rode foremost of the three.
                    The approach to Jerusalem from the north is across a plain which dips southward, leaving the
                        Damascus Gate in vale or hollow. The road is narrow, but deeply cut by long use, and in places
                        difficult on account of the cobbles  left loose and dry by the
                        washing of the rains. On either side, however, there stretched, in the old time, rich fields and
                        handsome olive-groves, which must, in luxurious growth, have been beautiful, especially to
                        travellers fresh from the wastes of the desert. In this road the three stopped before the party
                        in front of the Tombs.
                    "Good people," said Balthasar, stroking his plaited beard, and bending from his
                        cot. "is not Jerusalem close by?"
                    "Yes," answered the woman into whose arms the child had shrunk. "If
                        the trees on you swell were a little lower you could see the towers on the
                        market-place."
                    Balthasar gave the Greek and the Hindoo a look, then asked, "Where is he that is born
                        King of the Jews?"
                    The women gazed at each other without reply.
                    "You have not heard of him?"
                    "Well, tell everybody that we have seen his star in the east, and are come worship
                        him."
                    Thereupon the friends rode on. Of others they asked the same question, with like result. A large
                        company whom they met going to the Grotto of Jeremiah were so astonished by the inquiry and the
                        appearance of the travellers that they turned about and the appearance of the travellers that
                        they turned about and followed them into the city.
                    So much were the three occupied with the idea of their mission that they did not care for  the view which presently rose before them in the utmost
                        magnificence: for the village first to receive them on Bezetha; for Mizpah and Olivet, over on
                        their left; for the wall behind the village, with its forty tall and solid towers, superadded
                        partly for strength, partly to gratify the critical taste of the kingly builder; for the same
                        towered wall bending off to the right, with many an angle, and here and there an embattled gate,
                        up to the three great white piles Phaslus, Mariamne, and Hippicus; for Zion, tallest of the
                        hills, crowned with marble palaces, and never so beautiful; for the glittering terraces of the
                        temple on Moriah, admittedly one of the wonders of the earth; for the regal mountains rimming
                        the sacred city round about until it seemed in the hollow of a mighty bowl.
                    They came, at length, to a tower of great height and strength, overlooking the gate which, at
                        that time, answered to the present Damascus Gate, and marked the meeting-place of the three
                        roads from Shechem, Jericho, and Gibeon. A Roman guard kept the passageway. By this time the
                        people following the camels formed a train sufficient to draw the idlers hanging about the
                        portal; so that when Balthasar stopped to speak to the sentinel, the three became instantly the
                        centre of a close circle eager to hear all that passed.
                    "I give you peace," the Egyptian said, in a clear voice.
                    The sentinel made no reply.
                    "We have come great distances in search of  one who is
                        born King of the Jews. Can you tell us, where he is?"
                    The soldier raised the visor of his helmet, and called loudly. From an apartment at the right of
                        the passage an officer appeared.
                    "Give way," he cried, to the crowd which now pressed closer in; and as they
                        seemed slow to obey, he advanced twirling his javelin vigorously, now right, now left; and so he
                        gained room.
                    "What would you?" he asked of Balthasar, speaking in the idiom of the city.
                    And Balthasar answered in the same,
                    "Where is he that is born King of the Jews?"
                    "Herod?" asked the officer, confounded.
                    "Herod's kingship is from Csar; not Herod."
                    "There is no other King of the Jews."
                    "But we have seen the star of him we seek, and come to worship him."
                    The Roman was perplexed.
                    "Go farther," he said, at last. "Go farther. I am not a Jew, Carry the
                        question to the doctors in the Temple, or to Hannas the priest, or, better still, to Herod
                        himself. If there be another King of the Jews, he will find him."
                    Thereupon he made way for the strangers, and they passed the gate. But, before entering the
                        narrow street, Balthasar lingered to say to his friends, "We are sufficiently
                        proclaimed. By midnight the whole city will have heard of us and of our mission. Let us to the
                        khan now."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    THE WITNESSES BEFORE HEROD
                    THAT evening, before sunset, some women were washing clothes on the upper step of the flight that
                        led down into the basin of the Pool of Siloam. They knelt each before a broad bowl of
                        earthen-ware. A girl at the foot of the steps kept them supplied with water, and sang while she
                        filled the jar. The song was cheerful, and no doubt lightened their labor. Occasionally they
                        would sit upon their heels, and look up the slope of Ophel, and round to the summit of what is
                        now the Mount of Offence, then faintly glorified by the dying sun.
                    While they plied their hands, rubbing and wringing the clothes in the bowls, two other women came
                        to them, each with an empty jar upon her shoulder.
                    "Peace to you," one of the new-comers said.
                    The laborers paused, sat up, wrung the water from their hands, and returned the salutation.
                    "It is nearly nighttime to quit."
                    "There is no end to work," was the reply.
                    "But there is a time to rest, and"
                    "To hear what may be passing," interposed another.
                    "What news have you?"
                    "Then you have not heard?"
                    "No."
                    
                    "They say the Christ is born," said the newsmonger, plunging into her story.
                    It was curious to see the faces of the laborers brighten with interest; on the other side down
                        came the jars, which, in a moment, were turned into seats for their owners.
                    "The Christ!" the listeners cried.
                    "So they say,"
                    "Everybody; it is common talk."
                    "Does anybody believe it?"
                    "This afternoon three men came across Brook Cedron on the road from Shechem,"
                        the speaker replied, circumstantially, intending to smother doubt. "Each one of them
                        rode a camel spotless white, and larger than any ever before seen in Jerusalem."
                    The eyes and mouths of the auditors opened wide.
                    "To prove how great and rich the men were," the narrator continued,
                        "they sat under awnings of silk; the buckles of their saddles were of gold, as was the
                        fringe of their bridles; the bells were of silver, and made real music. Nobody knew them; they
                        looked as if they had come from the ends of the world. Only one of them spoke, and of everybody
                        on the road, even the women and children, he asked this question' Where is he that is
                        born King of the Jews?' No one gave them answerno one understood what they meant; so
                        they passed on, leaving behind them this saying; 'For we have seen his star in the
                        east, and are come to worship him.' They put the question 
                        to the Roman at the gate; and he, no wiser than the simple people on the road, sent them up to
                        Herod."
                    "Where are they now?"
                    "At the khan. Hundreds have been to look at them already, and hundreds more are
                        going."
                    "Who are they?"
                    "Nobody knows. They are said to be Persianswise men who talk with the starsprophets, it
                        may be, like Elijah and Jeremiah."
                    "What do they mean by King of the Jews?"
                    "The Christ, and that he is just born."
                    One of the women laughed, and resumed her work, saying, " Well, when I see him I will
                        believe."
                    Another followed her example: "And Iwell, when I see him raise the dead, I will
                        believe."
                    A third said quietly. "He has been a long time promised. It will be enough for me to see
                        him heal one leper."
                    And the party sat talking until the night came, and, with the help of the frosty air, drove them
                        home.
                    Later in the evening, about the beginning of the first watch, there was an assemblage in the
                        palace on Mount Zion, of probably fifty persons, who never came together except by order of
                        Herod, and then only when he had demanded to know some one or more of the deeper mysteries of
                        the Jewish law and history. It was, in short, a meeting of the teachers  of the colleges, of the chief priests, and of the doctors most noted in the city
                        for learningthe leaders of opinion, expounders of the different creeds; princes of the
                        Sadducees; Pharisaic debaters; calm, soft-spoken, stoical philosophers of the Essene socialists.
                    The chamber in which the session was held belonged to one of the interior court-yards of the
                        palace, and was quite large and Romanesque. The floor was tessellated with marble blocks; the
                        walls, unbroken by a window, were frescoed in panels of saffron-yellow; a divan occupied the
                        centre of the apartment, covered with cushions of bright-yellow cloth, and fashioned in form of
                        the letter U the opening towards the door-way; in the arch of the divan, or, as it were, in the
                        bend of the letter, there was an immense bronze tripod, curiously inlaid with gold and silver,
                        over which a chandelier dropped from the ceiling, having seven arms, each holding a lighted
                        lamp. The divan and the lamp were purely Jewish.
                    The company sat upon the divan after the style of Orientals, in costume singularly uniform,
                        except as to color. They were mostly men advanced in years; immense beards covered their faces;
                        to their large noses were added the effects of large black eyes, deeply shaded by bold brows;
                        their demeanor was grave, dignified, even patriarchal. In brief, their session was that of the
                        Sanhedrim.
                    He who sat before the tripod, however, in the place which may be called the head of the divan,
                        having all the rest of his associates on  his right and left, and,
                        at the same time, before him, evidently president of the meeting, would have instantly absorbed
                        the attention of a spectator. He had been cast in large mould, but was now shrunken and stooped
                        to ghastliness; his white robe dropped from his shoulders in folds that gave no hint of muscle
                        or anything but an angular skeleton. His hands, half-concealed by sleeves of silk, white and
                        crimson striped, were clasped upon his knees. When he spoke, sometimes the first finger of the
                        right hand extended tremulously; he seemed incapable of other gesture. But his head was a
                        splendid dome. A few hairs, whiter than fine-drawn silver, fringed the base; over a bread,
                        full-sphered skull the skin was drawn close, and shone in the light with positive brilliance;
                        the temples were deep hollows, from which the forehead beetled like a wrinkled crag; the eyes
                        were wan and dim; the nose was pinched; and all the lower face was muffled in a beard flowing
                        and venerable as Aaron's. Such was Hillel the Babylonian! The line of prophets, long
                        extinct in Israel, was now succeeded by a line of scholars, of whom he was first in learninga
                        prophet in all but the divine inspiration! At the age of one hundred and six, he was still
                        Rector of the Great College.
                    On the table before him lay out-spread a roll or volume of parchment inscribed with Hebrew
                        characters; behind him, in waiting, stood a page richly habited.
                    There had been discussion, but at this moment  of introduction the
                        company had reached a conclusion; each one was in an attitude of rest, and the venerable Hillel,
                        without moving, called the page.
                    "Hist!"
                    The youth advanced respectfully.
                    "Go tell the king we are ready to give him answer."
                    The boy hurried away.
                    After a time two officers entered and stopped, one on each side the door; after them slowly
                        followed a most striking personagean old man clad in a purple robe bordered with scarlet, and
                        girt to his waist by a band of gold linked so fine that it was pliable as leather; the latchets
                        of his shoes sparkled with precious stones; a narrow crown wrought in filigree shone outside a
                        tarbooshe of softest crimson plush, which, encasing his head, fell down the neck and shoulders,
                        leaving the throat and neck exposed. Instead of a seal, a dagger dangled from his belt. He
                        walked with a halting step, leaning heavily upon a staff. Not until he reached the opening of
                        the divan did he pause or look up from the floor; then, as for the first time conscious of the
                        company, and roused by their presence, he raised himself, and looked haughtily round, like one
                        startled and searching for an enemyso dark, suspicious, and threatening was the glance. Such was
                        Herod the Greata body broken by diseases, a conscience seared with crimes, a mind magnificently
                        capable, a soul fit for brotherhood with the Csars; now seven-and-sixty 
                        
                            
                                THE MADONNA OF THE OLIVE-BRANCH
                                 (After the painting by. N Barabino)
                        
                        
                        
                         years old, but guarding his throne with a jealousy never so
                        vigilant, a power never so despotic, and a cruelty never so inexorable.
                    There was a general movement on the part of the assemblagea bending forward in salaam by the more
                        aged, a rising-up by the more courtierly, followed by low genuflections, hands upon the beard or
                        breast.
                    His observations taken, Herod moved on until at the tripod opposite the venerable Hillel, who met
                        his cold glance with an inclination of the head, and a slight lifting of the hands.
                    "The answer!" said the king, with imperious simplicity, addressing Hillel, and
                        planting his staff before him with both hands. "The answer!"
                    The eyes of the patriarch glowed mildly, and, raising his head, and looking the inquisitor full
                        in the face, he answered, his associates giving him closest attention:
                    "With thee, O king, be the peace of God, of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob!"
                    His manner was that of invocation; changing it, he resumed:
                    "Thou hast demanded of us where the Christ should be born."
                    The king bowed, though the evil eyes remained fixed upon the sage's face.
                    "That is the question."
                    "Then, O king, speaking for myself, and all my brethren here, not one dissenting, I say,
                        in Bethlehem of Judea."
                    Hillel glanced at the parchment on the tripod;  and, pointing with
                        his tremulous finger continued, "In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the
                        prophet, 'And thou, Bethlehem, in the land of Judea, art not the least among the
                        princes of Judah; for out of thee shall come a governor that shall rule my people
                        Israel.' "
                    Herod's face was troubled, and his eyes fell upon the parchment while he thought. Those
                        beholding him scarcely breathed: they spoke not, nor did he. At length he turned about and left
                        the chamber.
                    "Brethren," said Hillel, "we are dismissed."
                    The company then arose, and in groups departed.
                    "Simeon," said Hillel again.
                    A man, quite fifty years old, but in the hearty prime of life, answered and came to him.
                    "Take up the sacred parchment, my son; roll it tenderly."
                    The order was obeyed.
                    "Now lend me thy arm; I will to the litter."
                    The strong man stooped; with his withered hands the old man took the offered support, and,
                        rising, moved feebly to the door.
                    So departed the famous Rector, and Simeon, his son, who was to be his successor in wisdom,
                        learning, and office.
                    Yet later in the evening the wise men were lying in a lewen of the khan awake. The stones which
                        served them as pillows raised their heads so they could look out of the open arch into the
                        depths of the sky; and as they  watched the twinkling of the stars,
                        they thought of the next manifestation. How would it come? What would it be? They were in
                        Jerusalem at last; they had asked at the gate for Him they sought; they had borne witness of his
                        birth; it remained only to find him; and as to that, they placed all trust in the Spirit. Men
                        listening for the voice of God, or waiting a sign from Heaven, cannot sleep.
                    While they were in this condition, a man stepped in under the arch, darkening the lewen.
                    "Awake!" he said to them; "I bring you a message which will not be put
                        off."
                    They all sat up.
                    "From whom?" asked the Egyptian
                    "Herod the king."
                    Each one felt his spirit thrill.
                    "Are you not the steward of the khan?" Balthasar asked next.
                    "I am."
                    "What would the king with us?"
                    "His messenger is without; let him answer."
                    "Tell him, then, to abide our coming."
                    "You were right, O my brother!" said the Greek, when the steward was gone.
                        "The question put to the people on the road, and to the guard at the gate, has given us
                        quick notoriety. I am impatient; let us up quickly."
                    They arose, put on their sandals, girt their mantles about them, and went out.
                    "I salute you, and give you peace, and pray your pardon; but my master, the king, has
                        sent me to invite you to the palace, where he would have speech with you privately."
                    
                    Thus the messenger discharged his duty.
                    A lamp hung in the entrance, and by its light they looked at each other, and knew the Spirit was
                        upon them. Then the Egyptian stepped to the steward, and said, so as not to be heard by the
                        others, " You know where our goods are stored in the court, and where our camels are
                        resting. While we are gone, make all things ready for our departure, if it should be
                        needful."
                    "Go your way assured; trust me," the steward replied.
                    "The king's will is our will," said Balthasar to the messenger.
                        "We will follow you."
                    The streets of the Holy City were narrow then as now, but not so rough and foul; for the great
                        builder, not content with beauty, enforced cleanliness and convenience also. Following their
                        guide, the brethren proceeded without a word. Through the dim starlight, made dimmer by the
                        walls on both sides, sometimes almost lost under bridges connecting the house-tops, out of a low
                        ground they ascended a hill. At last they came to a portal reared across the way. In the light
                        of fires blazing before it in two great braziers, they caught a glimpse of the structure, and
                        also of some guards leaning motionlessly upon their arms. They passed into a building
                        unchallenged. Then by passages and arched halls; through courts, and under colonnades not always
                        lighted; up long flights of stairs, past innumerable cloisters and chambers, they were conducted
                        into a tower of great height. Suddenly the  guide halted, and,
                        pointing through an open door, said to them.
                    "Enter. The king is there."
                    The air of the chamber was heavy with the perfume of sandal-wood, and all the appointments within
                        were effeminately rich. Upon the floor, covering the central space, a tufted rug was spread, and
                        upon that a throne was set. The visitors had but time, however, to catch a confused idea of the
                        placeof carved and gilt ottomans and couches; of fans and jars and musical instruments; of
                        golden candlesticks glittering in their own lights; of walls painted in the style of the
                        voluptuous Grecian school, one look at which had made a Pharisee hide his head with holy horror.
                        Herod, sitting upon the throne to receive them, clad as when at the conference with the doctors
                        and lawyers, claimed all their minds.
                    At the edge of the rug, to which they advanced uninvited, they prostrated themselves. The king
                        touched a bell. An attendant came in, and placed three stools before the throne.
                    "Seat yourselves," said the monarch, graciously.
                    "From the North Gate," he continued, when they were at rest, "I had
                        this afternoon report of the arrival of three strangers, curiously mounted, and appearing as if
                        from far countries. Are you the men?"
                    The Egyptian took the sign from the Greek and the Hindoo, and answered, with the profoundest
                        salaam, "Were we other than we are, the mighty Herod, whose fame is as incense to  the whole world, would not have sent for us. We may not doubt
                        that we are the strangers."
                    Herod acknowledged the speech with a wave of the hand.
                    "Who are you? Whence do you come?" he asked, adding significantly,
                        "Let each speak for himself."
                    In turn they gave him account, referring simply to the cities and lands of their birth, and the
                        routes by which they came to Jerusalem. Somewhat disappointed, Herod plied them more directly.
                    "What was the question you put to the officer at the gate?"
                    "We asked him, 'Where is he that is born King of the Jews?'"
                    "I see now why the people were so curious. You excite me no less. Is there another King
                        of the Jews?"
                    The Egyptian did not blanch.
                    "There is one newly born."
                    An expression of pain knit the dark face of the monarch, as if his mind were swept by a harrowing
                        recollection.
                    "Not to me, not to me!" he exclaimed.
                    Possibly the accusing images of his murdered children flitted before him; recovering from the
                        emotion, whatever it was, he asked, steadily, "Where is the new king?"
                    "That, O king, is what we would ask."
                    "You bring me a wondera riddle surpassing any of Solomon's," the
                        inquisitor said next. "As you see, I am in the time of life when curiosity is as
                        ungovernable as it was in childhood,  when to trifle with it is
                        cruelty. Tell me further, and I will honor you as kings honor each other. Give me all you know
                        about the newly-born, and I will join you in the search for him, and when we have found him, I
                        will do what you wish, I will bring him to Jerusalem, and train him in kingcraft; I will use my
                        grace with Csar for his promotion and glory. Jealousy shall not come between us, so I swear. But
                        tell me first how, so widely separated by seas and deserts, you all came to hear of
                        him."
                    "I will tell you truly, O king."
                    "Speak on," said Herod.
                    Balthasar raised himself erect, and said, solemnly.
                    "There is an Almighty God."
                    Herod was visibly startled.
                    "He bade us come hither, promising that we should find the Redeemer of the World; that
                        we should see and worship him, and bear witness that he was come, and, as a sign, we were each
                        given to see a star. His Spirit stayed with us. O king, his Spirit is with us now!"
                    An overpowering feeling seized the three. The Greek with difficulty restrained an outcry.
                        Herod's gaze darted quickly from one to the other; he was more suspicious and
                        dissatisfied than before.
                    "You are mocking me," he said. "If not, tell me more. What is to
                        follow the coming of the new king?"
                    "The salvation of men."
                    "From what?"
                    "Their wickedness."
                    
                    "How?"
                    "By the divine agenciesFaith, Love, and Good Works."
                    "Then"Herod paused, and from his look no man could have said with what feeling
                        he continued"you are the heralds of the Christ. Is that all?"
                    Balthasar bowed low.
                    "We are your servants, O king."
                    The monarch touched a bell, and the attendant appeared.
                    "Bring the gifts," the master said.
                    The attendant went out, but in a little while returned, and, kneeling before the guests, gave to
                        each one an outer robe or mantle of scarlet and blue, and a girdle of gold. They acknowledged
                        the honors with Eastern prostrations.
                    "A word further," said Herod, when the ceremony was ended. "To the
                        officer of the gate, and but now to me, you spoke of seeing a star in the east."
                    "Yes," said Balthasar, "his star, the star of the newly
                        born."
                    "What time did it appear?"
                    "When we were bidden come hither."
                    Herod arose, signifying the audience was over. Stepping from the throne towards them, he said,
                        with all graciousness.
                    "If, as I believe, O illustrious men, you are indeed the heralds of the Christ just
                        born, know that I have this night consulted those wisest in things Jewish, and they say with one
                        voice he should be born in Bethlehem of Judea.  I say to you, go
                        thither; go and search diligently for the young child; and when you have found him bring me word
                        again, that I may come and worship him. To your going there shall be no let or hinderance. Peace
                        be with you!"
                    And, folding his robe about him, he left the chamber.
                    Directly the guide came, and led them back to the street, and thence to the khan, at the portal
                        of which the Greek said, impulsively, "Let us to Bethlehem, O brethren, as the king has
                        advised."
                    "Yes," cried the Hindoo. "The Spirit burns within me."
                    "Be it so," said Balthasar, with equal warmth. "The camels are
                        ready."
                    They gave gifts to the steward, mounted into their saddles, received directions to the Joppa
                        Gate, and departed. At their approach the great valves were unbarred, and they passed out into
                        the open country, taking the road so lately travelled by Joseph and Mary. As they came up out of
                        Hinnom, on the plain of Rephaim, a light appeared, at the first wide-spread and faint. Their
                        pulses fluttered fast. The light intensified rapidly; they closed their eyes against its burning
                        brilliance: when they dared look again, lo! the star, perfect as any in the heavens, but low
                        down and moving slowly before them. And they folded their hands, and shouted, and rejoiced with
                        exceeding great joy.
                    "God is with us! God is with us!" they repeated, 
                        in frequent cheer, all the way, until the star, rising out of the valley beyond Mar Elias, stood
                        still over a house up on the slope of the hill near the town.
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    THE WISE MEN FIND THE CHILD
                    IT was now the beginning of the third watch, and at Bethlehem the morning was breaking over the
                        mountains in the east, but so feebly that it was yet night in the valley. The watchman on the
                        roof of the old khan, shivering in the chilly air, was listening for the first distinguishable
                        sounds with which life, awakening, greets the dawn, when a light came moving up the hill towards
                        the house. He thought it a torch in some one's hand; next moment he thought it a
                        meteor; the brilliance grew, however, until it became a star. Sore afraid, he cried out, and
                        brought everybody within the walls to the roof. The phenomenon, in eccentric motion, continued
                        to approach; the rocks, trees, and roadway under it shone as in a glare of lightning; directly
                        its brightness became blinding. The more timid of the beholders fell upon their knees, and
                        prayed, with their faces hidden; the boldest, covering their eyes, crouched, and now and then
                        snatched glances fearfully. Afterwhile the khan and everything thereabout lay under the
                        intolerable radiance. Such as dared look beheld the star standing 
                        still directly over the house in front of the cave where the Child had been born.
                    In the height of this scene, the wise men came up, and at the gate dismounted from their camels,
                        and shouted for admission. When the steward so far mastered his terror as to give them heed, he
                        drew the bars and opened to them. The camels looked spectral in the unnatural light, and,
                        besides their outlandishness, there were in the faces and manner of the three visitors an
                        eagerness and exaltation which still further excited the keeper's fears and fancy; he
                        fell back, and for a time could not answer the question they put to him.
                    "Is not this Bethlehem of Judea?"
                    But others came, and by their presence gave him assurance.
                    "No, this is but the khan; the town lies farther on."
                    "Is there not here a child newly born?"
                    The by-standers turned to each other marvelling, though some of them answered, "Yes,
                        yes."
                    "Show us to him!" said the Greek, impatiently.
                    "Show us to him!" cried Balthasar, breaking through his gravity; "for
                        we have seen his star, even that which ye behold over the house, and are come to worship him.
                    The Hindoo elasped his hands, exclaiming, "God indeed lives! Make haste, make haste! The
                        Saviour is found. Blessed, blessed are we above men!"
                    The people from the roof came down and  followed the strangers as
                        they were taken through the court and out into the enclosure; at sight of the star yet above the
                        cave, though less candescent than before, some turned back afraid; the greater part went on. As
                        the strangers neared the house, the orb arose; when they were at the door, it was high up
                        overhead vanishing; when they entered, it went out lost to sight. And to the witnesses of what
                        then took place came a conviction that there was a divine relation between the star and the
                        strangers, which extended also to at least some of the occupants of the cave. When the door was
                        opened, they crowded in.
                    The apartment was lighted by a lantern enough to enable the strangers to find the mother, and the
                        child awake in her lap.
                    "Is the child thine?" asked Balthasar of Mary.
                    And she who had kept all the things in the least affecting the little one, and pondered them in
                        her heart, held it up in the light, saying.
                    "He is my son!"
                    And they fell down and worshipped him.
                    They saw the child was as other children: about its head was neither nimbus nor material crown;
                        its lips opened not in speech; if it heard their expressions of joy, their invocations, their
                        prayers, it made no sigh whatever, but, baby-like, looked longer at the flame in the lantern
                        than at them.
                    In a little while they arose, and, returning to the camels, brought gifts of gold, frankincense,
                        and myrrh, and laid them before the child,  abating nothing of
                        their worshipful speeches; of which no part is given, for the thoughtful know that the pure
                        worship of the pure heart was then what it is now, and has always been, an inspired song.
                    And this was the Saviour they had come so far to find!
                    Yet they worshipped without a doubt.
                    Why?
                    Their faith rested upon the signs sent them by him whom we have since come to know as the Father;
                        and they were of the kind to whom his promises were so all-sufficient that they asked nothing
                        about his ways. Few there were who had seen the signs and heard the promisesthe Mother and
                        Joseph, the shepherds, and the Threeyet they all believed alike; that is to say, in this period
                        of the plan of salvation. God was all and the Child nothing. But look forward, O reader! A time
                        will come when the signs will all proceed from the Son. Happy they who then believe in him!
                    Let us wait that period.
                
            
        
    
