
     ----CITATION---- 
        Phillips, David Graham, 1867-1911. The Husband's Story: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2395
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
                The Husband's Story
                
            
            
            
                THE WORKS OF DAVID
                        GRAHAM PHILLIPS
                
                
                    The Husband's Story
                    The Hungry Heart
                    White Magic
                    The Fashionable Adventures of Joshua Craig
                    The Worth of a Woman
                    Old Wives for New
                    Light-fingered Gentry
                    The Second Generation
                    The Deluge
                    The Master Regue
                    The Social Secretary
                    Golden Fleece
                    The Plum Tree
                    A Woman Ventures
                    The Cost
                    The Great God Success
                
            
            
            
                
                    David Graham Phillips
                
                
                    The HUSBAND'S STORY
                     A NOVEL
                
                
                    NEW YORK AND LONDON
                    D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
                    1910
                
            
            
            
            	Verso
                COPYRIGHT, 1910, BY D. APPLETON AND COMPANY
                
                    Published September, 1910
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE HUSBAND'S STORY
                
                    WHY
                    SEVERAL years ago circumstances thrust me into a position
                        in which it became possible for the friend who figures in these pages as
                        Godfrey Loring to do me a favor. He, being both wise and kindly, never
                        misses a good chance to put another under obligations. He did me the favor.
                        I gratefully, if reluctantly, acquiesced. Now, after many days, he collects.
                        When you shall have read what follows, you may utterly reject my extenuating
                        plea that any and every point of view upon life is worthy of attention, even
                        though it serve only to confirm us in our previous ideas and beliefs. You
                        may say that I should have repudiated my debt, should have refused to edit
                        and publish the manuscript he confided to me. You may say that the general
                        racial obligation to mankindand to womankindtakes precedence over a private
                        and personal obligation. Unfortunately I happen to be not of the
                        philanthropic temperament. My sense of the personal is strong; my sense of
                        the general weakthat is to say, weak in comparison. If
                        "Loring" had been within reach, I think I should have gone
                        to him and pleaded for release. But as luck will have it, he is off
                        yachting, to peep about in the remote  inlets
                        and islets of Australasia and the South Seas for several years.
                    To aggravate my situation, in the letter accompanying the manuscript, after
                        several pages of the discriminating praise most dear to a writer's
                        heart, he did me the supreme honor of saying that in his work he had
                        "striven to copy as closely as might be your style and your
                        methodsto help me to the hearing I want and to lighten your labors as
                        editor." I assure him and the public that in any event I should
                        have done little editing of his curious production beyond such as a
                        proofreader might have found necessary. As it is, I have done practically no
                        editing at all. In form and in substance, from title to finis, the work is
                        his. I am merely its sponsorand in circumstances that would forbid me were I
                        disposed to qualify my sponsorship with even so mild a disclaimer as
                        reluctance.
                    Have I said more than a loyal friend should? If so, on the other hand, have I
                        not done all that a loyal friend could?
                
                
                
                    I
                    I AM tempted to begin with our arrival in Fifth Avenue,
                        New York City, in the pomp and circumstance befitting that region of regal
                        splendor. I should at once catch the attention of the women; and my literary
                        friends tell me that to make any headway with a story in America it is
                        necessary to catch the women, because the men either do not read books at
                        all or read only what they hear the women talking about. And I know wellnone
                        knows betterthat our women of the book-buying class, and probably of all
                        classes, love to amuse their useless idleness with books that help them to
                        dream of wasting large sums of money upon luxuries and extravagances, upon
                        entertaining grand people in grand houses and being entertained by them.
                        They tell me, and I believe it, that our women abhor stories of middle-class
                        life, abhor truth-telling stories of any kind, like only what assures them
                        that the promptings of their own vanities and sentimental shams are true.
                    But patience, gentle reader, you with the foolish, chimera-haunted brain,
                        with the silly ideas of life, with the ignorance of human nature including
                        your own self, with the love of sloppy and tawdry clap trap. Patience,
                        gentle reader. While I shall begin humbly in the social scale, I shall not
                        linger there long. I shall pass  on to the
                        surroundings of grandeur that entrance your snobbish soul. You will soon
                        smell only fine perfumes, only the aromas of food cooked by expensive chefs.
                        You will sit in drawing-rooms, lie in bedrooms as magnificent as the
                        architects and decorators and other purveyors to the very rich have been
                        able to concoct. You will be tasting the fine savors of fashionable names
                        and titles recorded in Burke's and the "Almanach de
                        Gotha." Patience, gentle reader, with your box of caramels and your
                        hair in curl papers and your household work undonepatience! A feast awaits
                        you.
                    There has been much in the papers these last few years about the splendid
                        families wemy wife and Icame of. Some time ago one of the English dukesa
                        nice chap with nothing to do and a quaint sense of humorassembled on his
                        estate for a sort of holiday and picnic all the members of his ancient and
                        proud family who could be got together by several months of diligent search.
                        It was a strange and awful throng that covered the lawns before the ducal
                        castle on the appointed day. There was a handful of fairly presentable, more
                        or less prosperous persons. But the most of the duke's cousins,
                        near and remote, were tramps, bartenders, jail birds, women of the town,
                        field hands male and female, sewer cleaners, chimney sweeps, needlewomen,
                        curates, small shopkeepers, and others of the species that are as a stench
                        unto delicate, aristocratic nostrils. The duke was delighted with his
                        picnic, pronounced it a huge success. But then His Grace had a sense of
                        humor and was not an American aristocrat.
                    All this by way of preparation for the admission 
                        that the branch of the Loring family from which I come and the branch of the
                        Wheatlands family to which the girl I married belongs were far from
                        magnificent, were no more imposing then, well, than the families of any of
                        our American aristocrats. Like theirs, our genealogical tree, most
                        imposingly printed and bound and proudly exhibited on a special stand in the
                        library of our New York palacethat genealogical tree, for all its air of
                        honesty, for all its documentary proofs, worm-eaten and age-stained, was
                        like an artificial palm bedded in artificial moss. The truth is, aristocracy
                        does not thrive in America, but only the pretense of it, and that must be
                        kept alive by constant renewals. Both here and abroad I am constantly
                        running across traces of illegitimacy, substitution, and other forms of
                        genealogical flimflam. But let that pass. Whoever is or is not aristocratic,
                        certainly Godfrey Loring and Edna Wheatlands are notor, rather, were not.
                    My father kept a dejected little grocery in Passaic, N. J. He did not become
                        a "retired merchant and capitalist" until I was able to
                        retire and capitalize him. Edna's father was No, you guess wrong.
                        Not a butcher, butan undertaker!... Whew! I am glad to have these shameful
                        secrets "off the chest," as they say in the Bowery. Hethis
                        Wheatlands, undertaker to the poor and near-poor of the then village of
                        Passaicwas a tall, thin man, with snow-white hair and a smooth, gaunt,
                        gloomy face and the best funeral air I have ever seen. Edna has long since
                        forgotten him; she has an admirable ability absolutely to forget anything
                        she may for whatever reason deem it inconvenient to remember.  What an aid to conscience is such a quality!
                        But I have not forgotten old Weeping Willy Wheatlands, and I shall not
                        forget him. It was he who loaned me my first capital, the one that But I
                        must not anticipate.
                    In those days Passaic was a lowly and a dreary village. Its best was cheap
                        enough; its poorest was wretchedly squalid. The "seat" of
                        the Lorings and the "seat" of the Wheatlands stood side by
                        side on the mosquito beset banks of the rivertwo dingy frame cottages, a
                        story and a half in height, two rooms deep. We Lorings had no money, for my
                        father was an honest, innocent soul with a taste for talking what he thought
                        was politics, though in fact he knew no more of the realities of politics,
                        the game of pull Dick pull Devil for licenses to fleece a "free,
                        proud and intelligent people" he knew no more of that reality
                        thanthan the next honest soul you may hear driveling on that same subject.
                        We had no money, but "Weeping Willie" had plentyand saved
                        it, blessings on him! I hate to think where I should be now, if he
                        hadn't hoarded! So, while our straightened way of living was
                        compulsory, that of the Wheatlands was not. But this is unimportant; the
                        main point is both families lived in the same humble way.
                    If I thought "gentle reader" had patience and real
                        imaginationand, yes, the real poetic instinctI should give her an inventory
                        of the furniture of those two cottages, and of the meager and patched
                        draperies of the two Monday wash lines, as my mother and Edna's
                        motherand Edna, too. when she grew big enough 
                        decorated them, the while shrieking gossip back and forth across the low and
                        battered board fence. But I shall not linger. It is as well. Those memories
                        make me sadput a choke in my throat and a mist before my eyes. Why? If you
                        can't guess, I could not in spoiling ten reams of paper explain it
                        to you. One detail only, and I shall hasten on. Both families lived humbly,
                        but we not quite so humbly as the Wheatlands family, because my mother was a
                        woman of some neatness and energy while Ma Wheatlands was at or below the
                        do-easy, slattern human average. We had our regular
                        Saturday bathin the wash tub. We did not ever eat off the
                        stove. And while we were patched we were rarely ragged.
                    In those dayseven in those daysEdna was a "scrapper." They
                        call it an "energetic and resolute personality" now; it
                        was called "scrappy" then, and scrappy it was. When I
                        would be chopping wood or lugging in coal, so occupied that I did not dare
                        pause, she would sit on the fence in her faded blue-dotted calico, and how
                        she would give it to me! She knew how to say the thing that made me wild
                        with the rage a child is ashamed to show. Yes, she loved to tease me,
                        perhaps really, I hopebecause she knew I, in the bottom of my heart, loved
                        to be teased by her, to be noticed in any way. And mighty pretty she looked
                        then, with her mop of yellowish brown hair and her big golden brown eyes and
                        her little face, whose every feature was tilted to the angle that gives
                        precisely the most fascinating expression of pretty pertness, of precocious
                        intelligence, or of devil-may-care audacity. She has always been a  pretty woman, has Edna, and always will be,
                        even in old age, I fancy. Her beauty, like her health, like that strong,
                        supple body of hers, was built to last. What is the matter with the
                        generations coming forward now? Why do they bloom only to wither? What has
                        sapped their endurance? Are they brought up too soft? Is it the food? Is it
                        the worn-out parents? Why am I, at forty, younger in looks and in strength
                        and in taste for life than the youths of thirty? Why is Edna, not five years
                        my junior, more attractive physically than girls of twenty-five or younger?
                    But she was only eight or nine at the time of which I am writing. And she was
                        fond of me thenreally fond of me, though she denied it furiously when the
                        other children taunted, and though she was always jeering at me, calling me
                        awkward and homely. I don't think I was notably either the one or
                        the other, but for her to say so tended to throw the teasers off the track
                        and also kept me in humble subjection. I knew she cared, because when we
                        played kissing games she would never call me out, would call out every other
                        boy, but if I called any other girl she would sulk and treat me as badly as
                        she knew how. Also, while she had nothing but taunts and sarcasms for me she
                        was always to be found in the Wheatlands' back yard near the fence
                        or on it whenever I was doing chores in our back yard.
                    After two years in the High School I went to work in the railway office as a
                        sort of assistant freight clerk. She kept on at school, went through the
                        High School, graduated in a white dress with blue ribbons, and then sat down
                        to wait for a husband. Her father and mother 
                        were sensible people. Heaven knows they had led a hard enough life to have
                        good sense driven into them. But the traditionthe lady-traditionwas too
                        strong for them. They were not ashamed to work, themselves. They would have
                        been both ashamed and angry had it been suggested to them that their two
                        boys should become idlers. But they never thought of putting their daughter
                        to work at anything. After she graduated and became a young lady, she was
                        not compelledwould hardly have been permittedto do housework or sewing. You
                        have seen the potted flower in the miserable tenement windowthe
                        representative of the life that neither toils nor spins, but simply exists
                        in idle beauty. That potted bloom concentrates all the dreams, all the
                        romantic and poetic fancies of the tenement family. I suppose Edna was some
                        such treasured exotic possession to those toil-twisted old parents of hers.
                        They wanted a flower in the house.
                    Well, they had it. She certainly was a lovely girl, far too lovely to be
                        spoiled by work. And if ever there was a scratch or a stain on those
                        beautiful white hands of hers, it assuredly was not made by toil. She took
                        music lessons Music lessons! How much of the ridiculous, pathetic gropings
                        after culture is packed into those two words. Beyond question, everyone
                        ought to know something about music; we should all know something about
                        everything, especially about the things that peculiarly stand for
                        civilizationscience and art, literature and the drama. But how foolishly we
                        are set at it! Instead of learning to understand and to appreciate music, we
                        are taught to "beat the box" in a feeble, clumsy fashion,
                             or to screech or whine when we have no
                        voice worth the price of a single lesson. Edna took I don't how
                        many lessons a week for I don't know how many years. She learned
                        nothing about music. She merely learned to strum on the piano. But, after
                        all, the lessons attained their real object. They made Edna's
                        parents and Edna herself and all the neighbors feel that she was indeed a
                        lady. She could not sew. She could not cook. She hadn't any
                        knowledge worth mention of any practical thingtherefore, had no knowledge at
                        all; for, unless knowledge is firmly based upon and in the practical, it is
                        not knowledge but that worst form of ignorance, misinformation. She
                        didn't know a thing that would help her as woman, wife, or mother.
                        But she could play the piano!
                    Some day some one will write something true on the subject of education. You
                        remember the story of the girl from Lapland who applied for a place as
                        servant in New York, and when they asked her what she could do, she said,
                        "I can milk the reindeer."
                    I never hear the word education that I don't think of that girl. One
                        half of the time spent at school, to estimate moderately, and nine tenths of
                        the time spent in college class rooms is given to things about as valuable
                        to a citizen of this world as the Lap girl's
                        "education" to a New York domestic. If anyone tells you
                        that those valueless things are culture, tell him that only an ignorance
                        still becalmed in the dense medival fog would talk such twaddle; tell him
                        that science has taught us what common sense has always shown, that there is
                        no beauty divorced from use, that beauty is simply the  perfect adaptation of the thing to be used to the purpose for
                        which it is to be used. I am a business man, not a smug, shallow-pated
                        failure teaching in an antiquated college. I abhor the word culture, as I
                        abhor the word gentleman or the word lady, because of the company into which
                        it has fallen. So, while I eagerly disclaim any taint of
                        "culture," I insist that I know what I'm talking
                        about when I talk of education. And if I had not been too good-natured, my
                        girl But I must keep to the story. "Gentle reader" wants a
                        story; heor shedoes not want to try to think.
                    It was pleasant to my ignorant ears to hear Edna playing sonatas and
                        classical barcaroles and dead marches and all manner of loud and difficult
                        pieces. Such sounds, issuing from the humbleand not too cleanWheatlands
                        house gave it an atmosphere of aristocracy, put tone into the whole
                        neighborhood, elevated the Wheatlands family like a paper collar on the
                        calico shirt of a farm hand. If we look at ourselves rightly, we poor
                        smattering seekers after a little showy knowledge of one kind or anothera
                        dibble of French, a dabble of Latin or Greek, a sputter of woozy so-called
                        philosophyhow like the paper-collared farm hand we are, how like the
                        Hottentot chief with a plug hat atop his naked brown body.
                    But Edna pleased me, fully as much as she pleased herself, and that is saying
                        a great deal. I wouldn't have had her changed in the smallest
                        particular. I was even glad she could get rid of her frecklesfascinating
                        little beauty spots sprinkled upon her tip-tilted little nose!
                    
                    She was not so fond of me in those days. I had a rival. I am leaning back and
                        laughing as I think of him. Charley Putney! He was clerk in a largish dry
                        goods store. He is still a clerk there, I believe, and no doubt is still the
                        same cheaply scented, heavily pomatumed clerkly swell he was in the days
                        when I feared and hated him. The store used to close at six
                        o'clock. About seven of summer evenings Charley would issue forth
                        from his home to set the hearts of the girls to fluttering. They were all
                        out, waiting. Down the street he would come with his hat set a little back
                        to show the beautiful shine and part and roach of his hair. The air would
                        become delicious (!) with bergamot, occasionally varied by German cologne or
                        lemon verbena. What a jaunty, gay tie! What an elegant suit! And he wore a
                        big seal ring, reputed to be real goldand such lively socks! Down the street
                        came Charley, all the girls palpitant. At which stoop or front gate would he
                        stop?
                    Oftenonly too oftenit was at the front gate next ours. How I hated him!
                    And the cap of the joke is that Edna nearly married him. In this land where
                        the social stairs are crowded like Jacob's Ladder with throngs
                        ascending and descending, what a history it would make if the grown men and
                        women of any generation should tell whom they almost
                        married!
                    Yes, Edna came very near to marrying him. She was a lady. She did not know
                        exactly what that meant. The high-life novels she read left her hazy on the
                        subject, because to understand any given thing we must  have knowledge that enables us to connect it with the things we
                        already know. A snowball would be an unfathomable mystery to a savage living
                        in an equatorial plain. A matter of politics or finance or sociology or real
                        art, real literature, real philosophy, seems dull and meaningless to a woman
                        or to the average mutton-brained man. But if you span the gap between
                        knowledge of any subject and a woman's or a man's
                        ignorance of that subject with however slender threads of connecting
                        knowledge, she or he can at once bridge it and begin to reap the new fields.
                        Edna could not find any thread whatever for the gap between herself and that
                        fairy land of high life the novels told her about. In those days there was
                        no high life in Passaic. I suppose there is nowor, at least, Passaic thinks
                        there isand in purely imaginary matters the delusion of possession is equal
                        to, even better than, possession itself. So, with no high life to use as a
                        measure, with only the instinct that her white smooth hands and her dresses
                        modeled on the latest Paris fashions as illustrated in the monthly
                        "Lady Book," and her music lessons, her taste for what she
                        then regarded as literaturewith only her instinct that all these hallmarks
                        must stamp her twenty-four carat lady, she had to look about her for a
                        matching gentleman. And there was Charley, the one person within vision who
                        suggested the superb heroes of the high-life novels. I will say to the
                        credit of her good taste that she had her doubts about Charley. Indeed, if
                        his sweet smell and his smooth love-makingCharley excelled as a love maker,
                        being the born ladies' manif the man, or, rather, the boy, himself
                        had not won her  heart, she would soon have
                        tired of him and would have suspected his genuineness as a truly gentleman.
                        But she fell in love with him.
                    There was a long time during which I thought the reason she returned to meor,
                        rather, let me return to herwas because she fell out of love with him. Then
                        there was a still longer time when I thought the reason was the fact that
                        the very Saturday I got a raise to fourteen a week, he fell from twelve to
                        eight. But latterly I have known the truth. How many of us know the truth,
                        the down-at-the-bottom, absolute truth, about why she married us instead of
                        the other fellow? Very few, I guessor we'd be puffing our crops and
                        flirting our feathers less cantily. She took up with me again because he
                        dropped her. It was he that saved her, not she or I. Only a few months ago,
                        her old mother, doddering on in senility, with memory dead except for early
                        happenings, and these fresh and vivid, said: "And when I think how
                        nigh Edny come to marryin' up with that there loud-smelling dude of
                        a Charley Putney! If he hadn't 'a give her the go by,
                        she'd sure 'a made a fool of herselfa wantin' me
                        and her paw to offer him money and a job in the undertakin' store,
                        to git him back. Lawsy me! What a narrer squeak fur Princess Edny!"
                    Be patient, gentle reader! You shall soon be reading things that will efface
                        the coarse impression my old mother-in-law's language and all these
                        franknesses about our beginnings must have made upon your refined and
                        cultured nature. Swallow a caramel and be patient. But don't skip
                        these pages. If you should, you would  miss the
                        stimulating effect of contrast, not to speak of other benefits which I,
                        probably vainly, hope to confer upon you.
                    She didn't love me. Looking back, I see that for many months she
                        found it difficult to endure me. But it was necessary that she carry offwith
                        the neighborhood rather than with meher pretense of having cast off Charley
                        because she preferred me. We can do wonders in the way of concealing wounded
                        pride; we can do equal wonders in the way of preserving a reputation for
                        unbroken victory. And I believe she honestly liked me. Perhaps she liked me
                        even more than she liked her aromatic Charley; for, it by no means follows
                        that we like best where we love most. I am loth to believeI do not
                        believethat at so early an age, not quite seventeen, she could have received
                        my caresses and returned them with plausibility enough to deceive me, unless
                        she had genuinely liked me.
                    And what a lucky fellow I thought myself! And how I patronized the perfumed
                        man. And what a thrashing I gave himpoor, harmless, witless creature! when I
                        heard of his boastings that he had dropped Edna Wheatlands because he found
                        Sally Simpson prettier and more cultured!
                    
                    I must have been a railway man born. At twenty-twono, six months after my
                        majorityI was jumped into a head clerkship at twelve hundred a year. Big pay
                        for a youngster in those days; not so bad for a youngster even in these
                        inflated years. When I brought Edna the news I think she began to love me.
                        To her that salary was a halo, a golden halo round memade  me seem a superior person. She had long
                        thought highly of my business abilities, for she was shrewd and had listened
                        when the older people talked, and they were all for me as the likeliest
                        young man of the neighborhood.
                    "I've had another raise," said I carelessly. We
                        were sitting on her front porch, she upon the top step, I two steps down.
                    "Another!" she said. "Why, the last was only two
                        months ago."
                    "Yes, they've pushed me up to twelve hundred a yeara little
                        more, for it's twenty-five per."
                    "Gee!" she exclaimed, and I can see her pretty face nowall
                        aglow, beaming a reverent admiration upon me.
                    I rather thought I deserved it. But it has ever been one of my vanities to
                        pretend to take my successes as matters of course, and even to depreciate
                        them. They say the English invariably win in diplomacy because they act
                        dissatisfied with what they get, never grumbling so sourly as when they
                        capture the whole hog. I can believe it. That has been my policy, and it has
                        worked rather well. Still, any policy works well if the man has the gift for
                        success. "Twenty-five per," I repeated, to impress it
                        still more deeply upon her and to revel in the thrilling words.
                        "Before I get through I'll make them pay me what
                        I'm worth."
                    "Do you think you'll ever be making more than
                        that?" exclaimed she, wonderingly.
                    "I'll be getting two thousand some day," said I,
                        far more confidently than I felt.
                    "OhGodfrey!" she said softly.
                    
                    And as I looked at her I for the first time felt a certain peculiar thrill
                        that comes only when the soul of the woman a man loves rushes forth to cling
                        to his soul. In my life I have never hadand never shall havea happier
                        moment.
                    Once more patience, gentle reader! I know this bit of sordidnessthis glow of
                        sentiment upon a vulgar material incidentdisgusts your delicate soul. I am
                        aware that you have a proper contempt for all the coarse details of life.
                        You would not be gentle reader if you hadn't. You
                        would be a plain man or woman, living busily and usefully, and making people
                        happy in the plain ways in which the human animal finds happiness. You would
                        not be devoting your days to making soul-food out of idealistic moonshine
                        and dreaming of ways to dazzle yourself and your acquaintances into thinking
                        you a superior person.
                    "Do you know," said my pretty Edna, advancing her hand at
                        least half way toward meeting mine, "do you know, I've had
                        an instinct, a presentiment of this? I was dreaming it when I woke up this
                        morning."
                    I've observed that every woman in her effort to prove herself
                        "not like other girls" pretends to some occult or other
                        equally supranatural quality. One dreams dreams. Another gets spirit
                        messages. A third has seen ghosts. Another has a foot which sculptors have
                        longed to model. A fifth has a note in her voice which the throat
                        specialists pronounce unique in the human animal and occurring only in
                        certain rare birds and Sarah Bernhardt. I met one not long ago who had
                        several too many or too few skins, I forget which, and  as a result was endowed with I cannot recall what nervous
                        qualities quite peculiar to herself, and somehow most valuable and
                        fascinating. In that early stage of her career my Edna was
                        "hipped" upon a rather commonplace personal
                        characteristicthe notion that she had premonitions, was a sort of seeress or
                        prophetess. Later she dropped it for one less tiresome and overworked. But I
                        recall that even in that time of my deepest infatuation I wished to hear as
                        little as possible about the occult. Of all the shallow, foggy fakes that
                        attract ignorant and miseducated people the occult is the most inexcusable
                        and boring. A great many people, otherwise apparently rather sensible, seem
                        honestly to believe in it. But, being sensible, they don't have
                        anything to do with it. They treat it as practical men treat the idiotic in
                        the creeds and the impossible in the moral codes of the churches to which
                        they belongthat is, they assent and proceed to dismiss and to forget.
                    However, I was not much impressed by Edna's attempt to dazzle me
                        with her skill as a Sibyl. But I was deeply impressed by the awe-inspiring
                        softness and shapeliness of her hand lying prisoner in mine. And I was moved
                        to the uttermost by the kisses and embraces we exchanged in the gathering
                        dusk. "I love you," she murmured into my ecstatic ear.
                        "You are so different from the other men round here."
                    I dilated with pride.
                    "So far ahead of them in every way."
                    "Ahead of Charley Putney?" said I, jocose but jealous
                        withal.
                    She laughed with a delightful look of contemptuous  scorn in her cute face. "Oh, he!" she scoffed. "He's getting only eight
                        a week, and he'll never get any more."
                    "Not if his boss has sense," said I, thinking myself
                        judicial. "But let's talk about ourselves. We can be
                        married now."
                    I advanced this timidly, for being a truly-in-love lover I was a little
                        afraid of her, a little uncertain of this priceless treasure. But she
                        answered promptly, "Yes, I was thinking of that."
                    "Let's do it right away," proposed I.
                    "Oh, not for several weeks. It wouldn't be
                        proper."
                    "Why not?"
                    She couldn't explain. She only knew that there was something
                        indecent about haste in such matters, that the procedure must be slow and
                        orderly and stately. "We'll marry the first of next
                        month," she finally decided, and I joyfully acquiesced.
                    Some of my readersboth of the gentle and of the other kindmay be surprised
                        that a girl of seventeen should be so self-assured, so independent. They
                        must remember that she was a daughter of the people; and among the people a
                        girl of seventeen was, and I suppose still is, ready for marriage, ready and
                        resolved to decide all important matters for herself. At seventeen Edna, in
                        self-poise and in experience, judgment and all the other mature qualities,
                        was the equal of the carefully sheltered girl of twenty-five or more. She
                        may have been brought up a lady, may have been in all essential ways as
                        useless as the most admired of that weariful and worthless class. But the
                        very nature of her surroundings,  in that
                        simple household and that simple community, had given her a certain
                        practical education. And I may say here that to it she owes all she is
                        today. Do not forget this, gentle reader, as you read about her and as she
                        dazzles you. As you look at the gorgeous hardy rose do not forget that such
                        spring only from the soil, develop only in the open.
                    That very evening we began to look for a home. As soon as we were outside her
                        front gate she turned in the direction of the better part of the town. Nor
                        did she pause or so much as glance at a house until we were clear of the
                        neighborhood in which we had always lived, and were among houses much
                        superior. I admired, and I still admire, this significant move of hers. It
                        was the gesture of progress, of ambition. It was splendidly American. I
                        myself should have been content to settle down near our fathers and mothers,
                        among the people we knew. I should no doubt have been better satisfied to
                        keep up the mode of living to which we had been used all our lives. The time
                        would have come when I should have reached out for more comfort and for
                        luxury. But it was natural that she should develop in this direction before
                        I did. She had read her novels and her magazines, had the cultured
                        woman's innate fondness for dress and show, had had nothing but
                        those kinds of things to think about; I had been too busy trying to make
                        money to have any time for getting ideas about spending it.
                    No; while her motive in seeking better things than we had known was in the
                        main a vanity and a sham, her action had as much initial good in it as if
                        her motive  had been sensible and helpful. And
                        back of the motive lay an instinct for getting up in the world that has been
                        the redeeming and preserving trait in her character. It was this instinct
                        that ought to have made her the fit wife for an ambitious and advancing man.
                        You will presently see how this fine and useful instinct was perverted by
                        vanity and false education and the pernicious example of other women.
                    "The rents are much higher in this neighborhood," said I,
                        with a doubtful but admiring look round at the pretty houses and their
                        well-ordered grounds.
                    "Of course," said she. "But maybe we can find
                        smething. Anyway, it won't do any harm to look."
                    "No, indeed," I assented, for I liked the idea myself. This
                        better neighborhood looked more like her than her own,
                        seemed to her lover's eyes exactly suited to her beauty and her
                        stylishnessfor the "Lady Book" was teaching her to make
                        herself far more attractive to the eye than were the other girls over in our
                        part of town. I still puzzle at why Charley Putney gave her up; the only
                        plausible theory seems to be that she was so sick in love with him that she
                        wearied him. The most attractive girl in the world, if she dotes on a young
                        man too ardently, will turn his stomach, and alarm his delicate sense of
                        feminine propriety.
                    As we walked on, she with an elate and proud air, she said: "How
                        different it smells over here!"
                    At first I didn't understand what she meant. But, as I thought of
                        her remark, the meaning came. And I believe that was the beginning of my
                        dissatisfaction with what I had all my life had in the way of surroundings.
                             I have since observed that the sense of
                        smell is blunt, is almost latent, in people of the lower orders, and that it
                        becomes more acute and more sensitive as we ascend in the social scale. Up
                        to that time my ambition to rise had been rather indefinitea desire to make
                        money which everyone seemed to think was the highest aim in lifeand also an
                        instinct to beat the other fellows working with me. Now it became definite.
                        I began to smell. I wanted to get away from unpleasant smells. I do not mean
                        that this was a resolution, all in the twinkling of an eye. I simply mean
                        that, as everything must have a beginning, that remark of hers was for me
                        the beginning of a long and slow but steady process of what may be called
                        civilizing.
                    Presently she said: "If we couldn't afford a house, we
                        might take one of the flats."
                    "But I'm afraid you'd be lonesome, away off from
                        everybody we know."
                    She tossed her head. "A good lonesome," said she.
                        "I'm tired of common people. I was
                        reading about reincarnations the other day."
                    "Good Lord!" laughed I. "What are they?"
                    She explainedas well as she couldprobably as well as anybody could. I admired
                        her learning but the thing itself did not interest me. "I guess
                        there must be something in it," she went on. "I'm
                        sure in a former life I was something a lot different from what I am
                        now."
                    "Oh, you're all right," I assured her, putting my
                        arm round her in the friendly darkness of a row of sidewalk elms.
                    When we had indulged in an interlude of love-making,  she returned to the original subject. "I wonder how
                        much rent we could afford to pay," said she.
                    "They say the rent ought never to be more per month than the income
                        is per week."
                    "Then we could pay twenty-five a month."
                    That seemed to me a lot to payand, indeed, it was. But she did not inherit
                        Weeping Willie's tightness; and she had never had money to spend or
                        any training in either making or spending money. That is to say, she was
                        precisely as ignorant of the main business of life as is the rest of
                        American womanhood under our ridiculous system of education. So, twenty-five
                        dollars a month rent meant nothing to her. "We can't do
                        anything to-night," said she. "But I've got my
                        days free, and I'll look at different places, and when I find
                        several to choose from we can come in the evening or on Sunday and
                        decide."
                    This suited me exactly. We dismissed the matter, hunted out a shady nook, and
                        sat down to enjoy ourselves after the manner of young lovers on a fine
                        night. Never before had she given herself freely to love. I know now it was
                        because never before had she loved me. I was deliriously happy that night,
                        and I am sure she was too. She no less than I had the ardent temperament
                        that goes with the ambitious nature; and now that she was idealizing me into
                        the man who could lead her to the fairy lands she dreamed of, she gave me
                        her whole heart.
                    It was the beginning of what was beyond question the happiest period of both
                        our lives. I have a dim old photograph of us two taken about that time. At a
                        glance you see it is the picture of two young people of  the working classtwo green, unformed creatures, badly dressed
                        and gawkily self-conscious. But there is a look in her faceand in mine To be
                        quite honest, I'm glad I don't look like that now. I
                        wouldn't go back if I could. Nevertheless How we loved each other!
                        and how happy we were!
                    I feel that I weary you, gentle reader. There is in my sentiment too much
                        about wages and flat rents and the smells that come from people who work
                        hard and live in poor places and eat badly cooked strong food. But that is
                        not my fault. It is life. And if you believe that your and your
                        romancers' tawdry imaginings are better than lifewell, you may not
                        be so wise or so exalted as you fancy.
                    The upshot of our inspecting places to live and haggling over prices was that
                        we took a flat in the best quarter of Passaicthe top and in those
                        elevatorless days the cheapest flat in the house. We were to pay forty
                        dollars a montha stiff rent that caused excitement in our neighborhood and
                        set my mother and her father to denouncing us as a pair of fools bent upon
                        ruin. I thought so, myself. But I could have denied Edna nothing at that
                        time, and I made up my mind that by working harder than ever at the railway
                        office I would compel another raise. When I told my mother about this secret
                        resolve of mine, she said:
                    "If you do get more money, Godfrey, don't tell Edna.
                        She's a fool. She'll keep your nose to the grindstone all
                        your life if you ain't careful. It takes a better money-maker than
                        you're likely to be to hold up against that kind of a
                        woman."
                    
                    "Oh, she's like all girls," said I.
                    "That's just it," replied my mother.
                        "That's why I ain't got no use for women. Look
                        what poor managers they are. Look how they idle and waste and run into
                        debt."
                    "But there's a lot to be said against the men, too.
                        Saloons, for instance."
                    "And talkin' politics with loafers," said my
                        father's wife bitterly.
                    "I guess the trouble with men and women is they're too
                        human," said I, who had inherited something of the philosopher from
                        my father. "And, mother, a man's got to get marriedand
                        he's got to marry a woman."
                    "Yes, I suppose he has," she grudgingly assented.
                        "Mighty poor providers most of the men is, and mighty poor use the
                        women make of what little the men brings home. But about you and Edny
                        Wheatlands You ought to do better'n her, Godfrey. You're
                        caught by her looks and her style and her education. None of them things
                        makes a good wife."
                    "I certainly wouldn't marry a girl that didn't
                        have themall three."
                    "But there's something more," insisted mother.
                    "One woman can't have everything," said I.
                    "No, but she can have what I meanand she's not much good to
                        a man without it. If you're set on marrying her wait till you're ready, anyhow. She never
                        will be."
                    "What do you mean, mother?"
                    "Wait till you've got money in the savings bank. Wait till
                        you've got used to having money. Then maybe  you'll be able to put a bit on a spendthrift wife even
                        if you are crazy about her. You're making a wrong start with her,
                        Godfrey. You're giving her the upper hand, and that's bad
                        for women like hermighty bad."
                    It was from my mother that I get my ability at business. She and I often had
                        sensible talks, and her advice started me right in the railroad office and
                        kept me right until I knew my way. So I did not become angry at her plain
                        speaking, but appreciated its good sense, even though I thought her
                        prejudiced against my Edna. However, I had not the least impulse to put off
                        the marriage. My one wish was to hasten it. Never before or since was time
                        so leisurely. But the day dragged itself up at last, and we were married in
                        church, at what seemed to us then enormous expense. There was a dinner
                        afterward at which everyone ate and drank too mucha coarse and common scene
                        which I will spare gentle reader. Edna and I went up to New York City for a
                        Friday to Monday honeymoon. But we were back to spend Sunday night in our
                        grand forty-dollar flat. On Monday morning I went to work againa married
                        man, an important person in the community.
                    Never has any height I have attained or seen since equalled the grandeur of
                        that forty-dollar flat. My common sense tells me that it was a small and
                        poor affair. I remember, for example, that the bathroom was hardly big
                        enough to turn round in. I recall that I have sat by the window in the
                        parlor and without rising have reached a paper on a table at the other end
                        of the room. But these hard facts in no way interfere with or correct the
                        flat as my imagination persists in  picturing
                        it. What vistas of rooms!what high ceilingswhat woodworkand plumbing!and
                        what magnificent furniture! Edna's father, in a moment of
                        generosity, told her he would pay for the outfitting of the household. And
                        being in the undertaking business he could get discounts on furniture and
                        even on kitchen utensils. Edna did the selecting. I thought everything
                        wonderful and, as I have said, my imagination refuses to recreate the place
                        as it actually was. But I recall that there was a brave show of red and of
                        plush, and we all know what that means. Whether her "Lady
                        Book" had miseducated her or her untrained eyes, excited by the
                        gaudiness she saw when she went shopping, had beguiled her from the counsels
                        of the "Lady Book," I do not know. But I am sure, as I
                        recall red and plush, that our first home was the typical horror inhabited
                        by the extravagant working-class family.
                    No matter. There we were in Arcadia. For a time her restless soaring fancy,
                        wearied perhaps by its audacious flight to this lofty perch of red and plush
                        and forty dollars a month, folded its wings and was content. For a time her
                        pride and satisfaction in the luxurious newness overcame her distaste and
                        disdain and moved her to keep things spotless. I recall the perfume of
                        cleanness that used to delight my nostrils at my evening homecoming, and
                        then the intoxicating perfume of Edna herselfthe aroma of healthy young
                        feminine beauty. We loved each other, simply, passionately, in the
                        old-fashioned way. With the growth of intelligence, with the realization on
                        the part of men that her keep is a large part of the reason in the
                        woman's mind if not in  her heart for
                        marrying and loving, there has come a decline and decay of the former
                        reverence and awe of man toward woman. Also, the men nowadays know more
                        about the mystery of woman, know everything about it, where not so many
                        years ago a pure woman was to a man a real religious mystery. Her physical
                        being, the clothes she wore underneath, the supposedly sweet and clean
                        thoughts, nobler than his, that dwelt in the temple of her soulthese things
                        surrounded a girl with an atmosphere of thrilling enigma for the youth who
                        won from her lips and from the church the right to explore.
                    All that has passed, or almost passed. I am one of those who believe that
                        what has come, or, rather, is coming, to take its place is better, finer,
                        nobler. But the old order had its charm. What a charm for me! who had never
                        known any woman well, who had dreamed of her passionately but purely and
                        respectfully. There was much of painof shyness, fear of offending her higher
                        nature, uneasiness lest I should be condemned and cast outin those early
                        days of married life. But it was a sweet sort of pain. And when we began to
                        understand each otherto be human, though still on our best behaviorwhen we
                        found that we were congenial, were happy together in ways undreamed of, life
                        seemed to be paying not like the bankrupt it usually is when the time for
                        redeeming its promises comes but like a benevolent prodigal, like a lottery
                        whose numbers all draw capital prizes. I admit the truth of much the
                        pessimists have to say against Life. But one thing I must grant it. When in
                        its rare generous moments it  relents, it does
                        know how to play the host at the feasthow to spread the board, how to fill
                        the flagons and to keep them filled, how to scatter the wreaths and the
                        garlands, how to select the singers and the dancers who help the banqueters
                        make merry. When I remember my honeymoon, I almost forgive you, Life, for
                        the shabby tricks you have played me.
                    Now I can conceive a honeymoon that would last on and on, not in the glory
                        and feverish joy of its first period, but in a substantial and satisfying
                        human happiness. But not a honeymoon with a wife who is no more fitted to be
                        a wife than the office boy is fitted to step in and take the
                        president's job. Patience, gentle reader! I know how this sudden
                        shriek of discord across the amorous strains of the honeymoon music must
                        have jarred your nerves. But be patient and I will explain.
                    Except ourselves, every other family in the house, in the neighborhood, had
                        at least one servant. We had none. If Edna had been at all economical we
                        might have kept a cook and pinched along. But Edna spent carelessly all the
                        money I gave her, and I gave her all there was. A large part of it went for
                        finery for her personal adornment, trash of which she soon tiredmuch of it
                        she disliked as soon as it came home and she tried it on without the
                        saleslady to flatter and confuse. Iin a good-natured way, for I really felt
                        perfectly good-humored about itremonstrated with her for letting everybody
                        rob her, for getting so little for her money. She took high ground. Such
                        things were beneath her attention. If I had wanted a wife of that dull,
                        pinch-penny kind I'd certainly not have married  her, a talented, educated woman, bent on
                        improving her mind and her position in the world. And that seemed
                        reasonable. Still, the money was going, the bills were piling up, and I did
                        not know what to do.
                    Andshe did the cooking. I think I have already said that she had not learned
                        to cook. How she and her mother expected her to get along as a poor
                        clerk's wife I can't imagine. The worst of it was, she
                        believed she could cook. That is the way with women. They look down on
                        housekeeping, on the practical side of life, as too coarse and low to be
                        worthy their attention. They say all that sort of thing is easy, is like the
                        toil of a day laborer. They say anybody could do it. And they really believe
                        so. Men, no matter how high their position, weary and bore themselves every
                        day, because they must, with routine tasks beside which dishwashing has
                        charm and variety. Yet women shirk their proper and necessary share of
                        life's burden, pretending that it is beneath them.
                    Edna, typical woman, thought she could cook and keep house because she, so
                        superior, could certainly do inferior work if she chose. But after that
                        first brief spurt of enthusiasm, of daily conference with the "Lady
                        Book's Complete Housekeeper's Guide," the flat
                        was badly keptwas really horribly keptwas worse than either her home or mine
                        before we had been living there many months. It took on much the same odor.
                        It looked worse, as tawdry finery, when mussy and dirty, is more repulsive
                        than a plain toilet gone back. I did not especially mind that. But her
                        cooking I had not been accustomed to anything especially good in the  way of cooking. Mother was the old-fashioned
                        fryer, and you know those fryers always served the vegetables soggy. I could
                        have eaten exceedingly poor stuff without complaining or feeling like
                        complaining. But the stuff she was soon flinging angrily upon the slovenly
                        table I could not eat. She ate it, enough of it to keep alive, and it
                        didn't seem to do her any harm. How many women have you known who
                        were judges of things to eat? Do you understand how women continue to eat
                        the messes they put into their pretty mouths, and keep alive?
                    I could not eat Edna's cooking. I ate bread, cold meats and the like
                        from the delicatessen shop. When the meal happened to be of her own
                        preparing I dropped into the habit of slipping away after a pretense at
                        eating, to get breakfast or dinner or supper in a restaurantthe cheapest
                        kind of restaurant, but I ate there with relish. And never once did I murmur
                        to Edna. I loved her too well; also, I am by nature a tolerant,
                        even-tempered person, hating strife, avoiding the harsh word. In fact, my
                        timidity in that respect has been my chief weakness, has cost me dear again
                        and again. But
                    After ten months of married life Edna fell ill. All you married men will
                        prick up your ears at that. Why is it that bread winners somehow contrive to
                        keep on their feet most of the time, little though they know as to caring
                        for their health, reckless though they are in eating and drinking? Why is it
                        that married womenunless they have to workspend so much time in sick bed or
                        near it? They say we in America have more  than
                        nine times as many doctors proportionately to population as any other
                        country. The doctors live off of our womenour idle, overeating, lazy women
                        who will not work, who will not walk, who are always getting something the
                        matter with them. Of course the doctorsparasites upon parasitesfake up all
                        kinds of lies, many of them malicious slanders against the husbands, to
                        excuse their patients and to keep them patients. But what is the truth?
                    Edna, who read all the time she was not plotting to get acquainted with our
                        neighborsthey looked down upon us and wished to have nothing to do with
                        usEdna who ate quantities of candy between meals and ate at meals rich
                        things she bought of confectioners and bakersEdna fell ill and frightened me
                        almost out of my senses. I understand it now. But I did not understand then.
                        I believed, as do all ignorant people both the obviously ignorant and the
                        ignorant who pass for enlightenedI believed sickness to be a mysterious
                        accident, like earthquakes and lightning strokes, a hit-or-miss blow from
                        nowhere in particular. So I was all sympathy and terror.
                    She got well. She looked as well as ever. But she said she was not strong.
                        "And Godfrey, we simply have got to keep a girl. I've
                        borne up bravely. But I can't stand it any longer. You see for
                        yourself, the rough work and the strain of housekeeping are too much for
                        me."
                    "Very well," said I. The bills, including the
                        doctor's and drug bills, were piling up. We were more than a
                        thousand dollars in debt. But I said: "Very  well. You are right." We men do not realize that there
                        are two distinct and equal expressions of strength. The strength of bulk,
                        that is often deceptive in that it looks stronger than it is; the strength
                        of fiber, that is always deceptive in that it is stronger than it looks. In
                        a general way, man has the strength of bulk, woman the strength of fiber. So
                        man looks on woman's appearance of fragility and fancies her weak
                        and himself the stronger. I looked at Edna, and said: "Very well.
                        We must have a girl to help."
                    I shan't linger upon this part of my story. I am tempted to linger,
                        but, after all, it is the commonplace of American life, familiar to all,
                        though understood apparently by only a few. Why do more than ninety per cent
                        of our small business men fail? Why are the savings banks accounts of our
                        working classes a mere fraction of those of the working classes of other
                        countries? And so on, and so on. But I see your impatience, gentle reader,
                        with these matters so "inartistic." We sank deeper and
                        deeper in debt. Edna's health did not improve. The girl we hired
                        had lived with better class people; she despised us, shirked her work, and
                        Edna did not know how to manage her. If the head of the household is
                        incompetent and indifferent, a servant only aggravates the mess, and the
                        more servants the greater the mess. All Edna's interest was for her
                        music, her novels, her social advancement, and her dreams of being a grand
                        lady. These dreams had returned with increased power; they took complete
                        possession of her. They soured her disposition, made her irritable, usually
                        blue or cross, only at long intervals loving and sweet. No, perhaps  the dreams were not responsible.
                        Perhapsprobablythe real cause was the upset state of her health through the
                        absurd idle life she led. Idle and lonely. For she would not go with whom
                        she could, she could not go with whom she would.
                    "I'm sick of sitting alone," said she.
                        "No wonder I can't get well."
                    "Let's go back near the old folks," suggested I.
                        "Our friends won't come to see us in this part of the
                        town. They feel uncomfortable."
                    "I should think they would!" cried she. "And if
                        they came I'd see to it that they were so uncomfortable that they
                        would never come again."
                    I worked hard. My salary went up to fifteen hundred, to two thousand, to
                        twenty-five hundred. "Now," said Edna, "perhaps
                        you'll get hands that won't look like a laboring
                        man's. How can I hope to make nice friends when I've a
                        husband with broken finger nails?"
                    Our expenses continued to outrun my salary, but I was not especially worried,
                        for I began to realize that I had the money-making talent. Three children
                        were born; only the firstMargotlived. Looking back upon those six years of
                        our married life, I see after the first year only a confused repellent mess
                        of illness, nurses, death, doctors, quarrels with servants, untidy rooms and
                        clothes, slovenly, peevish wife, with myself watching it all in a dazed,
                        helpless way, thinking it must be the normal, natural order of domestic
                        lifewhich, indeed, it is in Americaand wondering where and how it was to
                        end.
                    I recall going home one afternoon late, to find Edna  yawning listlessly over some book in a magazine culture series.
                        Her hair hung every which way, her wrapper was torn and stained. Her skin
                        had the musty look that suggests unpleasant conditions both without and
                        within. Margot, dirty, pimply from too much candy, sat on the floor
                        squalling.
                    "Take the child away," cried Edna, at sight of me.
                        "I thought you'd never come. A little more of this and
                        I'll kill myself. What is there to live for, anyhow?"
                    Silent and depressed, I took Margot for a walk. And as I wandered along sadly
                        I was full of pity for Edna, and felt that somehow the blame was wholly mine
                        for the wretched plight of our home life.
                    When I was twenty-eight and Edna twenty-three, I had a series of rapid
                        promotions which landed me in New York in the position of assistant traffic
                        superintendent. My salary was eight thousand a year.
                    It so happenedcoincidence and nothing elsethat those eighteen months of quick
                        advance for me also marked a notable change in Edna.
                    There are some peoplemany peopleso obsessed of the know-it-all vanity that
                        they can learn nothing. Nor are all these people preachers, doctors, and
                        teachers, gentle reader. Then there is another species who pretend to know
                        all, who are chary of admitting to learning or needing to learn anything,
                        however small, yet who behind their pretense toil at improving themselves as
                        a hungry mouse gnaws at the wall of the cheese box. Of this species was
                        Edna. As she was fond of being mysterious about her thoughts and intentions,
                             she never told me what set her going again
                        after that long lethargy. Perhaps it was some woman whom she had a sudden
                        opportunity thoroughly to study, some woman who knew and lived the ideas
                        Edna had groped for in vain. Perhaps it was a novel she read or articles in
                        her magazines. It doesn't matter. I never asked her; I had learned
                        that wild horses would not drag from her a confession of where she had got
                        an idea, because such a confession would to her notion detract from her own
                        glory. However, the essential fact is that she suddenly roused and set to
                        work as she had never worked beforewent at it like a prospector who, after
                        toiling now hard and now discouragedly for years, strikes by accident a rich
                        vein of gold. Edna showed in every move that she not hoped, not believed,
                        but knew she was at last on the right track. She began to take care,
                        scrupulous care, of her personthe minute intelligent care she has ever since
                        been expanding and improving upon, has never since relaxed, and never will
                        relax. Also she began to plan and to move definitely in the matter of taking
                        care of Margotto look after her speech, her manners, her food, her person,
                        especially, perhaps, the last. Margot's teeth, Margot's
                        hair, Margot's walk, Margot's feet and hands and skin, the
                        shape of her nose, the set of her earsall these things she talked about and
                        fussed with as agitatedly as about her own self.
                    Edna became a crank on the subject of foodwhat is called a crank by the
                        unthinking, of whom, by the way, I was to my lasting regret one until a few
                        years ago. For a year or two her moves in this important direction were
                        blundering, intermittent, and not always 
                        successfulsmall wonder when there is really no reliable information to be
                        had, the scientists being uncertain and the doctors grossly ignorant. But
                        gradually she evolved and lived upon a "beauty diet."
                        Margot, of course, had to do the same. She took exercises morning and night,
                        took long and regular walks for the figure and skin and to put clearness and
                        brightness into the eyes. I believe she and Margot, with occasional lapses,
                        keep up their regimen to this day.
                    The house was as slattern as ever. The diet and comfort and health of the
                        family bread-winner were no more the subject of thought and care thanwell,
                        than the next husband's to his wife. She gave some
                        attentionintelligent and valuable attention, I cheerfully concedeto
                        improving my speech, manners, and dress. But beyond that the revolution
                        affected only her and her daughter. Them it affected amazingly. In three or
                        four months the change in their appearance was literally beyond belief.
                        Edna's beauty and style came backno, burst forth in an entirely new
                        kind of radiance and fascination. As for little Margot, she transformed from
                        homeliness, from the scrawny pasty look of bad health, from bad temper, into
                        as neat and sweet and pretty a little lady as could be found anywhere.
                    You, gentle reader, who are ever ready to slop over with some kind of
                        sentimentality because in your shallowness you regard sentimentalitynot
                        sentiment, for of that you know nothing, but sentimentalityas the most
                        important thing in the world, just as a child regards sickeningly rich cake
                        as the finest food in the worldyou, gentle reader, have already made up your
                             mind why Edna thus suddenly awakened,
                        or, rather, reawakened. "Aha," you are saying.
                        "Served him good and right. She found some one who appreciated
                        her." That guess of yours shows how little you know about Edna or
                        the Edna kind of human being. The people who do things in this world, except
                        in our foolish American novels, do because they must. They may do better or
                        worse under the influence of love, which is full as often a drag as a spur.
                        But they do not do because of love. I shall not argue
                        this. I shrink from gratuitously inviting an additional vial of wrath from
                        the ladies, who resent being told how worthless they in their indolence and
                        self-complacence permit themselves to be and how small a positive part they
                        now play in the world drama. I should have said nothing at all about the
                        matter, were it not that I wish to be strictly just to Edna, and she, being
                        wholly the ambitious woman, has always had and still has a deep horror of
                        scandal, intrigue, irregularity, and unconventionality of every sort.
                    It was necessary that we move to a place more convenient to my business
                        headquarters in New York City. A few weeks after I got the eight thousand a
                        year, Edna, and little Margot and I went to Brooklyn to livetook a really
                        charming house in Bedford Avenue, with large grounds around it. And once
                        more we were happy. It seemed to me we had started afresh.
                    And we had.
                
                
                
                    II
                    WHY did we go to Brooklyn?
                    By the time Edna and I had been married six years I learned many things about
                        her inmost self. I was not at all analytic or critical as to matters at
                        home. I used my intelligence in my own business; I assumed that my wife had
                        intelligence and that she used it in her businessher part of our joint
                        business. I believed the reason her part of it went badly was solely the
                        natural conditions of life beyond her control. A rail-road, a factory could
                        be run smoothly; a family and a household were different matters. And I
                        admired my wife as much as I loved her, and regarded her as a wonderful
                        woman, which, indeed, in certain respects she was.
                    But I had discovered in her several weaknesses. Some of these I knew; others
                        I did not permit myself to know that I knew. For example, I was perfectly
                        aware that she was not so truthful as one might be. But I did not let myself
                        admit that she was not always unconscious of her own deviations from the
                        truth. I had gained enough experience of life to learn that lying is
                        practically a universal weakness. So I did not especially mind it in her,
                        often found it amusing. I had not then waked up to the fact that, as a rule,
                        women systematically lie to their husbands about  big things and little, and that those women who profess to be too proud
                        to lie, do their lying by indirections, such as omissions, half truths, and
                        misleading silences. I am not criticising. Self-respect, real personal
                        pride, I have discovered in spite of the reading matter of all kinds about
                        the past, is a modern development, is still in embryo; and those of us who
                        profess to be the proudest are either the most ignorant of ourselves or the
                        most hypocritical.
                    But back to my acquaintance with my wife's character. When I told
                        her we should have to live nearer my work, my new work, than Passaic, she
                        promptly said:
                    "Let's go to Brooklyn."
                    "Why not to New York?" said I. "At least until I
                        get thoroughly trained, I want to be close to the office."
                    "But there's Margot," said she. "Margot
                        must have a place to play in. And we couldn't afford such a place
                        in New York. I can't let her run about the streets or go to public
                        schools. She'd pick up all sorts of low, coarse associates and
                        habits."
                    "Then let's go to some town oppositeacross the Hudson. If
                        we can't live on Manhattan Island, and I think you're
                        right about Margot, why, let's live where living is cheap. We ought
                        to be saving some money."
                    "I hate these Jersey towns," said Edna petulantly.
                        "I don't think Margot would get the right sort of social
                        influences in them."
                    As soon as she said "social influences" I should have
                        understood the whole business. The only person higher up on the social
                        ladder with whom Edna had been  able to scrape
                        intimate acquaintance in Passaic was a dowdy, tawdry chatterbox of a womanI
                        forget her namewho talked incessantly of the fashionable people she knew in
                        Brooklynhow she had gone there a stranger, had joined St. Mary's
                        Episcopal Church, and had at once become a social favorite, invited to
                        "the very best houses, my dear; such lovely homes," and
                        associated with "the most charming cultured people," and
                        so on and onyou know the rest of the humbug.
                    Now, one of the discoveries about my wife which I but half understood and
                        made light of, had been that she was mad, literally mad, on the subject of
                        social climbing. That means she was possessed of the disease imported into
                        this country from England, where it has raged for upward of half a
                        centurythe disease of being bent upon associating by hook or by crook with
                        people whose strongest desire seems to be not to associate with you. This
                        plague does not spare the male populationby no means. But it rages in and
                        ravages the female population almost to a woman. Our women take incidental
                        interest or no interest in their homes, in their husbands, in their
                        children. Their hearts are centered upon social position, and, of course,
                        the money-squandering necessary to attaining or to keeping it. The women who
                        are "in" spend all their time, whatever they may seem to
                        be about, in spitting upon and kicking the faces of the women who are trying
                        to get "in." The women who are trying to get
                        "in" spend their whole time in smiling and cringing and
                        imploring and plotting and, when it seems expedient, threatening and
                        compelling. Probe to the bottomif you have acuteness  enough, which you probably haven'tprobe to the bottom
                        any of the present-day activities of the American woman, I care not what it
                        may be, and you will discover the bacillus of social position biting merrily
                        away at her. If she goes to church or to a lecture or a concertif she goes
                        calling or stays at homeif she joins a suffrage movement or a tenement
                        reform propaganda, or refuses to joinif she dresses noisily or plainlyif she
                        shuns society, or seeks it, if she keeps house or leaves housekeeping to
                        servants, roaches, and miceif she cares for or neglects her childrenif she
                        pets her husband or displaces him with anotherno matter what she does, it is
                        at the behest of the poison flowing through brain and vein from the
                        social-position bacillus. She thinks by doing whatever she does she will
                        somehow make her position more brilliant or less insecure, or, having no
                        position at all, will gain one.
                    And the men? They pay the bills. Sometimes reluctantly, again eagerly;
                        sometimes ignorantly, again with full knowledge. The menthey pay the bills.
                    Now you know better far than I knew at the time why our happy little family
                        went to Brooklyn, took the house in Bedford Avenue which we could ill afford
                        if we were to save any money, and joined St. Mary's.
                    A couple of years after we were married my wife stopped me when I was telling
                        her what had happened at the office that day, as was my habit. "You
                        ought to leave all those things outside when you come home," said
                        she.
                    She had read this in a book somewhere, I guess. It was a new idea to me.
                        "Why should I?" said I.
                    
                    "Home is a place for happiness, with all the sordidness shut
                        out," explained she. "Those sordid things ought not to
                        touch our life together."
                    This sounded all right. "It seemed to me," stammered I,
                        apologetically, "that my career, the way I was getting on, that our
                        bread and butter Well, I thought we ought to kind of talk it over
                        together."
                    "Oh, I do sympathize with you," said, or rather quoted,
                        she. "But my place is to soothe and smooth away the cares of
                        business. You ought to try not to think of them at home."
                    "But what would I think about?" cried I,
                        much perplexed. "Why, my business is all I've got.
                        It's the most important thing in the world to us. It means our
                        living. At least that's the way the thing looks to me."
                    "You ought to think at home about the higher side of lifethe
                        intellectual side."
                    "But my business is my intellectual
                        side," I said. "And I can't for the life of me
                        see why thinking about things that don't advance us and
                        don't pay the bills is better than thinking about things that
                        do." It seemed to me that this looking on my business as something
                        to be left on the mud-scraper at the entrance indicated a false idea of it
                        got somewhere. So I added somewhat warmly: "There's
                        nothing low or bad about my business." And that was the truth at
                        the time.
                    "I don't know anything about it," replied she with
                        the gentle patience of her superior refinement and education. "And
                        I don't want to know. Those things don't interest me. And
                        I think, Godfrey"very sweetly, with her cheek against mine
                        "the reason husband  and wives often
                        grow apart is that the husband gives his whole mind to his business and
                        doesn't develop the higher side of his naturethe side that appeals
                        to a woman and satisfies her."
                    This touched my sense of humor mildly. "My father gives his mind to
                        one of those high sides," said I, "and we nearly starved
                        to death."
                    "Your father!" exclaimed she in derisive disgust.
                    "My father," said I cheerfully, "he does nothing
                        but read, talk, and think politics."
                    "Politics! That isn't on the higher side.
                        Women don't care anything about that."
                    "Well, what do they care about?" I inquired.
                    "About music and literatureand those artistic things."
                    "Oh, those things are all right," said I. "But I
                        don't see that it takes any more brains or any better brains to
                        paint a picture or sing a song or write a novel than it does to run a
                        railroador to plan one. If you'd try to understand business,
                        dear," I urged, "you might find it as interesting and as
                        intellectual as anything that doesn't help us make a living.
                        Anyhow, I've simply got to give my brains to my work. You go ahead
                        and attend to the higher side for the family. I'll stick to the job
                        that butters the bread and keeps the rain off."
                    She was patient with me, but I saw she didn't approve. However, as I
                        knew she'd approve still less if I failed to provide for her and
                        the two young onesthere were two at that timeI let the matter drop and held
                        to the common-sense course. I hadn't the faintest  notion of the seriousness of that little talk
                        of ours. And it was well I hadn't, for to have made her realize her
                        folly I'd have had to start in and educate heruneducate her and
                        then reducate her. I don't blame the women. I feel sorry for them.
                        When I hear them talk about the lack of sympathy between themselves and
                        American men, about the low ideals and the sordid talk the men indulge in,
                        how dull it is, how different from the inspiring, cultured talk a woman
                        hears among the aristocrats abroad, said aristocrats being supported in
                        helpless idleness throughout their useless lives, often by hard-earned
                        American dollarswhen I hear this pitiful balderdash from fair lips, I grow
                        sad. The American woman fancies she is growing away from the American man.
                        The truth is that while she is sitting still, playing with a lapful of the
                        artificial flowers of fake culture, like a poor doodle-wit, the American man
                        is growing away from her. She knows nothing of value; she can do nothing of
                        value. She has nothing to offer the American man but her physical charms,
                        for he has no time or taste for playing with artificial flowers when the
                        world's important work is to be done. So the poor creature grows
                        more isolated, more neglected, less respected, and less sought, except in a
                        physical way. And all the while she hugs to her bosom the delusion that she
                        is the great soul high sorrowful. The world moves; many are the penalties
                        for the nation or the race or the sex that does not move with it, or does
                        not move quickly enough. I feel sorry for the American womanunless she has a
                        father who will leave her rich or a husband who will give her riches.
                    
                    I feel some of my readers saying that I must have been most unfortunate in
                        the women I have known. Perhaps. But may it not be that those commiserating
                        readers have been rarely fortunate in their feminine acquaintances?or in
                        lack of insight?
                    Now you probably not only know why we went to Brooklyn, but also what we did
                        after we got there. I have not forgotten my promise to gentle reader. I
                        shall not linger many moments in Brooklyn. True, it is superior to Passaic,
                        at least to the part of Passaic in which I constrained gentle reader to
                        tarry a minute or two. But it is still far from the promised heights.
                    My wife owes a vast deal to Brooklyn. As she haughtily ignores the debt,
                        would deny it if publicly charged, I shall pay it for her. Brooklyn was her
                        finishing school. It made her what she is.
                    In the last year or so we spent in Passaic there had been, as I have hinted,
                        a marked outward change in all three of us. The least, or rather the least
                        abrupt, change had been in me. Associated in business with a more prosperous
                        and better-dressed and better-educated class of men, I had gradually picked
                        up the sort of knowledge a man needs to fit himself for the inevitably
                        changing social conditions accompanying a steady advance in material
                        prosperity. I was as quick to learn one kind of useful thing as another. And
                        just as I learned how to fill larger and larger positions and how to make
                        money out of the chances that come to a man situated where money is to be
                        made, so I learned how to dress like a man of the better class, how to speak
                        a less slangy and a less ungrammatical English, how to use  my mind in thinking and in discussing a
                        thousand subjects not directly related to my business.
                    If my wife had been interested in any of the important things of the world, I
                        could have been of the greatest assistance to her and she to me. And we
                        should have grown ever closer together in sympathetic companionship. But
                        although she had a good minda superior mindshe cared about nothing but the
                        things that interest foolish women and still more foolish menfor a man who
                        cares about splurge and show and social position and such nonsense is less
                        excusable, is more foolish, than a woman of the same sort. Women have the
                        excuse of lack of serious occupation, but what excuse has a man? Still, she
                        was not idlenot for a minute. She was, on the contrary, in her way as busy
                        as I. From time to time she would say to me enigmatically: "You
                        don't appreciate it, but I am preparing myself to help you fill the
                        station your business ability will win us a chance at." It seemed
                        to me that I was doing that alone. For what was necessary to fill that
                        station but higher and higher skill as a man of affairs?
                    When we had made our entry in Brooklyn and had seated ourselves in the state
                        in Bedford Avenue which she had decided for, she showed that she felt
                        immensely proud of herself. We took the house furnished throughoutnicely
                        furnished in a substantial way, for it had been the home of one of the old
                        Brooklyn mercantile families.
                    "It's good enough to start with," said she,
                        casting a critical glance round the sober, homelike dining  room. "I shan't make any
                        changes till I look about me."
                    "We couldn't be better off," said I.
                        "Everything is perfectly comfortable." And in fact neither
                        she nor I had ever before known what comfort was. Looking at that
                        housemerely looking at it and puzzling out the uses of the various things to
                        us theretofore unknown was about as important in the way of education as
                        learning to read is to a child.
                    "It's good enough for Brooklyn," said she. She
                        regarded me with her patient, tender expression of the superior
                        intelligence. "You haven't much imagination or ambition,
                        Godfrey," she went on. "But fortunately I have. And do be careful not to betray us before the servants
                        I'm engaging."
                    The show part of the house continued to look about as it had when we took
                        possession. But the living part went to pieces rapidly. We had many
                        servants. We spent much moneyso much that, if I had not been speculating in
                        various ways, we should have soon gone under. But the results were miserably
                        poor. My wife left everything to her servants and devoted herself to her
                        social career. The ex-Brooklyn society woman at Passaic had not deceived
                        her. No sooner had she joined St. Mary's than she began to have
                        friendsfriends of a far higher social rank than she had ever even seen at
                        close range before. They were elegant people indeedthe wives of the heads of
                        departments in big stores, the families of bank officers and lawyers and
                        doctors. There were even a few rather rich people. My wife was in ecstasy
                        for a year or two. And she  improved rapidly in
                        looks, in dress, in manners, in speech, in all ways except in disposition
                        and character.
                    Except in disposition and character. As we grow older and rise in the world,
                        there is always a deterioration both in disposition and in character. A
                        man's disposition grows sharper through dealing with, and having to
                        deal sharply with, incompetence. The character tends to harden as he is
                        forced to make the unpleasant and often not too scrupulous moves necessary
                        to getting himself forward toward success. Also, the way everyone tries to
                        use a successful man makes him more and more acute in penetrating to the
                        real motives of his fellow beings, more and more inclined to take up men for
                        what he can get out of them and drop them when he has squeezed out all the
                        advantagein brief, to treat them precisely as they treat him. But the whole
                        object in having a home, a wife, a family, is defeated if the man has not
                        there a something that checks the tendencies to cynicism and coldness which
                        active life not merely encourages but even compels.
                    There was no occasion for Edna's becoming vixenish and hard. It was
                        altogether due to the idiotic and worthless social climbing. She had a swarm
                        of friends, yet not a single friend. She cultivated people socially, and
                        they cultivated her, not for the natural and kindly and elevating reasons,
                        but altogether for the detestable purposes of that ghastly craze for social
                        position. Edna was bitter against me for a long time, never again became
                        fully reconciled, because I soon flatly refused to have anything to do with
                        it.
                    "They will think there's something wrong about  you, and about me, if you don't come
                        with me," pleaded she.
                    "I need my strength for my business," said I. "And
                        what do I care whether they think well or ill of me? They don't
                        give us any money."
                    "You are so sordid!" cried she. "Sometimes
                        I'm almost tempted to give up, and not try to be somebody and to
                        make some bodies of Margot and you."
                    "I wish you would," said I. "Why
                        shouldn't we live quietly and mind our own business and be
                        happy?"
                    "How fortunate it is for Margot that she has a mother with ambition
                        and pride!"
                    "Wellno matter. But please do get another cook. This one is, if
                        anything, worse than the lastexcept when we have company."
                    We were forever changing cooks. The food that came on our table was something
                        atrocious. I heard the same complaint from all my married associates at the
                        office, even from the higher officials who were rich men and lived in great
                        state. They, too, had American wives. In the markets and shops I saw as I
                        passed along all sorts of attractive things to eat, and of real quality. I
                        wondered why we never had those things on our table. Heaven knows we spent
                        money enough. The time came when I got a clew to the mystery.
                    One day Edna said: "I've been doing my house-keeping
                        altogether by telephone. I think I'll stop it, except on rainy days
                        and when I don't feel well."
                    By telephone! I laughed to myself. No wonder we had poor stuff and paid the
                        highest prices for it. I thought a while, then to satisfy my curiosity began
                        to  ask questions, very cautiously, for Edna
                        was extremely touchy, as we all are in matters where in our hearts we know
                        we are in the wrong. "Do you remember what kind of range we have in
                        our kitchen?" I asked.
                    "I?" exclaimed she disgustedly. "Certainly not. I
                        haven't been down to the kitchen since we first moved into this
                        house. I've something better to do than to meddle with the
                        servants."
                    "Naturally," said I soothingly. And I didn't let
                        her see how her confession amused me. What if a man tried to run his
                        business in that fashion! And ordering by telephone! Why, it was an
                        invitation to the trades-people to swindle us in every way. But I said
                        nothing.
                    As usually either it was bad weather or Edna was not feeling well, or was in
                        a rush to keep some social engagement, the ordering for the house continued
                        to be done by telephone, when it was not left entirely to the discretion of
                        the servants. One morning it so happened that she and I left the house at
                        the same time. Said she:
                    "I'm on my way to do the marketing. It's a
                        terrible nuisance, and I know so little about those things. But
                        it's coming to be regarded as fashionable for a woman to do her own
                        marketing. Some of the best familiespeople with their own carriages and
                        servants in liverysome of the swellest ladies in Brooklyn do it now.
                        It's a fad from across the river."
                    "You must be careful not to overtax yourself," said I.
                    And I said it quite seriously, for in those days of my innocence I was
                        worried about her, thought her a poor 
                        overworked angel, was glad I had the money to relieve her from the worst
                        tasks and to leave her free to amuse herself and to take care of her health!
                        I had not yet started in the direction of ridding myself of the masculine
                        delusion that woman is a delicate creature by nature if she happens to be a
                        ladyand of course I knew my Edna was a lady through and through. It was many
                        a year before I learned the truthwhy ladies are always ailing and why they
                        can do nothing but wear fine clothes and sit in parlors or in carriages when
                        they are not sitting at indigestible food, and amuse themselves and pity
                        themselves for being condemned to live with coarse, uninteresting American
                        men.
                    Yes, I was sincere in urging her to take care how she adopted so laborious a
                        fad as doing her own marketing. She went on:
                    "If I had a carriage it wouldn't be so bad."
                    She said this sweetly enough and with no suggestion of reproach. Just the
                        sigh of a lady's soul at the hardness of life's
                        conditions. But I, loving her, felt as if I were somehow to blame.
                        "You shall have a carriage before many years," said I.
                        "That's one of the things I've been working
                        for."
                    She gave me a look that made me feel proud I had her to live for. "I
                        hope I'll be here to enjoy it," sighed she.
                    I walked sad and silent by her side, profoundly impressed and depressed by
                        that hint as to her feeble health. I know now it was sheer pretense with
                        her, the more easily to manage me and to cover her shortcomings. I ought to
                        have realized it then. But what man  does? She
                        certainly did not look ill, for she was not one of those who were always
                        stuffing themselves at teas and lunches, and talked of a walk of five blocks
                        as hard exercise! She had learned how to keep health and beauty. What
                        intelligence it shows, that she was able to grasp so difficult a matter; and
                        what splendid persistence that she was able to carry out a mode of life so
                        disagreeable to self-indulgence. If her intelligence and her persistence
                        could have been turned to use! Presently we were at the butcher shop. I
                        paused in the doorway while she engaged in her arduous labor. Here is the
                        conversation:
                    "Good morning, Mr. Toomey." (Very gracious; the lady
                        speaking to the trades person.)
                    "Good morning, ma'am." (Fat little butcher
                        touching cracked and broken-nailed hand to hat respectfully.)
                    "That lamb you sent yesterday was very tough."
                    "Sorry, ma'am. But those kind of things will happen, you
                        know." (Most flatteringly humble of manner.)
                    "Yes, I know. Do your best. I'm sure you try to please.
                        Send melet me seesay, two chickens for broiling. You'll pick out
                        nice ones?"
                    "Yes, indeed, ma'am. I'll attend to it
                        myself."
                    "And something for the servants. You know what they like."
                    "Yes, ma'am. I'll attend to it."
                    "And you'll not overcharge, will you?"
                    "I, ma'am? I've been dealing with ladies for
                        twenty years, right here, ma'am. I never have
                        overcharged."
                    
                    "I know. All the ladies tell me you're honest. I feel safe
                        with you. Let me see, there were some other things. But I'm in a
                        hurry. The cook will tell your boy when he takes what I've ordered.
                        You'll be sure to give me the best?"
                    "I'd not dare send anything else to you,
                        ma'am." (Groveling.)
                    A gracious smile, a gracious nod, and Edna rejoined me. Innocent as I was,
                        and under the spell that blinds the American man where the American woman is
                        concerned, I could not but be upset by this example of how our house was
                        runan example that all in an instant brought to my mind and enabled me to
                        understand a score, a hundred similar examples. There was I, toiling away to
                        make money, earning every dollar by the hardest kind of mental labor,
                        struggling to rise, to make our fortune, and each day my wife was tossing
                        carelessly out of the windows into the street a large part of my earnings. I
                        did not know what to do about it.
                    Edna's next stop was at the grocer's. I had not the courage
                        to halt and listen. I knew it would be a repetition of the grotesque
                        interview with the butcher. And she undoubtedly a clever womanalert,
                        improving. What a mystery! I went on to my office. That day, without giving
                        my acquaintances there an inkling of what was in my mind, I made inquiries
                        into how their wives spent the money that went for foodthe most important
                        item in the spending of incomes under ten or twelve thousand a year. In
                        every case the wife or the mother did the marketing by telephone. All the
                        men  except one took the ignorance and
                        incompetence of the management of the household expenses as a matter of
                        course. One man grumbled a little. I remember he said: "No wonder
                        it's hard for the men to save anything. The women waste most of it
                        on the table, paying double prices for poor stuff. I tell you, Loring, the
                        American woman is responsible for the dishonesty of American commercial
                        life. They are always nagging at the man for more and more money to spend,
                        and in spending it they tempt the merchants, the clerks, their own servants,
                        everyone within range, to become swindlers and thieves."
                    "Oh, nonsense," said I. "You're a
                        pessimist. The American woman is all right. Where'd you find her
                        equal for intelligence and charm?"
                    "She may be intelligent," said he. "She
                        doesn't use it on anything worth while, except roping in some poor
                        sucker to put up for her and to put up with her. And she may have charm, but not for a man who has cut his
                        matrimonial eye teeth."
                    I laughed at Van Dyckthat was my grumbling friend's name. And I soon
                        dropped the subject from my mind. It has never been my habit to waste time
                        in thinking about things when the thinking could not possibly lead anywhere.
                        You may say I ought to have interfered, forced my wife to come to her
                        senses, compelled her to learn her business. Which shows that you know
                        little about the nature of the American woman. If I had taken that course,
                        she would have hated me, she would have done no better, and she would have
                        scorned me as a sordid haggler over small sums 
                        of money who was trying to spoil with the vulgarities of commercial life the
                        beauties of the home. No, I instinctively knew enough not to interfere.
                    But let us take a long leap forward to the day when I became president of the
                        railroad, having made myself a rich man by judicious gambling with eight
                        thousand dollars loaned me by father Wheatlands. He was a rich man, and in
                        the way to become very rich, and he had no heir but Edna after the drowning
                        of her two brothers under a sailboat in Newark Bay. Margot was in a
                        fashionable school over in New York. My wife and I, still a young couple and
                        she beautiful my wife and I were as happy as any married couple can be where
                        they let each other alone and the husband gives the wife all the money she
                        wishes and leaves her free to spend it as she pleases.
                    When I told her of my good fortune, and the sudden and large betterment of
                        our finances, she said with a curious lighting of the eyes, a curious
                        strengthening of the chin:
                    "Nowfor New York!"
                    "New York?" said I. "What does that
                        mean?"
                    "We are going to live in New York," replied she.
                    "But we do live in New York. Brooklyn is part of New York."
                    "Legally I suppose it is," replied she. "But
                        morally and sthetically, socially, and in every other civilized way, my dear
                        Godfrey, it is part of the backwoods. I can hardly wait to get
                        away."
                    
                    "Why, I thought you were happy here!" exclaimed I,
                        marveling, used though I was to her keeping her own counsel strictly about
                        the matters that most interested her. "You've certainly
                        acted as if you loved it."
                    "I didn't mind it at first,"
                        conceded she. "But for two or three years I have loathed it, and everybody that lives in it."
                    I was amazed at this last sally. "Oh, come now, Edna,"
                        cried I, "you've got lots of friends herelots and lots of
                        them."
                    I was thinking of the dozen or so women whom she called and who called her by
                        the first name, women she was with early and late. Women she was daily
                        playing bridge with Bridge! I have a friend who declares that bridge is
                        ruining the American home, and I see his point, but I think he
                        doesn't look deep enough. If it weren't bridge it would be
                        something else. Bridge is a striking example, but only a single example, of
                        the results of feminine folly and idleness that all flow from the same
                        cause. However, let us go back to my talk with Edna. She met my protest in
                        behalf of her friends with a contemptuous:
                    "I don't know a soul who isn't frightfully common."
                    "They're the same sort of people we are."
                    "Not the same sort that I am," declared
                        she proudly. "And not the sort Margot and you are going to be.
                        You'll see. You don't know about these things. But
                        fortunately I do."
                    "You don't seriously mean that you want to leave this
                        splendid old house"
                    "Splendid? It's hardly fit to live in. Of course, we  had to endure it while we were poor and
                        obscure. But now it won't do at all."
                    "And go away from all these people you've worked so hard to
                        get in withall these friendsgo away among strangers. I
                        don't mind. But what would you do? How'd
                        you pass the days?"
                    "These vulgar people bore me to death," declared she.
                        "I've been advancing, if you have stood still. Thank God,
                            I've got ambition."
                    "Heaven knows they're never been my
                        friends," said I. "But I must say they seem nice enough
                        people, as people go. What's the matter with
                        'em?"
                    "They're common," said she with the languor of one
                        explaining when he feels he will not be understood.
                        "They're tiresome."
                    "I'll admit they're tiresome," said I.
                        "That's why I've kept away from them. But I doubt
                        if they're more tiresome than people generally. The fact is, my
                        dear, people are all tiresome. That's why they can't amuse
                        themselves or each other, but have to be amusedhave to hire the clever
                        people of all sorts to entertain them. Instead of asking people here to bore
                        us and to be bored, why not send them seats at a theater or orders for a
                        first-class meal at a first-class restaurant?"
                    "I suppose you think that's funny," said my wife.
                        She had no sense of humor, and the suggestion of a jest irritated her.
                    "Yes, it does strike me as funny," I admitted.
                        "But there's sense in it, too.... I'm sure you
                        don't want to abandon your friends here. Why make ourselves
                        uncomfortable all over again?" I took a serious  persuasive tone. "Edna,
                        we're beginning to get used to the more stylish way of living we
                        took up when we left Passaic and came here to live. Is it sensible to branch
                        out again into the untried and the unknown? Will we be any wiser or any
                        happier? You can shine as the big star now in this circle of friends. You
                        like to run things socially. Here's your chance."
                    "How could I get any pleasure out of running things socially in St.
                        Mary's?" demanded she. "I've outgrown.
                        it. It seems vulgar and common to me. It is vulgar and common."
                    "What does that mean?" I asked innocently.
                    "If you don't understand, I can't tell
                        you," replied she tartly. "Surely you must see that your
                        wife and your daughter are superior to these people round here."
                    "I don't compare my wife and daughter with other
                        people," said I. "To me they're superior to
                        anybody and everybody else in the world. I often wish we lived 'way
                        off in the country somewhere. I'm sure we'd be happier
                        with only each other. We're putting on too much style to suit me,
                        even now."
                    "I see you living in the country," laughed she.
                        "You'd come down about once a week or month."
                    I couldn't deny the truth in her accusation. I felt it ought to have
                        been that my wife and I were so sympathetic, so interested in the same
                        things, that we were absorbed in each other. But the facts were against it.
                        We really had almost nothing in common. I admired her beauty and also her
                        intelligence and energy, though I thought them misdirected. She, I think,
                        liked me in the primitive way of a woman with a man. And she  admired my ability to make money, though she
                        thought it rather a low form of intellectual excellence. However, as she
                        found it extremely useful, she admired me for it in a way. I have seen much
                        of the aristocratic temperament that despises money, but I have yet to see
                        an aristocrat who wasn't greedier than the greediest
                        money-grubberand I must say it is hard to conceive anything lower than the
                        spirit that grabs the gift and despises the giver. But then, some day, when
                        thinking is done more clearly, we shall all see that aristocracy and its
                        spirit is the lowest level of human nature, is simply a deep-seated survival
                        of barbarism. However, Edna and I appealed to and satisfied each other in
                        one way; beyond that our congeniality abruptly ended. Looking back, I see
                        now that talking with her was never a pleasure, nor was it
                        a pleasure to her to talk with me. I irritated her; she
                        bored me.
                    How rarely in our country do you find a woman who is an interesting companion
                        for a man, except as female and male pair or survey the prospect of pairing?
                        And it matters not what line of activity the man is takingbusiness,
                        politics, literature, art, philanthropy even. The women are eternally
                        talking about their superiority to the business man; but do they get along
                        any better with an artistunless he is cultivating the woman for the sake of
                        an order for a picture? Is there any line of serious endeavor in which an
                        American woman is interesting and helpful and companionable to a man? I can
                        get along very well with an artist. I have one friend who is a writer of
                        novels, another who is a writer of plays, a third who is a sculptor. They
                             are interested in my work, and I in
                        theirs. We talk together on a basis of equal interest, and we give each
                        other ideas. Can any American woman say the same? I don't inquire
                        anticipating a negative answer. I simply put the question. But I suspect the
                        answer would put a pin in the bubble of the American woman's
                        pretense of superior culture. She is fooled by her vanity, I fear, and by
                        her sex attraction, and by the influence of the money her despised father or
                        husband gives her. There's a reason why America is notoriously the
                        land of bachelor husbandsand that reason is not the one the women and
                        foreign fortune hunters assert. The American man lets the case go by default
                        against him, not because he couldn't answer, nor yet because he is
                        polite, but because he is indifferent.
                    
                    But my wife was talking about her projected assault upon New York.
                        "I really must be an extraordinary woman," said she.
                        "How I have fought all these years to raise myself, with you
                        dragging at me to keep me down."
                    "I?" protested her unhappy husband. "Why, dear,
                        I've never opposed you in any way. And I've tried to do
                        what I could to help you. You must admit the money's been
                        useful."
                    "Oh, you've never been mean about money," conceded
                        she. "But you don't sympathize with a single one of my
                        ideals."
                    "I want you to have whatever you want," said I.
                        "And anything I can do to get it for you, or to help you get it, I
                        stand ready to do."
                    "Yes, I know, Godfrey, dear," said she, giving me  a long hug and a kiss. "No woman ever
                        had a more generous husband than I have."
                    I naturally attached more importance to this burst of enthusiasm then than I
                        do now. And it is as well that I was thus simple-minded. How little pleasure
                        we would get, to be sure, if, when we are praised or loved by anybody
                        because we do that person a kindness, we paused to analyze and saw the
                        shallow selfishness of such praise or such love. After all, it's
                        only human nature to like those who do as we ask them and to dislike those
                        who don't; and I am not quarreling with human natureor with any
                        other of the unchangeable conditions of the universe. My own love for
                        Ednawhat was it but the natural result of my getting what I wanted from her,
                        all I wanted? I really troubled myself little about her incompetence and
                        extravagance and craze for social position. No doubt to this day I should be
                        But I am again anticipating.
                    "Generous? Nonsense," said I. "It isn't
                        generous to try to make you happy. That's my one chance of being
                        happy myself. A busy man's got to have peace at home. If he
                        hasn't he's like a soldier attacked rear and front at the
                        same time."
                    "I know you don't care where we live," she went
                        on. "And for Margot's sake we've simply got to
                        move to New York."
                    "Oh, you want her to stay at home of nights, instead of living at
                        the school. Why didn't you speak of that first?"
                    "Not at all," cried she. "How slow you are! No;
                        for the present, even if we do live in New York, I think  it best for Margot to keep on living at the
                        school. She's barely started there. I want her training to be
                        thorough. And while I'm learning as fast as I can, I am not
                        competent to teach her. I know, of course. But I haven't had the
                        chance to practice. So I can't teach her."
                    "Teach her what?" I inquired.
                    "To be a ladya practical, expert lady," replied Edna.
                        "That's what she's going to Miss Ryper's
                        school for. And when she comes out she'll be the equal of girls who
                        have generations of culture and breeding behind them."
                    "God bless me!" cried I, laughing. "This Ryper
                        woman must be a wonder."
                    "She is," declared Edna. "It was a great favor,
                        her letting Margot into the school."
                    "Oh, I remember," said I. "She couldn't
                        do it until I got two of the directors of the road to insist on it. But I
                        guess that was merely a bluff of hers to squeeze us for a few hundreds
                        extra."
                    "Not at all," Edna assured me. "You are so
                        ignorant, Godfrey. Please do be careful not to say those coarse things
                        before people."
                    "As you please," said I, cheerfully, for I was used to this
                        kind of calling down. "All the same, the Ryper lady is hot for the
                        dough."
                    Edna shivered. She detested slangcontinued to detest and avoid it even after
                        she learned that it was fashionable. "Miss Ryper guards her list of
                        pupils as their mothers guard their visiting lists," said she.
                        "But now she likes Margot. The dear child has been elected  to the most exclusive fraternity. Every girl
                        in it has to wear hand-made underclothes and has to have had at least a
                        father, a grandfather, and a great grandfather." Edna laughed with
                        pride at her own cleverness before she went on. "Margot came to me
                        when she was proposed, and cried as if her little heart would break. She
                        said she didn't know anything about her grandfather and great
                        grandfather. But I hadn't forgotten to arrange that. I think of
                        everything."
                    "Oh, that was easy enough," said I. "Your
                        grandfather was a tailor and mine was in the grocery business like
                        father."
                    Edna looked round in terror. "Sh! she exclaimed. "Servants
                        always listen." She went to the doorwe were in the small upstairs
                        sitting roomopened it suddenly, looked into the hall, closed the door, and
                        returned to a chair nearer the lounge on which I was stretched comfortably
                        smoking.
                    "What's the matter?" said I.
                    "No one was there," said she. "Haven't I
                        told you never to speak ofof those horrible things?"
                    "But Margot"
                    "Margot doesn't know. She must never
                        know! Poor child, she is so sensitive, it would make her ill."
                    I lapsed into gloomy silence. I had not liked the way Edna had been acting
                        about her parents and mine ever since we came to Brooklyn. But I had been
                        busy, and was averse to meddling.
                    "I gave Margot for the benefit of the girls a genealogy
                        I've gotten up," she went on. "You know all
                        genealogies are more or less faked, and I've no doubt  hers is every bit as genuine as those of half
                        the girls over there. I fixed ours so that it would take a lot of inquiry to
                        expose it. And Margot got into the fraternity."
                    "Are the hand-made underclothes fake too?" said I.
                    "Oh, no. They had to be genuine. I've
                        never let Margot wear any other kind since I learned about those things.
                        There's nothing that gives a child such a sense of ladylikeness and
                        superiority as to feel she's dressed right from the skin
                        out."
                    "Well, school's a different sort of a place from what it
                        was in our day," said I. The picture my wife had drawn amused me,
                        but I somehow did not exactly like it. My mind was too little interested in
                        the direction of the things that absorbed Edna for me to be able to put into
                        any sort of shape the thoughts vaguely moving about in the shadows.
                        "I'll bet," I went on, "poor Margot
                        doesn't have as good a time as we had."
                    "She'd hate that kind of a time," said Edna.
                    I laughed and laid my hand in her lap. Her hand stole into it. I watched her
                        lovely facethe sweet, dreamy expression. "What are you
                        thinking?" said I softly, hopeful of romancewhat I call romance.
                    "I was thinking how low and awful we used to be," replied
                        she, "and how splendidly we are getting away from it."
                    I laughed, for I was used to cold water on my romance. "All the
                        same," insisted I, "Margot would envy us if she
                        knew."
                    "She'd hate it," Edna repeated.
                        "She's going to be an improvement on us."
                    
                    "Not on you," I protested.
                    She looked at me with tender sparkling eyes, the same lovely light-brown eyes
                        that had fascinated me as a boy. Brown eyes for a woman, always! But they
                        must not be of the heavy commonplace shades of brown like a deer's
                        or a cow's. They must have light shades in them, tints verging
                        toward blue or green. Said Edna: "I'm doing my best to fit
                        myself. And before I get through, Godfrey, I think I'll go
                        far."
                    "Sure you will," said I, with no disposition to turn the
                        cold douche on her kind of romance. What an idiot I was
                        about her, to be sure! I went on: "And I'll see that you
                        have the money to grease the toboggan slide and make the going
                        easy."
                    She talked on happily and confidingly: "Yes, it's best to
                        leave Margot another year as a boarder at Miss Ryper's. By that
                        time we'll be established over in New York, and we'll have
                        a proper place for her to receive her friends. And perhaps we'll
                        have a few friends of our own."
                    "Swell friends, eh?"
                    "Please don't say swell, dear," corrected she.
                        "It's such a common word."
                    "I've heard you say it," I
                        protested.
                    "But I don't any more. I've learned better. And
                        now I've taught you better."
                    "Anything you like. Anybody you like," said I. When Edna
                        and I were together, with our hands clasped, I was always completely under
                        her spell. She could do what she pleased with me, so long, of course, as she
                        didn't interfere in my end of the firm. And I may add  that she never did; she hadn't the
                        faintest notion what I was about. They say there are thousands of American
                        women in the cities who know their husbands' places of business
                        only as street and telephone numbers. My wife was one of that kind. Oh, yes,
                        from the standpoint of those who insist that business and home should be
                        separate, we were a model couple.
                    "There's another matter I want to talk over with you,
                        Godfrey," she went on.
                    "That's a lovely dress you're wearing,"
                        said I. "It goes so well with your skin and your hair."
                    She was delighted, and was moved to rise and look at herself in the long
                        mirror. She gave herself an approving glance, but not more approving than
                        what she saw merited. A long, slim beautiful figure; a dress that set it
                        off. A lovely young tip-tilted face, the face of a girl with fresh, clear
                        eyes and skin, the whitest, evenest sharp teethand such hair!such quantities
                        of hair attractively arranged.
                    From herself she glanced at me. "No one'd ever think what
                        we came from, would they?" said she fondly and proudly.
                        "Oh, Godfrey, it makes me so happy that we look
                        the part. We belong where we're going. The good blood away back in
                        the family is coming out. And Margot I've always called her the
                        little duchess and she looks it and feels it." Dreamily,
                        "Maybe she will be some day."
                    "Why, she's a baby," cried I. For I
                        didn't like to see that my baby was growing up.
                    "She's nearly fourteen," said Edna. She was
                        looking at herself again. "Would you ever think I
                        had a  daughter fourteen years old?"
                        said she, making a laughing, saucy face at me.
                    I got up and kissed her. "You don't look as old as you did
                        when I married you," said I, and it was only a slight exaggeration.
                    When we sat again, she was snuggled into my lap with her head against my
                        shoulder. She was immensely fond of being petted. They say this is no sign
                        of a loving nature, that cats, the least loving of all pets, are fondest of
                        petting. I have no opinion on the subject.
                    "What was it you wanted to talk about?" said I.
                        "Money?"
                    "No, indeed," laughed she.
                    "I supposed so, as that's the only matter in which I have
                        any influence in this family."
                    "Come to think of it," said she, "it is moneyin a
                        way. It's aboutour parents." She gave a deep sigh.
                        "Godfrey, they hang over me like a nightmare!"
                    Her tragic seriousness amused me. "Oh, cheer up," said I,
                        kissing her. "They certainly don't fit in with our
                        stylishness. But they're away off there in Passaic, and bother us
                        as little as we bother them. The truth is, Edna, we've not acted
                        right. We've been selfishspending all our prosperity on ourselves.
                        Of course, they've got everything they really want,
                        butwell"
                    "That's exactly it," said she eagerly.
                        "My conscience has been hurting me. We ought toto It
                        wouldn't cost much to make them perfectly comfortable so
                        they'd not have to workand could get away from the groceryand
                        theand the"she hesitated before saying "father's
                        business," as if nerving herself  to
                        pronounce words of shame. And when she did finally force out the evading
                        "father's business," it was with such an accent
                        that I couldn't help laughing outright.
                    "Undertaking's a good-paying business," said I.
                        "We certainly ought to be grateful to it. It supplied the eight
                        thousand dollars that gave me the chance to buy half the rolling mill. And
                        you know the rolling mill was the start of our fortune."
                    "Do you think father could be induced to retire? she asked.
                    "Never," said I. "Your father's a rich
                        man, for Passaic. He's got two hundred thousand at least hived away
                        in tenements that pay from twenty to thirty-five per cent. And his business
                        now brings in ten to fifteen thousand a year straight along."
                    "You can make your father retire?"
                    I laughed. "Poor dad! I've been keeping him from being
                        retired by the sheriff. He's squeezing out a bare living.
                        He'd be delighted to stop and have all his time for talking
                        politics and religion."
                    "You could buy them a nice place a little way out in the country, on
                        some quiet road. I'm sure your mother and your old maid sister
                        would love it."
                    "Perhaps," said I. "If it wasn't too quiet."
                    "But it must be quiet. And we'll induce my father and
                        mother to buy a place near by."
                    "Your father'll not give up the business."
                    "I've thought it all out," said Edna, whose mind
                        was equal to whatever task she gave it. "You must get some one to
                        offer him a price he simply can't refuse,  and make a condition that he shall not go into business again.
                        Aren't those things done?
                    I was somewhat surprised, but not much, at the knowledge of business this
                        displayed. "Why!Why! "laughed I. "And you pretend
                        to know nothing about business!"
                    She was in a sensible, loving mood that day. So she said with a quiet little
                        laugh: "I make it a point to know anything that's useful
                        to me. I don't know much about business. Why should I bother with
                        it? I've got confidence in you."
                    It was not the first time I had got a peep into her mind and had seen how she
                        looked on everyone, including me, as a wheel in her machine, and never
                        interfered unless the wheel didn't work to suit her. I laughed
                        delightedly. There was something charmingly feminine, thought I, about this
                        point of view so upside down. "Yes, I guess your father'll
                        jump for the bait you suggest," said I. "But why disturb
                        him? He loves his undertaking."
                    She shivered.
                    "And he'll be miserable idling about."
                    "Oh, I guess he'll get along all right," said she,
                        with sarcasm and with truth. "He'll devote himself to
                        suing his tenants and counting his money.... Godfrey, you simply must get
                        those people in Passaic out of our way. I've been a little nervous
                        over here, though I knew that none of these dreadful people we associate
                        with has anything better in the way of family than us, and some have a lot
                        worse. Oh, it's frightful to have parents
                        one's ashamed of!"
                    
                    I think I blushed. I'm sure I looked away to avoid seeing her
                        expression. "It's frightful to be ashamed of
                        one's parents," said I.
                    "Now don't be hypocritical," cried she.
                        "You know perfectly well you are ashamed of your parents, as I am
                        of mine."
                    "I'll admit," said I, "that if they
                        showed up at the office, I'd be a bit upset and would feel
                        apologetic. But I'm ashamed of myself for feeling that
                        way."
                    "If you only realized about things," said she, which was
                        her phrase for hitting at me as lacking in refined instincts,
                        "you'd not be ashamed of yourself, but would frankly
                        suffer. They are a disgrace to us."
                    "They're honest people, well meaning, and as good as the
                        best in every essential way," said I. "Believe me, Edna,
                        the fault isn't in them. It's in us. Suppose you found
                        some day that Margot was ashamed of you and me."
                    "But she'll not be," retorted Edna. "I
                        for one will see to it that she has no cause to be anything but
                        proud."
                    I couldn't but admit that there were two sides to the problem of our
                        parents. It was shameful to be ashamed of them. But it was also human. I
                        couldn't and can'tutterly damn in Edna a fault, a vulgar
                        weakness, I myself had, and almost everyone I knew. No doubt, gentle reader,
                        you are scandalized and disgusted. But one of my objects in relating this
                        whole story is to scandalize and to disgust you. You have had too much
                        consideration at the hands of writers you and your hypocritical virtues and
                        your hysterical  nerves. If you are an
                        American, you are probably far in advance of your parents in worldly
                        knowledge, in education, in every way except perhaps manly and womanly
                        self-respect. For along with your progress has come an infection of
                        snobbishness and toadyism that seems in some mysterious way inseparable from
                        higher civilization. So be shocked and disgusted with Edna and me, and
                        don't turn your hypocritical eyes inward on your own secret
                        thoughts and actions about your own humble parents. Above all,
                        don't learn from this horrifying episode a decenter mode of
                        thinking and feelingand acting.
                    "We must get them out of the way before we move to New
                        York," said Edna. "Ever since Margot began at Mrs.
                        Ryper's I've been on pins and needles. You don't
                        know how malicious fashionable people are. Why, some of them who have
                        nothing to do might at any time run out to Passaic and see for
                        themselves."
                    Edna was sitting up in my lap, gazing at me with wide harassed-looking eyes.
                        I burst out laughing. "They might take a camera along, and get some
                        snapshots," I suggested.
                    Edna's face contracted with horror and her form grew limp and weak.
                        "My God!" she cried. "So they might. Godfrey, we
                        must attend to it at once."
                
                
                
                    III
                    I HAVE never been able to come to a satisfactory verdict
                        as to the intelligence of the human race. Is it stupid, or is it, rather,
                        sluggish? Is it unable to think, or does it refuse to think? Does it believe
                        the follies it pretends to believe and usually acts upon, or is it the
                        victim of its own willful prejudices and hypocrisies? Never have I decided
                        that a certain man or woman was practically witless, but that he or she has
                        confounded me by saying or doing something indicating shrewdness or even
                        wisdom.
                    The women are especially difficult to judge. Take Edna, for example.
                    It was impossible to interest her in anything worth while. But as to the
                        things in which she was interested, none could have thought more clearly or
                        keenly, or could have acted with more vigor and effect. I have often made
                        serious blundersinexcusable blundersin managing my own affairs. To go no
                        further, my management of my family would have convicted me of imbecility
                        before any court not made up of good-natured, indifferent, woman-worshiping,
                        woman-despising American husbands. Yes, I have made the stupidest blunders
                        in all creation. But I cannot recall a single notable blunder made by Edna
                        in the matters which  alone she deemed worthy
                        of her attention. She decided what she wanted. She moved upon it by the best
                        route, whether devious or direct or a combination of the two. And she always
                        got it.
                    You may say her success was due to the fact that her objects were trivial.
                        But if you will think a moment, you will appreciate that a thing's
                        triviality does not necessarily make it easy to attain. As much energy and
                        skill may be shown in winning a sham battle as in winning a real. Still, I
                        suppose minds are cast in molds of various sizes, and one cast in a small
                        mold can deal only with the small. And I guess that, from whatever cause,
                        the minds of women are of diverse kinds of smaller molds. Perhaps this is
                        the result of bad education. Perhaps better education will correct it. I do
                        not know. I can speak only of what isof Edna as she is and always has been.
                    Having made up her mind to fell the genealogical tree, that an artificial one
                        might be stood up in its place, she lost no time in getting into action.
                    It was on the Sunday following our talkthe earliest possible daythat she took
                        me for the first visit we had made our parents in nearly three years. We had
                        sent them presents. We had written them letters. We had received painfully
                        composed and ungrammatical repliesthese received both for Edna and myself at
                        my office, because she feared the servants would pry into periodically
                        arriving exhibits of illiteracy. We had written them of coming and bringing
                        Margot with us. We had received suggestions of their coming to see us, which
                        Edna had evaded by such excuses as that we were  moving or that she or Margot was not well or that the cook had abruptly
                        deserted. The world outside Passaic was a vague place to our old fathers and
                        mothers. Their own immediate affairs kept them busy. So with no sense of
                        deliberate alienation on their side and small and mildly intermittent sense
                        of it on our side, the months and the years passed without our seeing one
                        another.
                    Edna announced to me the intended visit only an hour before we started. It
                        was a habit of hersa clever habit, toonever to take anyone into her
                        confidence about her plans until the right momentthat is, the moment when
                        execution was so near at hand that discussion would seem futile. At a
                        quarter before nine on that Sunday morning she said:
                    "Don't dress for church. This is a good day to make that
                        trip to Passaic."
                    "We'll go by Miss Ryper's for Margot,"
                        said I. "How the old people will stare when they see her!"
                    Edna looked at me as if I had suddenly uncovered unmistakable evidence of my
                        insanity. Then I who had clean forgot her foolish notions remembered.
                        "But why not?"I urged. "It will give them so much
                        pleasure."
                    "Trash!"ejaculated she. "They don't care
                        a rap about her. They can't, as they've not seen her since
                        she was a baby. And Margot would suffer horribly. I think it would be wicked
                        to give a sweet, happy young girl a horrible shock."
                    This grotesque view of the effect of the sight of grandparents upon a
                        grandchild struck me as amusing. But there was no echo of my laughter in the
                        disgusted  face of my wife. I sobered and said:
                        "Yes, it would give her a shock. We've made a mistake,
                        bringing her up in that way."
                    "Too late to discuss it now," said Edna.
                    "I suppose so," I could not but agree. "I guess
                        the mischief's done beyond repair."
                    Said Edna: "Have you any sense ofof them being your father and mother?"
                    "Rather," said I. "My childhood is very vivid to
                        me, and not at all disagreeable."
                    "It seems to me like a bad dreamunreal, and to be forgotten as
                        quickly as I can."
                    She said this with a fine, spiritual look in her eyes, and I must say that
                        Edna, refined, delicately beautiful, fashionably dressed, speaking her
                        English with an elegant accent, did not suggest fusty-dusty, queer-looking
                        Weeping Willie with his hearse and funeral coaches, his embalming apparatus
                        and general appearance of animated casket, nor yet fat, sloppy Ma
                        Wheatlands, always in faded wrappers and with holes cut in her shoes for her
                        bunions.
                    "Wear your oldest business suit," said Edna, coming back to
                        earth from the contemplation of her own elevation and grandeur. "I
                        shall dress as quietly as I dare. We mustn't arouse the suspicions
                        of the servants."
                    Edna's fooleries amused me. I didn't then appreciate the
                        dangers of tolerating and laughing at the bad habits of a fascinating child.
                        If I had, little good I'd have accomplished, I suspect. However, I
                        got myself up as Edna directed, and when I saw how it irritated  her I stopped making such remarks as:
                        "Shall I wear a collar? Hadn't I better sneak out the back
                        way and join you at the ferry?" I should have liked to get some fun
                        out of our doings; that would have taken at least the saw edge off my
                        feelings of self-contempt. I am not fond of hypocrisy, yet for that one
                        occasion I should have welcomed the familiar human shamming and faking in
                        such matters. But Edna would put the thing through like one of her
                        father's funerals. As we, in what was practically disguise, issued
                        forth, she said loudly enough for the cocking ear of a maid who chanced to
                        be in the front hall:
                    "Anyhow, the country dust won't spoil these clothes.
                        I'm so glad it's clear. How charming the woods will
                        look."
                    Just enough to deceive. Edna expanded upon her cleverness in never saying too
                        much, because saying too much always started people, especially servants, to
                        thinking. But she abruptly checked her flow of selfpraise as we seated
                        ourselves in the ferry and she looked about. There, not a dozen seats away,
                        loomed our cook! Yes, no mistake, it was our Mary, "gotten up
                        regardless "for a Sunday outing.
                    "Do you see Mary?" said my wife.
                    "She's the most conspicuous female in sight," said
                        I. "She's a credit to us."
                    "I must have been mad," groaned Edna, "to give her
                        a holiday! Always the way. I never do a generous, kind-hearted thing that I
                        don't have to pay for it."
                    "I don't follow you," said I.
                    "She hates us," explained Edna. "CooksIrish  cooksinvariably hate the families they draw
                        wages from. She's dogging us."
                    "Nonsense," said I. "She probably hasn't
                        even seen us."
                    But Edna was not listening; she was contriving. "We must let her
                        leave the boat ahead of us. Pretend not to see her."
                    I obeyed orders. In the Jersey City train shed we, lagging behind, saw her
                        take a train bound for a different destination from ours. Much relieved,
                        Edna led the way to the Passaic train. Hardly were we seated when in at the
                        door of the coach hurried our Mary, excited and blown. She came beaming down
                        the aisle. Edna saluted her graciously and calmly.
                    "I got in the wrong train," said Mary.
                        "It'd never have took me nowheres near my cousin in
                        Passaic."
                    Edna's composure was admirable. Said I, when Mary had passed on,
                        "Now what, my dear?"
                    "You see she is dogging us," replied
                        Edna. "I've not a doubt she knows all about us."
                    "I don't think she's got a
                        camera," said I. "Still, they make them very small
                        nowadays."
                    "We shall have to go on in the train, and return home from the
                        station beyond," said Edna.
                    "Do as you like," said I. "But as for me, I get
                        off at Passaic and go to see the old folks."
                    "Please stop your joking," said Edna. "If you had
                        any pride you couldn't joke."
                    "I am serious," said I. "I shall go to see mother
                        and father."
                    
                    "No doubt her cousin lives in the same part of the slums,"
                        said Edna. "Oh, it is hideous!"
                    I don't know what possessed mewhether a fit of indigestion and
                        obstinacy or a sudden access of sense of decency as I approached my old
                        home. Whatever it was, it moved me to say: "My dear, this nonsense
                        has gone far enough. We will do what we set out to do."
                    "Not I," said Edna.
                    "Then I'll drop off at Passaic alone, and hire a trap, and
                        give Mary a seat in it as far as her cousin's. I'm not
                        proud of my parents, the more shame to me. But there's a limit to
                        my ability to degrade myself."
                    Edna and I had not lived together all those years without her learning the
                        tone I use when I will not be trifled with. She did not argue. She sat
                        silent and pale beside me. When the train stopped at Passaic she followed me
                        from the car. Mary descended ahead of us and moved off at as brisk a pace as
                        tight corsets and stiff new shoes would permit, in a direction exactly
                        opposite that we were to take.
                    "Aren't you glad we didn't go on?" said
                        I, eager to make it up.
                    She made no reply. She maintained haughty and injured silence until we were
                        within sight of the houses. Then she said curtly:
                    "I'll do the talking about our plans for them."
                    "That'll be best," said I, most conciliatory.
                    I had not intended to say this. There had been a half-formed resolution in my
                        mind to oppose those plans. But her anger roused in me such a desire to
                        pacify her  that I promptly yielded, where, I
                        must in honesty confess, I was little short of indifferent. American
                        husbands have the reputation of being the most docile and the worst
                        henpecked men in the world. All foreigners say so, and our women believe it.
                        In fact, nothing could be further from the truth. The docility of American
                        husbands is the good nature of indifference. A friend of mine has the habit
                        of saying that his most valued and most valuable possession is his long list
                        of things he cares not a rap about. It is a typically American and luminous
                        remark. The men of other nations agitate over trifles, love to have the
                        sense of being master at homeusually their one and only chance for a free
                        swing at the joyous feeling of being boss. The American man, absorbed in his
                        important work at office or factory, and not caring especially about
                        anything else, lets thieving politicians rule in public affairs, lets
                        foolish, incompetent women rule in domestic affairs. He has a half-conscious
                        philosophy that he is shrewd enough, if he attends to his business, to make
                        money faster than they can take it away from him, and that, if he does not
                        attend to his business only, he will have nothing either for thieving
                        politician and spendthrift wife or for himself. If you wish to discover how
                        little there is in the notion of his docility, meddle with something he
                        really cares about. Many a political rascal, many a shiftless wife, has done
                        it and has gotten a highly disagreeable surprise.
                    Perhaps what I saw had as much to do with my tame acquiescence in my
                        wife's projects as my desire to have peace between her and me, when
                        peace meant  yielding what only a vague and
                        feeble filial impulse moved me to contest. I had what I thought was a clear
                        and vivid memory of ray natal place and Edna'show the two houses
                        looked, how small and shabby they were, how mean their surroundings, how
                        plain their interiors. But as we drove up I discovered that memory had been
                        pleasantly deceiving me. Could these squalid hovels, these tiny, hideous
                        boxes set in two dismal weedy oblongs of unkempt yardscould these be our old
                        homes? And the bent old laboring man and his wifewe had drawn up in front of
                        my homecould they be my father and my
                        mother?
                    A feeling of sickness, of nausea came over me. Not from repulsion for my
                        parentsthank God, I had not sunk that low. But from abhorrence of myself, so
                        degraded by the "higher world" into which prosperity and
                        Edna's ambitions had dragged me that I could look down upon the
                        gentle old man and the patient, loving old woman to whom I owed life and a
                        fair start in the world. My blood burned and my eyes sank as they greeted
                        me, their homely old hands trembling, their mouths distorted by emotion and
                        age and missing teeth. I turned away while they were kissing Edna, for I
                        felt I should hate her and loathe myself if I saw the expression that must
                        be in her face.
                    "There are my father and mother!" she cried in a
                        suffocating voice. And we three Lorings were watching her hurry across the
                        yard and through the gap in the fence between the two places. My sister came
                        forward. We kissed each other as awkwardly as two strangers. I looked at her
                        dazedly. Mary, our cook, was an imposing 
                        looking lady beside this thin-haired, coarse-featured old maid. In
                        embarrassed silence we four entered the house. I am not tall nor in the
                        least fat, yet I had an uncontrollable impulse to stoop and to squeeze as I
                        entered the squat and narrow doorway. That miserable little
                        "parlor!"
                    As we sat silent my roving glance at last sought my mother's face.
                        Oh, the faces, the masks, with which freakish and so often savagely ironic
                        fate covers and hides our souls, making fair seem foul and foul seem fair,
                        making beauty repellent and ugliness seem beautiful. Suddenly through that
                        plain, time- and toil-scarred mask, through those dim, sunken eyes, I saw
                        her soulher mother's heartlooking at me. And the tears poured into
                        my eyes. "Mother!" I sobbed in a choking voice, and I put
                        my arms round her and nestled against her heart, a boy againa bad boy with a
                        streak of good in him. I felt how proud shethey allwere of me, the son and
                        brother, who had gone forth and fulfilled the universal American dream of
                        getting up in the world. I hoped, I prayed that they would not realize what
                        a poor creature I was, with my snobbish shame.
                    There was an awkward, rambling attempt at talk. But we had nothing to talk
                        aboutnothing in common. I happened to think of our not having brought
                        Margot; how shameful it was, yet how glad I felt, and how self-contemptuous
                        for being glad. To break that awful silence I enlarged upon Margother
                        beauty, her cleverness.
                    "She must be like Polly"my sister's name was  Polly"like Polly was at her
                        age," observed my mother.
                    I looked at Polly Ann, in whose faded face and withered formfaded and
                        withered though she was not yet forty, was in fact but seven or eight years
                        older than I. Like Polly! I could speak no more of Margot, the delicate
                        loveliness of a rare, carefully reared hot-house exotic. Yes, exotic; for
                        the girls and the women brought up in the super-refinements of prosperous
                        class silliness seem foreign to this worldand are.
                    A few minutes that seemed hours, and Edna came in, her father and mother
                        limping and hobbling in her train. Edna was sickly pale and her eyelids
                        refused to rise. I shook hands with old Willie Wheatlands, hesitated, then
                        kissed the fat, sallow, swinging cheek of my mother-in-law. Said Edna in a
                        hard, forced voice:
                    "I've explained that Margot isn't well and that
                        we've got to get back "
                    "Mercy me!" cried my mother. "Ain't you
                        going to stay to supper?"
                    Supper! It was only half-past twelve. Supper could not be until five or half
                        past. We had been there half an hour and already conversation was exhausted
                        and time had become motionless.
                    "We intended to," said Edna. "But Margot
                        wasn't at all well when we left. We simply can't stay away
                        long. We'd not have come, but we felt we'd never get here
                        if we kept on letting things interfere."
                    "You didn't leave Margy alone?"
                        demanded Edna's mother.
                    "Almost," said Edna. "Only aa servant."
                    
                    "Oh, you keep a nurse girl, too," said Polly. "I
                        thought Edna didn't look as if she did any of her own
                        work."
                    "Yes, I have aa girl, in addition to the cook," replied
                        Edna, flushing as she thus denied three of her five servantsflushing not
                        because of the denial, but because in her confession she had almost
                        forgotten about the numerous excuses based on the cook. "Godfrey
                        has been doing very well, and we felt we could afford it."
                    "Better get rid of her," advised old Willie sourly.
                        "And of the cook, too. Servant girls is mighty wasteful."
                    "And she'll teach Margy badness," said my mother.
                        "Them servants is full of poison. Even if yer pa'd had
                        money I'd never have allowed no servant round my children, no
                        more'n a snake in the cradle. I hope she's a good
                        Christian, and not a Catholic?"
                    "She's all right," declared Edna nervously.
                        "But we'll have to be going soon."
                    "Yes; that there girl might git drunk," said Mrs.
                        Wheatlands.
                    "And set fire to the house maybe," said my mother.
                        "I heard of a case just last week."
                    "I wish you hadn't said that," cried Edna, her
                        tones of protest more like jubilation. "I'll be wretched
                        until I'm home again."
                    Mother told in detail and with rising excitement the story of the drunken
                        nurse girl who had burned up herself and her charges, a pair of lovely
                        twins. From that moment our families were anxious for us to go. The  three women could see the girl drunk and the
                        house burning. The two grandfathers, while less imaginative, were almost as
                        uneasy. Besides, no doubt our families found us full as tiring as we found
                        them.
                    "But before we go," said Edna, in a business-like tone,
                        "there's one thing we wanted to talk about. Godfrey has
                        hadthat is, he has done very well in business. And of course our first
                        thoughtone of our first thoughtswas what could we do for you all down here.
                        We hate to think of your living in this unhealthful part of the town. We
                        want to see you settled in some healthful place, up in the hills."
                    We were watching the faces of our five kinsfolk. We could make nothing of
                        their expression. It was heavy, dullmere listening, without a hint of even
                        comprehension behind.
                    "We thought you, father, and Mr.father Loring might look round and
                        find a nice farm with a big comfortable houseplenty big enough for you
                        alland Godfrey will buy it, and will pay for a man and a woman to look after
                        you. He has done well, as I said, and he can afford it. In fact,
                        they've made him president of the railroad."
                    My father, my mother, and my sister exchanged glances. A long, awed silence.
                        Old Willie spoke in his squeaky, stingy voice: "I can't
                        leave my business. I ain't footless like Loring there. Mybusiness pays."
                    "You can sell it," said Edna. "You know you ought
                        to retire. You were telling me how bad your health had been."
                    "Nobody else couldn't make nothing like what I  make out of it. The men growing up nowadays
                        ain't no account. The no-account women with heads full of
                        foolishness leads 'em off."
                    Edna agreed with him, pointed out that he'd have to give up soon
                        anyhow, appealed to his cupidity for real estate by expanding upon the size
                        and value of the farm I was willing to give him. She made a strong
                        impression. The women were converted by the prospect of having help with the
                        work. My father had long dreamed of a home in the country. He had not the
                        imagination to picture how he would be bored, away from the loafers with
                        whom he talked politics and religion. "And," said Edna,
                        "you'll have horses and things to ride in, so you can go
                        where you please whenever you please."
                    We had roused them. We had dazzled them. It was plain that if a purchaser
                        could be found for the Wheatlands undertaking business, Edna would carry her
                        point. "Godfrey will look for somebody to take the
                        business," said she to her father. "I want you and Father
                        Loring to start out to-morrow morning, and not stop till you've
                        found a farm."
                    I understood an uncertain gleam in old Willie's eyes.
                        "About the price," said I, speaking for the first time,
                        "I'm willing to pay twenty-five thousand down for the
                        place alone, and as I'll pay cash, you ought to be able on mortgage
                        to get a farmor two or three adjoining farmsthat would cost twice
                        that."
                    The two families were dumbfounded.
                    "I know I can trust you, Mr. Wheatlands, to get the money's
                        worth."
                    
                    "Buy a big place," said Edna, of the unexpected timely
                        shrewdnesses. "Go back from the main roads where land's so
                        dear."
                    Wheatlands nodded. "That's a good idea," said he.
                        "There'll be plenty of roads after a while."
                    Edna was ready to depart. "Then it's settled?"
                        said she.
                    Her father nodded. "I'm willing to see what can be done.
                        But I'd rather not have Ben Loring along. He'd interfere
                        with a good bargain."
                    "Yes, you go alone, Willie," said my father.
                        "Anyhow, I've got to 'tend store. I
                        can't afford a boy any more."
                    The mention of the, to them, enormous sum of money had put them in a state of
                        awe as to Edna and me. It saddened me to observe how quickly the weed of
                        snobbishness, whose seeds are in all human nature, sprang up and dominated
                        the whole garden. They lost the sense of our blood kinship with them. They
                        felt that we, able to dispense such splendid largess, were of a superior
                        order of being. And I saw that my and Edna's feeling of strangeness
                        toward them was intimacy beside the feeling of strangeness toward us which
                        they now had. In my dealings with my fellow beings I have often noted this
                        sort of thingthat the snobbishness of those who look down is a weak and
                        hesitating impulse which would soon die out but for the encouragement it
                        gets from the snobbishness of those who look up. I read somewhere,
                        "Caste is made by those who look up, not by those who look
                        down." That is a great truth, and like most great, simple, obvious
                        truths is usually overlooked.
                    
                    Looking back I see that my own first decisive impulse toward the caste
                        feeling came that day, came when my people and Edna's, discovering
                        that we were rich, began to treat us as lower class treats upper class.
                    My mother had been scrutinizing me for signs of the majesty of wealth.
                        "Why don't you wear a beard, or leastways a mustache,
                        Godfrey?" she finally inquired. "Then you
                        wouldn't seem so boyish like."
                    "I used to wear a mustache," said I, "but I cut it
                        off becauseI don't recall why."
                    In fact I did recall. I noted one day that I had a good mouth and better
                        teeth than most men have. And it came to me how absurd it was to hang a
                        bunch of hair from my upper lip to trail in the soup and to embalm the odors
                        of past cigars for the discomfort of my nose. Edna kept after me for a time
                        to let it grow again. But reading in some novel she regarded as
                        authoritative that mustaches were "common," she desisted.
                        And I found my boyish appearance highly useful. It led men to underestimate
                        mea signal advantage in the contests of wit against wit in which I daily
                        engaged with a view to wrenching a fortune for myself away from my fellow
                        men.
                    My mother went on to urge me to make my face look older and more formidable.
                        Now that she had learned what a grand person I was she feared others would
                        not realize it. Edna, who, as I have said, was shrewdness personified where
                        her own interests were involved, immediately saw the dangerous bearings of
                        this newly aroused vanity of our kin. "I forgot to caution
                        you," said she, "not to mention our prosperity. If we  were talked about now, it might be lost
                        entirely. The only reason Godfrey and I came to you so soon with the news of
                        it was because we wanted to do something for you right away. And we knew we
                        could trust you not to get us into trouble. Don't talk about us. If
                        you hear people talking, if they ask you questions, pretend you
                        don't understand and don't know. You see, it may be spies
                        from our enemies."
                    One glance round that circle of eager faces was enough to convince that Edna
                        had made precisely the impression she desired. I could see that my mother
                        and old Weeping Willie, the shrewd of the fivethe two to whom Edna and I
                        owed most by inheritancewere prepared to deny knowing us if that would aid
                        in safeguarding the precious prosperity. My father and sister were obviously
                        disappointed that they could not go about boasting of our magnificence and
                        getting from the neighbors the envy and respect due the near relations of a
                        plutocrat. But there was no danger of their being indiscreet; Edna could
                        breathe freely. And when the two families were tucked away in the midst of a
                        large and secluded farm, she could tell what genealogical stories she
                        pleased without fear of being confounded by the truth.
                    By three o'clock we were back in Brooklyn. Edna felt and looked
                        triumphant. The crowning of the day's work had' been small
                        but significant. A heavy rain storm that came up while we were on the way
                        back must have made the servants think we had cut short our woodland outing.
                        As we were going to bed that night Edna roused herself from deep study and
                        broke  a lang silence with, "I
                        hesitated whether to tell them you had became president of the
                        road."
                    I had noted that seeming slip of hers, So unlike her cautious reticence.
                    "Then I remembered they'd be sure to see it in the
                        papers," continued she. "And I decided it was best to tell
                        and quiet them."
                    While the old folks were industriously settling themselves in the New Jersey
                        woods Here let me relieve my mind by saying a few words in mitigatian of the
                        unfilial and snobbish conduct of Edna and me. I admit we deserve nothing but
                        condemnatian. I admit I am more to blame than she because I could have
                        campelled her to act better toward aur families, though of course I could
                        not have changed her feelingsor my own, for that matter. But, as often
                        happens in this world, the thing that was in motive shameful turned out
                        well. We and our families had grown hopelessly apart. Intercourse with them
                        could not but have been embarrassing and uncomfortable for both sides. When
                        we got them the farm, got them away from the malarial and squalid part of
                        Passaic into a healthful regian where they lived in much better health and
                        in a comfart they could appreciate, we did the best possible thing for them,
                        as well as far ourselves. DO not think for a mament that because I am
                        ashamed of my snobbish motives I am therefore advocating the keeping up of
                        irksome and absurd ties merely out of wormy sentimentality. It has always
                        seemed to me, when we have but the one chance at life, the one chance to
                        make the best of our  talents and
                        opportunities, that only moral or mental weakness, or both, would waste the
                        one chance in the bondage of outworn ties. When one has outgrown any
                        association, lop it off relentlessly, say I. If the living lets the dying
                        cling to it, the dying does not live but the living dies. If you are
                        associated with anyone in any waybusiness, social, ties of affection,
                        whatever you pleaseand if you do not wish to lose that one, then keep
                        yourself alive and abreast of him or her. And if you let yourself begin to
                        decay and find yourself cut away, whose is the fault, if fault there be? We
                        Edna and Iperhaps did not do all we might to make our outgrown families
                        happy; I say perhaps, though I am by no means sure that we did not do all
                        that was in our power, for they certainly would have got no pleasure out of
                        seeing more of two people so uncongenial to them in every respect. At any
                        rate, we did not leave our families to starve or to suffer. Hard though my
                        charming, lovely wife was, I cannot conceive her sinking to that depth. On
                        the whole, I feel that we could honestly say we took the right course with
                        them. That is, we helped them without hindering ourselves. We did the right
                        thing, though not in the right way.
                    While our families were choosing a farm, were fixing up the buildings to suit
                        their needs and tastes, were moving themselves from their ancient haunts,
                        Edna was as industriously busy making far deeper inroads on the new
                        prosperity. She was planning the conquest of New York.
                    Every day in the year many a suddenly enriched 
                        family is busy about the same enterprise. Families from the less fashionable
                        parts of the city moving to the fashionable parts. Families from other
                        cities and towns east, west, north, and southadvancing to social conquest
                        under the leadership of mamas and daughters tired of shining in obscure,
                        monotonous, and unappreciative places. There are I forget how many thousands
                        of millionaires on Manhattan Island; enough, I know, with the near
                        millionaires and those living like millionaires, to make a city of three or
                        four hundred thousand, not including servants and parasites. Not all of
                        these have the fashionable craze; at least, they haven't it in its
                        worst formthe form in which it possessed my wife. All the acute sufferers
                        must find suitable lodgments near Fifth Avenue if not in it.
                    Now New York is ever ready to receive and to "trim" the
                        arriving millionaire. It has all kinds of houses and apartments to meet the
                        peculiarities of his or, rather, of his wife's and
                        daughter'snotions of grandeur. It has a multitude of purveyors of
                        furnishings and decorations likewise designed to catch crude and grandiose
                        tastes. My wife was busy with these gentry.
                    "Don't you think we'd better go a little
                        slow?" said I. "Why not live in a hotel on Manhattan and
                        look about us?"
                    I had respect for my wife's capacity at the woman side of the game;
                        she had thoroughly drilled me to more than generous appreciation of it. But
                        at the same time I was not so blinded by her charm for me or so convinced by
                        her insistent and plausible egotism that I had not  noted certain minor failures of hers due to her ignorance of
                        the art of spending money. She was clever at learning. But often her vanity
                        lured her into fancying she knew, when in fact her education in that
                        particular direction was all miseducation. She dressed much more giddily in
                        our first years in Brooklyn than she did afterwards. And in the later years
                        she made still further discoveries as to dress that resulted in another
                        revolution, away from quietness, not toward the gaudy but toward
                        smartnessthat curious quality which makes a woman's toilet
                        conspicuous without the least suggestion of the loud.
                    However, Edna scorned my suggestion that she make haste slowly. She had long
                        been engaged in a thorough study of the mode of life in millionairedom.
                        Newspapers, Sunday supplements, magazines, and society novels had helped
                        her. She had examined the exteriors of the famous palaces. She had got into
                        the drawing-rooms and ballrooms of two or three palaces by way of
                        high-priced charity tickets. She had in one instance roamed into sitting
                        rooms, bedrooms, bathrooms until caught and led back by some vigilant and
                        unbribable servant. I wonder if she ever recalls that adventure now!
                        Probably not. I think I have recorded her ability absolutely to forget
                        whatever it pleases her not to remember. She had been educating herself, so
                        when I suggested caution, she replied:
                    "Don't you fret, Godfrey. I know what I'm about.
                        I'll get what we've got to have."
                    And I'll concede that she didalso, that I thought it overwhelmingly
                        grand at the time. It was a house  in a
                        fashionable side street, between Madison avenue and Fiftha magnificent house
                        built for exactly such a family as mine. That is, it was built entirely for
                        show and not at all for comfort; it fairly bristled with the luxuries and
                        "modern conveniences," but most of them were of the sort
                        that looks comfortable but is not. The rent was some preposterous
                        sumthirty-five or forty thousand a year. We had room enough for the housing
                        of nearly a hundred people, counting servants as people, which I believe is
                        not the custom. It was fitted through out in the fashion which those clever
                        leeches who think out and sell luxuries have in all ages imposed upon the
                        rich man because it means money in their pockets. Once in a while you find a
                        rich man who has the courage to live as he pleases, but most of them live as
                        the fashion commands. And many of them have no idea that there is any less
                        comfortless and less foolish way to live. You imagine, gentle reader, that
                        people with money live in beauty and comfort. You imagine that you could do
                        it also if you had but the wealth. Believe me, you deceive yourself. Beyond
                        question a certain amount of money is necessary to the getting of attractive
                        and comfortable surroundings. But there is another, an equally indispensable
                        and a far rarer factor. That factor, gentle reader, is intelligenceknowledge
                        of the resources of civilization, knowledge of the realities as to comfort,
                        luxury, and taste.
                    I am tempted to linger upon the details of the extravagance of that first big
                        establishment of Edna's. It was so astounding and so ridiculous. I
                        saw that she had delivered us and our fortune over to hordes of  crafty, thirsty bloodsuckersmerchants,
                        tradesmen, servants. But her heart was set upon it, and all other rich
                        people were living in that same way. "You want to do the right
                        thing by Margot, don't you?" said she.
                    "By you and Margot," said I. "Go ahead. I guess I
                        can find the money."
                    I shan't here go into the ways I discovered or invented for finding
                        that money. They were not too scrupulous, but neither were they commercially
                        dishonorable. I must smile there. Being of an inquiring and jocose mind I
                        have often tried to find an action that, in the opinion of the most eminent
                        commercial authorities, was absolutely dishonorable. Never yet have I found
                        a single action, however wrong and even criminal in general, that they would
                        not declare in certain circumstances perfectly honorable. And those
                        "certain circumstances" could always be boiled down to the
                        one circumstanceneeding the money.
                    I can't recall exactly how many servants we had to wait on us two,
                        but it was about thirty-five. I remember hearing my wife say one month that
                        our meat bill alone was about a thousand dollars. For a time I fancied we
                        were living more grandly than anyone else in town. But it soon revealed
                        itself to me that, as things went with "our class," we
                        were leading rather a simple life. Certainly nothing we did marked us out
                        from the others in that region. The sum totals suggested that servants stood
                        at the front windows all day long tossing money into the street. But nothing
                        of the kind occurred. You would have said we ate the finest food in
                        wholesale quantities. Yet never did I get a notably good meal at  my own house. The coffee was always poor. The
                        fruit was below the average of sidewalk stands. We often had cold-storage
                        fowls and fish on the table. We paid for the best; I'm sure we paid
                        for it many times over. We gotwhat one always gets when the wife is too
                        intellectual and too busy to attend to her business. But I assure you it was
                        grandly served. The linen and the dishes were royal, the servants were in
                        liveries of impressive color and formthough I could have wished that my wife
                        had been as sensitive to odors as I was, and had compelled some of those
                        magnificent gentry to do a little bathing. Throughout the establishment the
                        same superb scale was maintained. We lived like the rest of the
                        millionaires, neither better nor worse. We lived in grandeur and discomfort.
                        But my wife was ecstatic, and I was therefore content. Yes, we were very
                        grand. And, as in Brooklyn, the glasses came to the table with a certain
                        sour odor not alluring as you lifted them to drinkthe odor that causes an
                        observant man or woman to say, "Ahadirty rags in this perfect
                        lady's kitchendirty rags and all that goes with them." But
                        only a snarling cynic would complain of these vulgar trifles.
                        There's always at least a fly leg in the the ointment.
                    "Didn't I tell you I knew what I was about?" said
                        Edna triumphantly.
                    "You did," said I.
                    "Haven't we got what we wanted?"
                    "We have," said I, perhaps somewhat abruptly, for I was
                        just then wondering how the devil we were going to keep it.
                    
                    "And if it hadn't been for me," proceeded she,
                        "we'd still be living in Brooklyn! "
                    "Or in Passaic," said I.
                    "Don't speak of Passaic," she cried.
                        "I'm trying to forget it."
                    "We were very happy then," said I.
                    "I was miserable," retorted she.
                    "I could find it in my heart to wish we weren't always
                        attended by servants," said I."I almost never see you
                        alone."
                    "What a bourgeois you are," laughed she. Then after a
                        thorough glance round to make sure housekeeper or maid or lackey
                        wasn't on watchshe patted my cheek and kissed me, and added:
                        "But you do make me happy. I'm so proud of you! No matter
                        what I want I'm never afraid to buy it, for I know you can get all
                        the money you want to."
                    I winced. Said I: "I'm afraid you'd not be proud
                        of some of the ways I get the money."
                    She frowned. "Don't talk business, please," she
                        said. "You know we never have in all our married life.
                        You've always respected my position as your wife. All business is
                        lowis mere sordidness."
                    "Yes, it's all low," said I. "Sometimes I
                        think all living is low as well. Edna "I put my arm round her
                        "don't you ever feel that we'd be really happy,
                        that we'd get something genuine out of lifeif you and Margot and
                        I"
                    She stopped my mouth with a kiss. "You never will grow up to your
                        station, darling."
                    I said no more. Indeed, it was on hastiest impulse  that I had said so much, an impulse sprung from a mood of
                        depression.
                    The cause of that mood was a nasty reverse in Wall Street. It had rudely
                        halted me in my triumphant way toward the security of the man of many
                        millions. It had set me to wavering uncertainly, with the chances about even
                        for resuming the march and for tumbling into the abyss of a discreditable
                        bankruptcy.
                    There are in New York two well-defined classes of the richthe permanently
                        rich and the precariously rich. The permanently rich are those who by the
                        vastness of their wealth or by the strength of their business and social
                        connections cannot possibly be dislodged from the plutocracy. The
                        precariously rich are those who have much money and are making more, but are
                        not strong enough to survive a series of typhoons, and are without the
                        support of indissoluble business and social connections. My friend G, for
                        example, head of the famous banking house, associated in business and by
                        marriage with half the permanent plutocracy, was practically bankrupt in the
                        late panic. Had he been a man of ordinary position he would have gone into
                        bankruptcy, and, I more than suspect, into jail. But his fellow plutocrats
                        dared not let him drop, much as they would have liked to see his arrogance
                        brought low, much as they longed to divide among themselves his holdings of
                        gilt-edged securities; if he had gone down it would have made the whole
                        financial world tremble. He was saved. On the other hand, my friend J,
                        richer actually, was ruined, was plucked by his associates, was finally
                        jailed for doing precisely the  things every
                        man of finance did over and over again in that same period of stressfor,
                        what invariably happens to moral codes in periods of stress?
                    I was at that timebut not now, gentle reader, so cheer up and read onI was at
                        that time in the class not of the permanently but of the precariously rich.
                        And through a miscalculation I had laid myself open to the dangers that lie
                        in wait for the man short of ready cash. The miscalculation was as to the
                        extravagance of my wife's undertakings. She, against my express
                        request, had contracted without consulting or telling me several enormous
                        bills. It is idle to say she ought not have done this. I knew her well; I
                        should have been on guard. I had begun my married life wrong, as the young
                        man very much in love is apt to do; so, to hold her love and liking, I had
                        to keep on giving her taste for spending money free rein. If I had not, she
                        would have thought me small and mean, would have made life at home
                        exceedingly uncomfortable for me, for I am not of those men who can take
                        from a woman what they wish whether she wishes to give or not. So the whole
                        fault was mine. When the storm broke, in the light of its first terrific
                        flash that illuminated for me every part of my affairs, I discovered that I
                        was not prepared as I had been imagining. The big bills of my wife were
                        presented, for the merchants knew I was heavily interested in the stocks
                        that were tobogganing. Those bills had to be paid, and paid at once, or it
                        would run like wildfire uptown and down that I was in difficulties; and when
                        a man is known to be in financial difficulties, how the birds and beasts of
                        prey from eagles  and lions to buzzards and
                        jackals do come flapping and loping!
                    There followed several anxious days and nights. On one of those nights I rose
                        from beside my wifewe still slept togetherand went into the adjoining room.
                        I turned on an electric light and began for the thousandth time, I dare say,
                        to look at the critical papers and to grope for the desperate "way
                        out." I was startled by my wife's voicesleepy, peevish:
                    "Do turn out that light and come to bed, Godfrey. You know how it
                        disturbs me for you to get up in the night. And I've such a hard
                        day before me tomorrow with the upholsterers and curtain people."
                    I obediently turned off the light. As I was about to throw myself into bed
                        and draw the covers over me, a broad beam from the moon flooded the face of
                        a portrait on the opposite wallthe face of my daughter Margot. I sat on the
                        edge of the bed and looked at that facepure, sweet, with the same elevated
                        expression her mother had in these days of refinement and climbing. Said I
                        to Edna:
                    "Are you asleep, dear?"
                    "No," she answered crossly. "I'm waiting
                        for you to quiet down."
                    "Thenlet me talk to you a few minutes."
                    "Oh, please! "she cried, flinging herself to the far edge
                        of the bed. "You have no consideration for menone at all."
                    "Listen," I said. "I'm face to face with
                        ruin."
                    She did not move or speak, but I could feel her intense attention.
                    
                    "If I let matters take their course I can save my reputation and my
                        official position. But for many years we'll have to live
                        quietlyabout as we did in Brooklyn."
                    "I can't do that," cried she.
                        "The fall would kill me. You know how proud I am.... Just as I had
                        everything ready for us to get into society! Godfrey, how could you! And I
                        thought you were clever at business."
                    I could not see her, nor she me, except in dimmest outline. I said:
                        "But we'd have each other and Margot. And my salary
                        isn't so small, as salaries go."
                    "Isn't there any way to avoid
                        it?" She was sitting up in bed, her nervous fingers upon my arm.
                        "You must think, Godfrey. You mustn't
                        play Margot and me this horrible trick. You mustn't give up so
                        easily. You must thinkthinkthink!"
                    "I have," said I. "I've not slept for
                        three days and nights. There's no wayno honest way."
                    "Then there is a way! " she cried.
                    "But not an honest one."
                    She laughed scornfully. "And you pretend to love me! When my life
                        and Margot's happiness are at stake you talk like a Sunday-school
                        boy."
                    "Yes," said I. "And I've been thinking
                        more or less that way lately for the first time in years. It wasn't
                        long after I started when I cut my business eye teeth. I found out that as
                        the game lay I'd not get far if I stuck to the old maxims of the
                        copy book and the Sunday school. Except by accident nobody ever got rich who
                        followed them. To get rich you've got to make  a lot of people work for you and work cheap, and
                        you've got to sell what they make as dear as you can. Success in
                        business means taking advantage of the ignorance or the necessities of your
                        fellow men, or both."
                    "Don't waste time talking that kind of nonsense,"
                        said she impatiently. "It doesn't mean anything to meor to
                        anybody, I guess. The thing for you to do is to put your mind on the real
                        thinghow to save your family and yourself."
                    "That's what I'm talking about," said I.
                        "I'm talking about saving myself and my family. As I told
                        you, my troublesthe first business troubles I've ever hadhave set
                        me to thinking. I've not been doing right all these years.
                        It's true, everybody does as I've been doing.
                        It's true I've been more generous and more considerate
                        than most men with opportunities and the sense to see them. But
                        I've been doing wrong."
                    I paused, hoping for some sign of sympathy. None came. I went on:
                    "And I've been wondering these last few days if by doing it
                        I haven't been ruining myself and my family not financially, but in
                        more important ways. Edna, what's the sense in this life
                        we're leading? What will be the end of it all? Is there any decency
                        or happiness in it? Haven't we been going backward instead of
                        forward?"
                    All the time I was talking I could feel she was not listening. When I
                        finished she said: "Godfrey, what is this way you can escape
                        by?"
                    "I can sell out my partners in the deals that have gone
                        bad."
                    
                    "Perhaps they're selling you
                        out," she instantly suggested. "Why, of course they are
                        doing that very thing!while you are driveling about
                        honesty like a backwoods hypocrite of a church deacon."
                    "No, they're not selling me out," said I.
                    "How do you know? "cried she.
                    "I caught them at that trick in a former deal and in the early
                        stages of this one. And I fixed things so that, while they have to trust me,
                        I don't trust them."
                    She laughed mockingly. "Godfrey, I think your mind must be going.
                        You talking about sacrificing your fortune and your wife and your child for
                        men who've tried to ruin youmen who are even now thinking out some
                        scheme for doing it... Suppose you saved yourself and let them gowhat then?
                        Wouldn't you be rich? And when you were secure again
                        couldn't you pay them back what they lost if you were still foolish
                        enough to think it necessary?"
                    It was not the first time she had astonished me with the depth of her
                        practical insightand her skill at logicwhen she cared to use her mind.
                        "I had thought of saving myself and paying back
                        afterwards," said I. "But I'm not sure
                        I'd save myself. It's simply my one chance."
                    "Then you've got to take that chance," said she.
                    "I didn't expect you to talk like this," said I.
                        "The only reason I haven't spoken of my troubles before
                        was that I feared you'd forbid me to do what I was being tempted to
                        do."
                    And that was the truth about my feeling. I had always heardand had firmly
                        believedthat woman  was somehow the exemplar
                        of ideal morality, that it was she who kept men from being worse than they
                        were, that the evil being done by men pursuing success was done without the
                        knowledge of their pure, idealist wives and mothers and daughters. I
                        can't account for my stupidity in this respect. Had I not on every
                        side the spectacle that gave the lie to the shallow pretense of feminine
                        moral superiority? Was it not the women, with their insatiable appetite for
                        luxury and splurge; was it not the women, with their incessant demands for
                        money and ever more money; was it not the women, with their profound
                        immorality of any and every class that earns nothing and simply spends; was
                        it not the women, the ladies, who were edging on the men
                        to get money, no matter how? For whom were the grand houses, the expensive
                        hotels, the exorbitant flimsy clothing, the costly jewelry, the equipages,
                        the opera boxes, the senseless, spendthrift squandering upon the degrading
                        vanities of social position?
                    I laughed somewhat cynically. "No wonder you've always
                        refused to learn anything about business," said I.
                        "It's a habit among big business men to refuse to know
                        anything as to the details of a large transaction that can be carried
                        through only by dirty work. If we don't know, we can pretend that
                        the dirty work isn't being done by or for usisn't being
                        done at all."
                    "Now you are getting coarse," said my wife. "Do
                        you know what I think of you?" I could not see her expression, but
                        the voice always betrays if there is insincerity, because we do not deal
                        enough with the blind to learn to deceive perfectly with the voice. Her
                        tones  were absolutely sincere as she answered
                        her own question: "I think it is cowardly of you to come to me with
                        your business troubles. If you were brave you'd simply have quietly
                        done whatever was necessary to save your family. Yes, it is
                        cowardly!"
                    "I didn't mean it as cowardice," said I, admiring
                        but irritated by this characteristic adroitness. "In the stories
                        and the plays that give such thrills, the husband, in the crisis and tempted
                        to do wrong, appeals to his wife. And they are brought closer together, and
                        she helps him to do right, and everything ends happily." Again I
                        laughed good-humoredly. "It doesn't seem to be turning out
                        that way, does it, dear? My heavenly picture of you and Margot and me living
                        modestly and making up in love what we lack in luxuryit doesn't
                        attract you?"
                    She said in her patient, superior tone: "I suppose you never will
                        understand me or my ideals. What you've been doing in annoying me
                        with your business, it's as if when I was giving a dinner I
                        assembled my guests and compelled them to watch all the preparations for the
                        dinnerthe killing of the lambs and the fish and the birds, the-cleaning, all
                        those ugly and low things. Bringing business into the home and the social
                        life, it's like bringing the kitchen into the
                        drawing-room."
                    The obvious answer to this shallow but plausible and attractive cleverness of
                        hers did not come to me then. If it had I'd not have spoken it. For
                        of what use to argue with the human animal, female or male, about its
                        dearest selfishnesses and vanities? Of what use to point  out to human self-complacence, greediness and
                        hypocrisy that a "refined "and "cultured
                        "existence of ease and luxury can be obtained only by the theft and
                        murder of dishonest businessthat for one man to be vastly rich thousands of
                        men must somehow be robbed and oppressed, even though the rich man himself
                        directly does no robbing and oppressing? If I have sucking pig for dinner, I
                        kill sucking pig as surely as if my hand wielded the knife of the butcher.
                        But the human race finds it convenient and comfortable not to think so.
                        Therefore, let us not bother our heads about it.
                    At that period of my career I had not thought things out so thoroughly as I
                        have sincein these days when events have compelled me to open my eyes and to
                        see. In my hypocrisy, in my eagerness to save myself, I was not loth to take
                        refuge behind the advice given by my wife partly in genuine ignorance of
                        business, partly in pretended ignorance of it.
                    Said I: "I suppose you're right. I ought to think only of
                        my family. Heaven knows, my rascal friends aren't thinking in my
                        interest. If I don't do it, no one will. There's no
                        disputing thateh?"
                    No reply. She was asleepor, rather,,was pretending to be asleep. The matter
                        had been settled, why discuss it further? Why expose herself longer than
                        unavoidable to the danger of being unable to be, or to pretend to be,
                        ignorant of business, of the foundation upon which her splendid, cultured
                        structure of ambition proudly reared?
                    Often in her sleep her hand would seek mine, and when it was comfortably
                        nestled she would give a little  sigh of
                        content that thrilled me through and through. Her hand now stole into mine
                        and the sigh of content came softly from her lips. "My
                        love," I murmured, kissing her cheek before I lay down. How could I
                        for a minute have considered any course that would have made her unhappy,
                        that might have lessened, perhaps destroyed, her love for me?
                
                
                
                    IV
                    IT is hardly necessary to say that I threw overboard my
                        partners and saved myself. Indeed, I emerged from the crisisliberally
                        bespattered with mud, it is truebut richer than when I entered it. Since I
                        was doing the act that was the supreme proof of my possessing the courage
                        and the skill for leadership in businesssince I was definitely breaking with
                        the old-fashioned moralityI felt it was the part of wisdom to do the thing
                        so thoroughly, so profitably, that instead of being execrated I should be
                        admired. There were attacks on me in the newspapers; there were painful
                        interviews with my partnersnot so painful to me as they would have been had
                        I not been able to remind them of their own unsuccessful treacheries and to
                        enforce the spoken reminder with the documentary proof. But on the whole I
                        came off excellently wellas who does not that "gets away with the
                        goods?"
                    In these days of increased intelligence and consequent lessened hypocrisy,
                        the big business man is the object of only perfunctory hypocrisies from
                        outraged morality. It has been discovered that the farmer watering his milk
                        or the grocer using solder-" mended "scales is as bad as
                        the man who "reorganizes "a railway or manipulates  a stockis worse actually because the massed
                        mischief of the million little business rascals is greater than the
                        sensational misdeeds of the few great rascals. It has been discovered that
                        human nature is good or bad only according to the opportunities and
                        necessities, not according to abstract moral standards. And the cry is no
                        longer, "Kill the coundrel," but, "That fellow
                        had the sense to outwit us. We must learn from him how to sharpen our wits
                        so that we won't let ourselves be robbed. "A healthful
                        sign this, that masses of men are ceasing from twaddle about vague ideals
                        and are educating themselves in practical horse sense. It may be that some
                        day the honest husbandman will learn to guard his granary not only against
                        the robber with the sack in the dark of the morn, but also against the rats
                        and mice who pilfer ten bushels to everyone that is stolen. Of one thing I
                        am certainuntil men learn to take heed in the small, they will remain easy
                        prey in the large.
                    Far from doing me harm, my bold stroke was of the greatest benefitfrom the
                        standpoint of material success, and that is the only point of view I am here
                        considering. It did me as much good with the world as it has done me with
                        you, gentle reader. For while you are exclaiming against my wickedness you
                        are in your secret heart confessing that if I had chosen the ideally honest
                        course, had retired to obscurity and poverty, you would have approvedand
                        would have lost interest in me. Why, if I had chosen that ideal course, I
                        doubt not I should have lost my railway position. My directors would have
                        waxed enthusiastic over my "old-fashioned  honesty," and would have looked round for another and
                        shrewder and stronger man to whom to intrust the management of their
                        railwaywhich would not pay dividends were it run along the lines of
                        old-fashioned honesty. The outburst of denunciation soon spent itself, like
                        a summer storm beating the giant cliffs of a mountain. Of what use to rage
                        futilely against my splendid immovable fortune? The attacks, the talk about
                        my bold stroke, the exaggerations of the size of the fortune I had made, all
                        served to attract attention to me, to make me a formidable and an
                        interesting figure. I leaped from obscurity into fame and powerand I had the
                        money to maintain the position I had won.
                    Long before, indeed as soon as we moved to Manhattan, my wife had joined
                        fashionable and exclusive Holy Cross Church and had plunged straightway into
                        its charity work. A highly important part of her Brooklyn education had been
                        got in St. Mary's, in learning how to do charity work and how to
                        make it count socially. Edna genuinely loved charity work. She loved to
                        patronize, loved to receive those fawning blessings and handkissings which
                        city poverty becomes adept at giving the rich it lives off of. The poor
                        family understands perfectly that the rich visit and help not through mere
                        empty sentimental nonsense of brotherhood, but to have their vanities
                        tickled in exchange for the graciousness of their condescending presence and
                        for the money they lay out. As the poor want the money and have no objection
                        to paying for it  with that cheap and
                        plentiful commodity, cringingscantily screening mockery and contemptrich and
                        poor meet most comfortably in our cities. Not New York alone, but any center
                        of population, for human nature is the same, city and country, San
                        Francisco, BangorPekin or Paris, for that matter.
                    There is a shallow fashion of describing this or that as peculiarly New York,
                        usually snobbishness or domestic unhappiness or wealth worship, dishonest
                        business men or worthless wives. It is time to have done with such nonsense.
                        New York is in no way peculiar, nor is any other place, beyond trifling
                        surface differences. New York is nothing but the epitome of the whole
                        country, just as Chicago is. If you wish to understand America, study New
                        York or Chicago, our two universal cities. There you find in one place and
                        in admirable perspective a complete museum of specimens of what is scattered
                        over three and a half million square miles. For, don't forget, New
                        York is not the few blocks of fashionable district alone. It is four million
                        people of all conditions, tastes, and activities. And the dominant force of
                        struggle for money and fashion is no more dominant in New York than it is in
                        the rest of America. New York is more truly representative of America than
                        is Chicago, for in Chicago the Eastern and Southern elements are lacking and
                        the Western element is strong out of proportion.
                    I was telling of my wife's blossoming as Lady Bountiful in search
                        not of a heavenly crown, but of what human Lady Bountiful always seekssocial
                        position. Charity covers a multitude of sins; the greatest of them  is hypocrisy. I have yet to see a charitable
                        man or woman or child whose chief and only noteworthy object was not
                        self-glorification. The people who believe in brotherhood do not go in for
                        charity. They wish to abolish poverty, whereas charity revels in poverty and
                        seeks to increase it, to change it from miserable poverty which might die
                        into comfortable pauperism which can live on, and fester and breed on, and
                        fawn on and give vanity ever more and more exquisite titillations. Holy
                        Cross, my wife's new spiritual guide, was past master of the
                        pauper-making and pauper-utilizing arts. Its rector and his staff of slimy
                        sycophants had the small standing army of its worthy poor trained to
                        perfection. When my wife went down among them, she returned home with face
                        aglow and eyes heavenly. What a treat those wretches had given her! And in
                        the first blush of her enthusiasm she dispensed lavishly, where the older
                        members of the church exacted the full measure of titillation for every
                        dollar invested and awarded extra sums only to some novelty in lickspittling
                        or toadeating.
                    Were I not sure I should quite wear out the forbearance of gentle reader, I
                        should linger to describe this marvelous charity plant for providing idle or
                        social-position-hunting rich women with spiritual pleasuresI had almost said
                        debaucheries, but that would be intruding my private and perhaps prejudiced
                        opinion. I have no desire to irritate, much less shake the faith of, those
                        who believe in Holy Cross and its "uplift" work. And I
                        don't suppose Holy Cross does any great amount of harm. The poor
                        who prostitute themselves to its purposes are weak things, beyond
                        redemption.  As for the rich who waste time
                        and money there, would they not simply waste elsewhere were there no Holy
                        Cross?
                    My wife was, at that time, a very ignorant woman, thinly covered with a
                        veneer of what I now know was a rather low grade of culture. That veneer
                        impressed me. It had impressed our Brooklyn friends of St. Mary's.
                        But I fancy it must have looked cheap to expert eyes. Where her surpassing
                        shrewdness showed itself was in that she herself recognized her own
                        shortcomings. Rare and precious is the vanity that comforts and sustains
                        without self-deception. She knew she wasn't the real thing, knew
                        she had not yet got hold of the real thing. And when she began to move
                        about, cautiously and quietly, in Holy Cross, she realized that at last she
                        was in the presence of the real thing.
                    My big responsibilities, my associations in finance, had been giving me a
                        superb training in worldly wisdom. I think I had almost as strong a natural
                        aptitude for "catching on" to the better thing in speech
                        and manner and in dress as had Edna. It is not self-flattery for me to say
                        that up to the Holy Cross period I was further advanced than she. Certainly
                        I ought to have been, for a man has a much better opportunity than a woman,
                        and one of the essentials of equipment for great affairs is ability to
                        observe accurately the little no less than the large. Looking back, I recall
                        things which lead me to suspect that Edna saw my superiority in certain
                        matters most important to her, and was irritated by it. However that may be,
                        a few months in Holy Cross and she had grasped the essentials of the  social art as I, or any other masculine man,
                        never could grasp it. And her veneer of "middle-class"
                        culture disappeared under a thick and enduring coating of the best New York
                        manner.
                    "What has become of you?" I said to her.
                        "I haven't seen you in weeks."
                    "I don't understand," said she, ruffling as she
                        always did when she suspected me of indulging in my coarse and detestable
                        sense of humor.
                    "Why, you don't act like yourself at all," said I.
                        "Even when we're alone you give the uncomfortable sense of
                        dressed-upnot as if you were
                        'dressed-up,' but as if I were. I feel
                        like a plowboy before a princess."
                    She was delighted!
                    "You," I went on, "are now exactly like the rest
                        of those women in Holy Cross. I suppose it's all right to look and
                        talk and act that way before people. At least, I've no objection if
                        it pleases you. But for heaven's sake, Edna, don't spoil
                        our privacy with it. The queen doesn't wear her coronation robes
                        all the time."
                    "I'm sure I don't know what you mean,"
                        said she.
                    "Don't you?" cried I, laughing. "What a
                        charming fraud you are!" And I seized her in my arms and kissed
                        her. And she seemed to yield and to return my caresses. But I was
                        uncomfortable. She would not drop that new manner. The incident seems
                        trifling enough; perhaps it was trifling. But it stands out in my memory. It
                        marks the change in our relationship. I recall it all distinctlyhow she
                        looked, how young and charming and cold, what she was wearing, the delicate
                             simple dress that ought to have made her
                        most alluring to me, yet made me feel as if she were indeed alluring, but
                        not for me. A subtle difference there, but abysmal; the
                        difference between the woman who tries to make herself attractive for the
                        sake of her husband and the woman who makes toilets in the conscious or
                        half-conscious longing successfully to prostitute herself to the eyes of the
                        public. I recall every detail of that incident; yet I have only the vaguest
                        recollection of our beginning to occupy separate bedrooms. By that time the
                        feeling of alienation must have grown so strong that I took the radical
                        change in our habits as the matter of course.
                    Many are the women, in all parts of the earth, who have sought to climb into
                        the world of fashion by the broad and apparently easy stairway of charity.
                        But most of them have failed because they were unaware of the secret of that
                        stairway, an unsuspected secret which I shall proceed to point out. It
                        seems, as I have said, a particularly easy stairwaybroad, roomy, with
                        invalid steps. It is, in fact, a moving stairway so cunningly contrived that
                        sheit is usually shewho ascends keeps in the same place. She goes up, but at
                        exactly her ascending rate the stairway goes down. She sees other women
                        making apparently no more effort than she ascending rapidly, and presently
                        entering the earthly heaven at the top. Yet there she stands, marking time,
                        moving not one inch upward, and there she will stand until she wearies,
                        relaxes her efforts, and finds herself rapidly descending. But how do the
                        women who ascend accomplish it? I do not know. You must ask them. I only
                        know the cause of the failure  of the women
                        who do not ascend. If I knew why the others succeeded I should not tell it.
                        I would not deprive fashionable women of the joy of occupying a difficult
                        height from which they can indulge themselves in the happiness of sneering
                        and spitting down at their lowlier sisters. And I have no sympathy with the
                        aspirations or the humiliations of those lowlier sisters.
                    My energetic and aspiring wife presently found herself on this stairway, with
                        no hint as to its secret, much less as to the way of overcoming its
                        peculiarity. She toiled daily in Holy Cross. She subscribed to everything,
                        she helped in everything. She was the proud recipient of the
                        rector's loud praises as his "most devoted, least worldly,
                        most spiritual helper." Butnot an invitation of the kind she
                        wanted. Everyone was "just lovely" to her. Whenever any
                        charitable or spiritual matter was to be discussed, no matter how grand and
                        exclusive the house in which the discussion was to be held, there was my
                        wife in a place of honor, eagerly consultedand urged to subscribe. But
                        nothing unworldly. They understood how spiritual she was, did those sweet,
                        good people. They knew Saint Edna wished no social frivolitiesno dinners or
                        theater parties, no bridge or dancing.
                    She was a wise lady. She hid her burning impatience. She smiled and purred
                        when she yearned to scowl and scratch. She waited, and prayed for some lucky
                        accident that would swing her across the invisible, apparently nonexistent
                        but actually impassable dead line. She had expected snubs and cold
                        shoulders.  Never a snub, never a cold
                        shoulder. Always smiles and gracious handshakings and amiable familiarities,
                        but those always of the kind that serve to accentuate caste distinction
                        instead of removing it. For the first time in her life, I think, she was
                        completely stumped. She could combat obstacles. She might even have found a
                        way to fight fog. But how ridiculous to make struggles and thrust out fists
                        when there is nothing but empty, sunny air!
                    She held church lunches and dinners at our houseof course, had me on duty at
                        the dinners. All in vain. The distinction between the spiritual and the
                        temporal remained in force. The grand people came, acted as if they were
                        delighted, complimented her on her house, on her hospitality, went away, to
                        invite her to similar dreary functions at their houses. And my, how it did
                        cost her! No wonder Holy Cross made a pet of her and elected me to the,
                        board of vestrymen.
                    Once in a while she would find something in her net, so slyly cast, so softly
                        drawn. She would have a wild spasm of joy; then the something would turn out
                        to be another climber like herself. Those climbers avoided each other as
                        devils dodge the font of holy water. The climber she would have caught would
                        be one who, ignorant of the intricacies of New York society, was under the
                        impression that the Mrs. Godfrey Loring so conspicuous in Holy Cross must be
                        a social personage. They would examine each otherat a series of joyous
                        entertainments each would provide for the other, would discover their mutual
                        mistakeand You know the contemptuous toss with which the fisherman rids
                        himself  of a bloater; you know the hysterical
                        leap of the released bloater back into the water.
                    But how it was funny! My wife did not take me into her confidence as to her
                        social struggles. She maintained with me the same sweet, elegant exterior of
                        spiritual placidity with which she faced the rest of the world.
                        Nevertheless, in a dim sort of way I had some notion of what she was
                        aboutthough, as I was presently to discover, I was wholly mistaken in my
                        idea of her progress.
                    "What has happened to Mrs. Lestrange?" I said to her one
                        evening at dinner. "Is she ill?"
                    She cast a quick, nervous glance in the direction of the butler. I, looking
                        at him by way of a mirror, thought I saw upon his aristocratic countenance a
                        faint trace of that insolent secret glee which fills servants when their
                        betters are humiliated before them. "Mrs. Lestrange?" she
                        said carelessly. "Oh, I see her now and then."
                    "But you've been inseparable until lately," said
                        I. "A quarrel, I suppose?"
                    "Not at all," said my wife tartly.
                    And she shifted abruptly to another subject. When I went to the little study
                        adjoining my sitting room to smoke she came with me. There she said:
                    "Please don't mention Mrs. Lestrange before the servants
                        again."
                    "Why, what's up?" said I. "Did she turn
                        out to be a crook?"
                    "Heavens, no! How coarse you are, Godfrey. Simply that I was
                        terribly mistaken in her."
                    
                    "She looked like a confidence woman or a madam," said I.
                        "Didn't you tell me she was a howling swell? "
                    "I thought she was," said my wife, and I knew something
                        important was coming; only that theory would account for her admitting she
                        had made a mistake. "And in a way she was. But they caught her
                        several years ago taking money to get some dreadful low Western people into
                        society. Since then she's askedshe herselfbecause she's
                        well connected and amusing. But she can't help anyone
                        else."
                    "Oh, I see," said I. "And you don't feel
                        strong enough socially as yet to be able to afford the luxury of her
                        friendship."
                    "Strong enough!"said Edna with intense bitterness.
                        "I have no position at allnone whatever."
                    I was surprised, for until that moment I had been assuming she was on or near
                        the top of the wave, moving swiftly toward triumphant success. "You
                        want too much," said I. "You've really got all
                        there is to get. At that last reception of yours you had all the heavy
                        swells. My valet told me so."
                    "Reception to raise funds for the orphanage," said Edna
                        with a vicious sneerthe unloveliest expression I had ever seen on her lovely
                        faceand I had seen not a few unlovely expressions there in our many married
                        years, some of them extremely trying years. "I tell you I am nobody
                        socially. They take my money for their rotten old charities. They use me for
                        their tiresome church workand they do nothing for menothing! How I hate them! "
                    I sat smoking my cigar and watching her face. It  was a wonderfully young face. Not that she was so old; on the contrary,
                        she was still young in years. I call her face wonderfully young because it
                        had that look of inexhaustible, eternal youth which is rare even in the
                        faces of boys and girls. But that evening I was not thinking so much of her
                        youth and her beauty as of a certain expression of hardness, of evil
                        passions rampantenvy and hatred and jealousy, savage disappointment over
                        defeats in sordid battles.
                    "Edna," said I, hesitatingly, "why don't
                        you drop all that? Can't you see there's nothing in it?
                        You're tempting the worst things in your nature to grow and destroy
                        all that's good and sweetall that makes youand mehappy. People
                        aren't necessary to us. And if you must have friends, surely all the attractive people in New York aren't in
                        that little fashionable set. Judging from what I've seen of them,
                        they're a lot of bores."
                    "They look bored here," retorted she. "And no
                        wonder! They come as a Christian duty."
                    I laughed. "Now, honestly, are those fashionable people the best
                        educated, the best in any wayany real way? I've talked with the
                        men, and the younger onesthe ones that go in for societyare unspeakable
                        rotters. I wouldn't have them about."
                    Edna's eyes flashed, and her form quivered in a gust of hysterical
                        furythe breaking of long-pent passion, of anger and despair, taking me as an
                        excuse for vent. "Oh, it's terrible to be married to a man
                        who always misunderstands!one who can't
                        sympathize!" cried she. It was a remark she often made, but never
                        before had she put so much energy, so much bitterness into it.
                    
                    "What do I misunderstand?" I asked, more hurt than I cared
                        to show. "Where don't I sympathize?"
                    "Let's not talk about it!" exclaimed she.
                        "If I weren't a remarkable woman I'd have given
                        up long agoI'd give up now."
                    Before you smile at her egotism, gentle reader, please remember that husband
                        and wife were talking alone; also that with a few pitiful exceptions all
                        human beings think surpassingly well of themselves, and do not hesitate to
                        express that good opinion privately. I guess there's more lying
                        done about lack of egotism and of vanity generally than about all other
                        matters put together.
                    Said I: "You are indeed a wonder, dear. In this country one sees
                        many astonishing transformations. But I doubt if there have been many equal
                        to the transformation of the girl I married into the girl who's
                        sitting before me."
                    "And what good has it done me?" demanded she. "How
                        I've worked away at myselfinside and outand all for
                        nothing!"
                    "You've still got me" said I
                        jovially, yet in earnest too. "Lots of women lose their husbands.
                        I've never had a single impulse to wander."
                    In the candor of that intimacy she gave me a most unflattering looka look a
                        woman does well not to cast at a man unless she is more absolutely sure of
                        him than anyone can be of anything in this uncertain world. I laughed as if
                        I thought she meant that look as a jest; I put the look away in my memory
                        with a mark on it that meant "to be taken out and examined at
                        leisure."
                    
                    But she was absorbed in her chagrin over her social failure; she probably
                        hardly realized I was there.
                    "Well, what's the next move?" inquired I
                        presently.
                    "You've got to help," replied sheand I knew this
                        was what she had been revolving in her mind all evening.
                    "Anything that doesn't take me away from business, or keep
                        me up too late to fit myself for the next day."
                    "Businessalways business," said she, in deepest disgust.
                        "Do you never think of anything else?"
                    "My business and my familythat's my life," said I.
                    "Not your family," replied she. "You care nothing
                        about them."
                    "Edna," I said sharply, "that is unjust and
                        untrue."
                    "Oh, you give them money, if that's what you
                        mean," said she disdainfully.
                    "And I give them love," said I. "The trouble is I
                        give so freely that you don't value it."
                    "Oh, you are a good husband," said she carelessly.
                        "But I want you to take an interest."
                    "In your social climbing?"
                    "How insulting you are!" she cried, with flashing eyes.
                        "I am trying to claim the position we are entitled to, and you
                        speak of me as if I were one of those vulgar pushers."
                    "I beg your pardon," said I humbly. "I was merely
                        joking."
                    "I've often told you that your idea of humor was
                        revolting."
                    
                    I felt distressed for her in her chagrin and despair. I was ready to bear
                        almost anything she might see fit to inflict. "What do you want me
                        to do?" I asked. "Whatever it is, I'll do it. Do
                        you need more money?"
                    "I need helpreal help," said she.
                    "Money's god over the realm of fashion, the same as it is
                        over that ofof religionof politicsor anything you please. And luckily
                        I've got that little god in my employ, my dear."
                    "If you are so powerful," said she, "put me into
                        fashionable societymake these people receive me and come to my
                        house."
                    "But they do," I reminded her.
                    "I mean socially," cried she.
                            "Can't I make you understand? Why
                        are business men so dumb at anything else? Compel these people to take me as
                        one of them."
                    "Now, Edna, my dear," protested I, "be reasonable.
                        How can I do that?"
                    "Easily, if you've got real power," rejoined she.
                        "It's been done often, I've found out lately. At
                        least half the leaders in society got in originally by compelling it. But
                        you, going round among men intimatelyyou must know itmust have known all
                        along. If you'd been the right sort of man I'd not have to
                        humiliate myself by asking youby saying these dreadful things." Her
                        eyes were flashing and her bosom was heaving. "Women have hated men
                        for less. But I must bear my cross. You insist on degrading me. Very well.
                        I'll let myself be degraded. I'll say the things a decent
                        man would not ask a woman to say 
                        "Edna, darling," I pleaded. "Honestly, I
                        don't understand. You'll have to tell me. And
                        it's not degrading. We have no secrets from each other. We who love
                        each other can say anything to each otheranything. What do you wish me to
                        do?"
                    "Use your power over the men. Frighten them into ordering their
                        wives to invite us and to accept our invitations. You do business with a lot
                        of the men, don't you?"
                    "Yes," said I.
                    "You can benefit or injure them, as you please, can't
                        you?can take money away from themcan put them in the way of making
                        it?"
                    "Yes," said I; "to a certain extent."
                    "And how do you use this power?"
                    "In building up great enterprises. I am founding a city just now,
                        for instance, where there was nothing but a swamp beside a lake, and
                    "In making more and more money for yourself," she cut in,
                        "you think only of yourself."
                    "And youwhat do you think of?" said I.
                    "Not of myself," cried she indignantly. "Never of
                        myself. Of Margot. Of you. Of the family. I am working to build us upto make us somebody and not mere low money
                        grubbers."
                    I did not see it from her point of view. But I was not inclined to aggravate
                        her excitement and anger.
                    "Why shouldn't you use your powers for some unselfish
                        purpose?" she went on. "Why not try to have higher
                        ambition?"
                    I observed her narrowly. She was sincere.
                    
                    "I want you to help mefor Margot's sake, for your own
                        sake," she went on in a kind of exaltation. "Margot is
                        coming on. She'll be out in less than three years. We've
                        got to make a position for her."
                    "I thought, up there at Miss Hyper's she was"
                    "That shows how little interest you take!" cried Edna.
                        "Don't you know what is happening? Why, already the
                        fashionable girls at her school are beginning to shy off from her"
                    "Don't be absurd!" laughed I. "That
                        simply could not be. She's lovely, sweet, attractive in every way.
                        Any girls anywhere would be proud to have her as a friend."
                    "How can you be so ignorant of the
                        world!" cried Edna in a frenzy of exasperation. "Oh,
                        you'll drive me mad with your stupidity! Can't you realize
                        how low fashionable people are. The girls who were her
                        friends so long as they were ail mere children are now taking a positive
                        delight in snubbing her, because she's so pretty and will be an
                        heiress. It gives them a sense of power to treat her as an inferior, to make
                        her suffer."
                    I flung away the cigar and sat up in the chair. "How long has this
                        been going on?" I demanded.
                    "Nearly a year," replied my wife. "It began as
                        soon as she lost her childishness and developed toward a woman. I'm
                        glad I've roused you at last. So long as she was a mere baby they
                        liked herinvited her to their children's partiescame to hers. But
                        now they're dropping her. Oh, it's maddening! They are so
                        sweet and smooth, the vile little daughters of vile mothers!"
                    "Incredible!" said I. "Surely not those sweet,  well-mannered girls I've seen here
                        at her parties? They couldn't do that sort of
                        thing. Why, what do those babies know about social position and such
                        nonsense?"
                    "What do they know? What don't they
                        know?" cried Edna, trembling with rage at her humiliation and at my
                        incredulity. "You are an innocent! There ought to
                        be a new proverbinnocent as a married man. Why, nowadays the children begin
                        their social training in the cradle. They soon learn to know a nurse or a
                        butler from a lady or a gentleman before they learn to walk. They hear the
                        servants talk. They hear their parents talk. Except innocent you everyone
                        nowadays thinks and talks about these things."
                    "But Margotour Margotshe doesn't know!" I said
                        with conviction.
                    Edna laughed harshly. "Know? What kind of mother do you think I am?
                        Of course she knows. Haven't I been teaching her ever since she
                        began to talk? Why do you suppose I've always called her the little
                        duchess?"
                    "She suggests a superior little person," said I, groping
                        vaguely.
                    "She suggests a superior person because I gave her that name and
                        brought her up to look and act and feel the part. She expects to be a real
                        duchess some day" Edna reared proudly, and her voice rang out
                        confidently as she added" and she shall be!"
                    I stared at her. It seemed to me she must be out of her mind. Oh, I was
                        indeed innocent, gentle reader.
                    "I've always treated her as a duchess, and have made the
                        servants do it, and have trained her to treat 
                        them as if she were a duchess." A proud smile came into her face,
                        transforming it suddenly back to its loveliness. "The first time I
                        ever read about a duchessread, knowing what I was reading aboutI decided
                        that I would have a daughter and that she should be a duchess."
                    At any previous time such a sally would have made me laugh. But not then, for
                        I saw that she meant it profoundly, and for the first time I was realizing
                        what had been going on in my family, all unsuspected by me.
                    "But first," proceeded Ednam, "she shall have the
                        highest social position in New York. And you must help if I am to
                        succeed." The fury burst into her face again. "Those
                        little wretches, snubbing her!dropping her! I'll make them pay for
                        it."
                    "Do you mean to tell me that Margot realizes all this?"
                        said I.
                    "Poor child, she's wretched about it. Only yesterday she
                        said to me: 'Mamma, is it true that you and papa are very common,
                        and that we haven't anything but a lot of stolen money? One of the
                        girls got mad at me because I was so good-looking and so proud, and taunted
                        me with it.'"
                    "Incredible!" said I, dazed.
                    "She's horribly unhappy," Edna went on.
                        "And it cuts her to the heart to be losing all her dearest friends.
                        I did my duty and taught her which girls to cultivate, and she was intimate
                        only with the right sort of New York girls."
                    "I expect she has been indiscreet," said I.
                        "They've found out why she made friends with them and
                        "
                    
                    "You will drive me crazy!" cried Edna. "Can't you understand? All the mothers and the
                        governesses all the grown people in respectable families teach the children.
                        Those mothers who don't teach it directly see that it's
                        taught by the governesses, or else select the proper friends for their
                        little girls and see that they drop any who aren't
                        proper."
                    I dropped back in my chair. I was stunned. It seemed to me I had never heard
                        anything quite so infamous in my life. And as I reflected on what she had
                        said I wondered that I had not realized it before. I recalled a hundred
                        significant facts that had come out in talks I had had with men, women, and
                        children in this fashionable world from which we were excluded, yet with
                        which we were in constant and close communication.
                    "The question is, what are you going to
                        do," proceeded Edna.
                    I shook my head, probably looking as dazed as I felt.
                    "What does that headshake mean?" demanded she.
                    "Youtaught Margot to be aalike
                        those other girls?" said I.
                    "Oh, you fool!" cried Edna. And in excuse for her, please
                        remember I had ever been a dotingly bored slave of hersas uxorious a husband
                        as you ever sawand therefore inevitably despised, for women have so little
                        intelligence that they despise a man who loves them and lets them rule.
                        "You fool!" she repeated. "Yes, I brought her up
                        like a ladytaught her to cultivate nice things and nice people. What should
                        I  teach her? To associate with common people?
                        To drop back toward where we came fromwhere you
                        belong?"
                    "Yes, I guess I do," said I.
                    Up to that time I had interested myself in only one aspect of human naturethe
                        aspect that concerned me as a business man. But from that time I began to
                        study the human animal in all hisand heraspects. And it was not long before
                        I learned what that animal is forced to become when exposed to the powerful
                        thrusts and temptings of wealth and social position. In our alternations of
                        pride and humility we habitually take undue credit or give undue blame to
                        ourselves for what is wholly the result of circumstance. The truth is, we
                        are like flocks of birds in a high wind. Some of us fly more steadily than
                        others, some are quite beaten down, others seem almost self-directing; but
                        all, great and small, weak and strong, are controlled by the wind, and those
                        who make the best showing are those who adapt themselves most skillfully to
                        the will of the wind.
                    At the time when Edna and I were talking I had not become a philosopher. I
                        was in the primitive stages of development in which most men and nearly all
                        women remain their whole lives throughthe stage in which you live, gentle
                        reader, with your shallow mistaken notions of what is and your shallower
                        mistaken notions of what ought to be. So, as Edna uncovered herself to me, I
                        shrank in horror. It was fortunatefor her, at leastthat I had always trained
                        myself never to make hasty speeches. My expertness in that habit has
                        probably been the principal cause of my business success, of my ability to
                        outwit even abler men than myself.  I did not
                        yield to the impulse to burst out against her. I compressed my lips and
                        silently watched as she lifted the veil over our family life and revealed to
                        me the truth about it.
                    "What are you going to do?" she asked impatiently, yet with
                        a certain uneasiness born no doubt of a something in my manner that made her
                        vaguely afraid, for while she knew I was her slave and despised me, as I was
                        to learn, for being so weak before a mere woman, she also knew that, outside
                        of her domain, I was not her slave nor anybody's, but planned and
                        executed at the pleasure of my own will.
                    "I don't know what I'm going to do," said
                        I slowly. "I must think. All this is new to me."
                    "If you haven't any pride in yourself, or in me,"
                        said she, "still you surely must have pride for Margot."
                    "I think so," said I.
                    "If you could know how they have made the poor child
                        suffer!"
                    I made no reply, nor did I encourage her to talk further. In fact, when she
                        began again I stopped her with: "I've heard enough, my
                        dear. And I've some important business to attend to."
                    She, preparing to leave me alone with my papers, came and put her arms round
                        my neck and pressed her cheek against mine. I think she was uneasy about the
                        posture of the affair in my mindfeared stupid commercial I could not
                        appreciate these vital things of life. I suspect my tranquil reception of
                        her caresses did not tend to allay her uneasiness. Never before had she
                        failed to interest me in her physical self; and the only  reason she then failed was that in the
                        general upsetting of all my ideas of what my family life was there had been
                        tossed up to the surface an undefined suspicion of her sincerity as a wife.
                        I was not altogether blind as to the relations of men and women, as to the
                        fact that women often coolly played upon the passions of men for their own
                        purposes of money getting in its various forms. My wife was right in her
                        sneer at the innocence of married men. But there are exceptions, and a woman
                        with a husband intelligent in every way except in seeing through women would
                        do well to take care how she tempts his intelligence to shake off its
                        indifference in that respect.
                    The next morning I was breakfasting alone as usual. No, gentle reader, I am
                        not girding at my poor wife as you hastily accuse. I am sure I do not
                        deceive myself when I say I never was of those men who fuss about trifles.
                        Thank heaven, as soon as we had a servant my wife kept away from breakfast.
                        It was one of the things I loved her for. If I had been married to a woman
                        who appeared at breakfast looking lovely and smiling sweetly, I should have
                        become a bad-tempered tyrant. I want no sentimentalities in the early
                        morning hours. I wake up uncomfortable and sour, and I quarrel with myself
                        and look about for trouble until I have had something to eat and coffee.
                        Further in the same direction, I took particular pleasure in my
                        wife's small personal slovenlinesses, in her curl papers, in her
                        occasional overlaying of her face with cold cream and the like, in her
                        careless negligee worn in her own rooms. There is, I guess, no nature so
                        prodigal that it has not some small 
                        economies. Edna had, probably still has, a fondness for wearing out
                        thoroughly, in secluded privacy, house dresses, underclothes, and night
                        gowns.
                    It took nothing from my delight in her beauty that she was not invariably
                        beautiful. I've rarely seen her lovely early in the morning. Who
                        is? I should have taken habitual early-morning loveliness as a personal
                        insult. I've seen her homely all day long, and for several days at
                        a time. She was as attractive to me than as at her most beautiful. I detest
                        monotony. Thank heaven, she was never monotonous to look at; one rather
                        expects mental monotony in women unless one is a fool. I
                        didn't mind her times of homeliness, because she could be so far,
                        far the opposite of homely. I did not mind her way of getting herself up in
                        odds and ends, mussily, but, mind you, never after the Passaic days
                        uncleannever! I did not mind her dishevelments because, when she set out to
                        dress, she did it so bang up well. She was born with a talent for dress; she
                        rapidly developed it into an art. You know what I mean. You've seen
                        the girl with hardly five dollars' worth of clothing on her,
                        including the hat, yet making the woman from the best dressmaker in Paris
                        look a frump.
                    I never had to join the innumerable and pitiful army of men who give the
                        woman their money to squander upon bad fits and bad taste, and are bowed
                        down with shame when they have to issue forth with her. I can honestly say,
                        and Edna will bear me out, that I gave her money freely. No doubt the reason
                        in part was I found it so easy to make money that I was indifferent to
                        extravagance. But the chief reason, I believe, was  Edna's skill at dress. The woman who is physically
                        alluring to her husband, and who knows how to dress, rarely has difficulty
                        in getting money from him, though he be a miser. But, gentle lady reader,
                        can you in your heart blame a man for grudging his earnings to a woman who
                        isn't fit to dress and who doesn't know how, either?
                    As I had begun to tell when I interrupted myself, I was breakfasting alone
                        the morning after that memorable talk with Edna, and Margot came down to
                        glance in for a smile at me on her way to school.
                    In theory Margot was still classed as a child, and would be so classed for
                        two years longer. In fact she was, and had been for two years and more, a
                        full-fledged young lady. That is the way American children of the rank for
                        which my wife was training Margot are being brought up nowadays. She had her
                        own apartment, dressing room and bath, sitting room, reception roomas many
                        rooms as my wife and I had altogether when we began married life, and about
                        four times the room. As for luxury, a comparison would be ridiculous. Also
                        Margot had her own staff of servantscompanion, maid, maid's
                        assistantand her own automobile with chauffeur, used by no one else. It
                        would be hard to find more helpless creatures than these young aspirants to
                        aristocracy. And they prided themselves upon their ignorance of the
                        realities, and their mothers, often with hypocritical pretense of distress,
                        boasted it. At that time I thought it amusing. The serious side of it was
                        entirely out of my range. We American men of the comfortable and luxurious
                        classes are addicted to the habit of regarding  our wives and children as toys, as mere sources of amusement not to be
                        taken seriously. It isn't strange that the children should not mind
                        this, but what a commentary upon the real mentality of the women that they
                        tolerate and encourage it! Our women are always, with a fine show of
                        earnestness, demanding that they be taken seriously. But woe unto the man
                        who believes them in earnest and tries to treat them as his equals instead
                        of as dainty toys, odalisques. How he will be denounced, hated, and, if
                        proper alimony can be got, divorced!
                    Margot's parties differed in no respect from grownup parties, except
                        that there were restrictions in the matter of hours and also as to the
                        serving of drinks. For, I believe my wife did not follow the extreme of
                        fashionable custom, but forbade wines and punch at these parties. In this
                        matter, as in the matter of using slang and in many others, she held that
                        only people of long-established social position, people with what is called
                        tradition, could safely make excursions beyond the bounds of
                        conventionality; that it was safest, wisest for people like herself to stay
                        well within the bounds, to be prim even, and so to avoid any possible
                        criticism as vulgar. A very shrewd woman was Edna. If her intelligence had
                        been equal to her shrewdness and energy, and if she had possessed a gleam of
                        the sense of humor! However
                    In no essential respect did Margot's routine of life differ from
                        that of her motherand her mother's routine of inane and worthless
                        time-killing was modeled exactly upon that of all the fashionable women and
                        apers  of fashionable women. Edna did a vast
                        amount of studying, with and without teachers. It was all shallow and showy.
                        Margot's studies were also beneath contempt. I amused myself from
                        time to time by inquiringwith pretense of gravityinto what they were
                        teaching her at the Ryper school for the turning out of fashionable
                        womanhood. Such a mess of trash! She was learning much about social usages,
                        from how to sit in a carriagea rare art that, I assure you, gentle readerto
                        how to receive guests at a large dinner. She was studying some of the
                        vulgaritiesscience, history, literature, and the likebut in no vulgar way.
                        She would get only the thinnest smatter of talkable stuff about themnothing
                        "unsettling," nothing that might possibly rouse the mind
                        to think or distract the attention from the "high" things
                        of life. She was dabbling in music, in drawing, in several similar costly
                        fripperies. And the sum total of expense!well, no wonder Miss Ryper was fast
                        becoming as rich as some of the asteroids in the plutocracy she adored.
                    I regarded Margot's education as a species of joke. It never
                        occurred to me that our pretty baby had the right to be educated to become a
                        wife and a mother. And why should it have occurred to me? Where is that
                        being done? Who is thinking of it? In all the oceans of twaddle about the
                        elevation of woman where is there a drop of good sense about real education? You say I was criminally negligent as to my
                        daughter's education. But how about your own? The truth is, we all
                        still look upon education as a frill, an ornament. We never think of it,
                        whether for our sons  or for our daughters, as
                        nothing more or less than teaching a human being how to live. It is high
                        time to end this idiotic ignorant exaltation of tomfoolery into culture!
                    Poor Margot! How the little girls in plain clothesand machine-made
                        underwearmust have envied her as she swept along in her limousine, dressed
                        with that enormously costly simplicity which only the rich can afford. No
                        wonder many of the other girls at the Ryper school hated her. For, her
                        mother was in one respect unlike most of the fashionable mothers who are too
                        busy doing things not worth doing to attend to their children. Her mother
                        gave her loving care, spent many hoursof anxious thought, no doubtin
                        planning to make her the most luxurious, the most helpless, the most envied
                        girl in the school. We hear unendingly about the good that love does in the
                        world. Not too muchno, indeed! But at the same time might it not be well if
                        we also heard about the harm love can doand does? How many sons and
                        daughters have been ruined by loving parents! How many husbands have been
                        wrecked by the flatteries and the assiduities of loving wives! How many
                        wives have been lured to decay and destruction by the over-indulgent love of
                        their husbands! What we need in this world is not more sentiment, but more
                        intelligence. Sentiment is a force, that rushes far and crazily in both directions, gentle reader, unless it has
                        well-balanced intelligence to guide it.
                    Margot, smiling in the doorway of the breakfast room, put me at once into a
                        less somber humor. She was tall and sliman inch taller than her mother and
                             with the same supple, well-proportioned
                        figure. She had her mother's small, tip-tilted face and luminous
                        eyes, but they were of an intense dark gray that gave her an expression of
                        poetic thoughtfulness and mystery. Whiter or more perfectly formed teeth I
                        have never seen. In former days children's teeth were neglected.
                        But my wife, with her peculiar reach for all matters having to do with
                        appearances, had learned the modern methods of caring for the body when
                        Margot was still in the period when the body is almost as formable as
                        sculptor's clay. Thus Margot's teeth had been looked after
                        and made perfect and kept so. Her hair hung loose upon her shoulders like a
                        wonderful changeable veil of golden brown. Often at first glance you are
                        dazzled by these carefully fed and carefully groomed children of the rich,
                        only to note at the second glance that the best showing has been made of
                        precious little in the way of natural charm. But this was not true of
                        Margot. The longer you looked, and the more attentively, the finer she
                        seemed to belike a rare perfect specimen from a connoisseur's
                        greenhouses. There's no doubt about it, Edna did know the physical
                        side of life. She would have got notable results even had we been poor. As
                        it was, with all the money she cared to spend, she performed what looked
                        like miracles.
                    "Come and kiss me, Margot," said I.
                    She obeyed, with a charming air of restrained eagerness that is regarded as
                        ladylike. "My car is waiting," said she.
                        "I'm late."
                    "Is that Therese"her maid"out in the hall waiting
                        to go with you?"
                    
                    "Yes. Miss Parnell"her companion"has a headache,
                        poor creature!"
                    Margot had caught to perfection the refined, elegant, fashionable tone of
                        speaking of the servile classes. Though I was in a critical mood that
                        morning, I was not critical of my beloved little Margot, and her airs
                        entertained me as much as ever. Said I:
                    "Sit down, little duchess"the familiar name slipped out
                        unconsciously"and talk to me a few minutes."
                    "But I'm shockingly late, papa," pleaded she.
                    "No matter. I'll telephone Miss Ryper, if you
                        wish." To the butler, who was serving me: "Sackville, go
                        tell Therese that I'm detaining Miss Margot. And close the door
                        behind you."
                    Sackville retired. Margot seated herself with alacrity. She did not like her
                        useless school any better than other children like more or less useful
                        schools. "Are you taking me to the theater Saturday afternoon, as
                        you promised?" said she. "And do get a box and let me ask
                        two of the girls."
                    "Certainly," said I. "If I can't go, Miss
                        Parnell will chaperon you."
                    "No, I want you, papa. It's so nice to have a
                        man."
                    "How are you getting on at school? Not with the studies"I
                        laughed at the absurdity of calling her fiddle-faddle studies"but
                        with the girls?"
                    Her face clouded. "Has mamma told you?"
                    "Told me what?"
                    She hesitated.
                    "Go on, dear," said I. "What's the
                        trouble?"
                    
                    "Oh, it's always the same thing," she sighed, with
                        a grown-up air that was both humorous and pathetic. "Some of the
                        girls are down on meaboutabout social position. You see, we don't
                        go socially with their families."
                    "Why should we?" said I. "We don't know
                        them, nor they us. Naturally, they don't care anything about us,
                        nor we about them."
                    She hung her head. "But I want to go with them," said she
                        doggedly.
                    "Why?" said I.
                    "Becausebecauseit's the proper thing to do. If you
                        don't go with them everybody looks down on you." She
                        lifted her head, and her flashing eyes reminded me of her mother.
                        "It makes me just wild to be looked down
                        on."
                    "I should say so," said I. "Those little girls at
                        Miss Ryper's must be an ill-bred lot. We must take you away from
                        there and put you in a school with nice girls."
                    "Oh, no, father!" she cried in a panic. "Those
                        girls are the nicestthe only nice girls in any school in
                        New York. All the other schools look up to ours. I'd cry my eyes
                        out in any other school."
                    "Why?" said I.
                    "I'd feellow." Her eyes had
                        filled and her cheeks were flushed. "I'd be out of place
                        except among the richest and most aristocratic girls."
                    "But you don't like them," said I gently. I began
                        to feel a sensation of sickness at the heart.
                    "I hate them!" cried she with passionate
                        energy.  "But I want to stay on there
                        and make them be friendly with me. I've got too
                        much pride, papa, to run away."
                    "Pride," said I, and my tone must have been sad.
                        "That isn't pride, dear. You ought to choose your friends
                        by liking. You ought to feel above girls with such cheap ideas."
                    "But I'm not above them," protested she.
                        "And I couldn't like any girl I'd be ashamed to
                        be seen with, unless she were a sort of servant. Oh, papa, you
                        don't appreciate how proud I am."
                    "Proud of what, dear? Of your parents? Of yourself?"
                    She hung her head.
                    "Of what, dear?" I urged.
                    "It hurts me not to be treated asas the inside clique of girls in
                        our secret society treat each other." She was almost crying.
                        "They don't even call me by my first name any more. They
                        speak to me as Miss Loringand so politelyexactly as I
                        speak to Miss Parnell or one of the teachers or a servant. Oh, I'm
                        so proud! I'd love to be like Gracie Fortescue. She speaks even to
                        Miss Ryper as I would to Miss Parnell."
                    My digestion wasn't any too good, even in those days. My whole
                        breakfast suddenly went wrongturned to poison inside me, I suppose. A hot
                        wave of rage against I knew not whom or what rolled up into my brain. I
                        pushed away my plate abruptly. "Run along, child," I said
                        in a hoarse voice I did not recognize as my own.
                    She threw her arms round my neck with a gesture and an expression that made
                        me realize how close a copy  of her mother
                        she was. "You wouldn't take me away from my school, would
                        you, papa dear?" she pleaded.
                    "All I want is to make you happy," said I, patting and
                        stroking that thick and lovely veil of flowing hair.
                    She assumed that I meant she was to stay on with the viperous Ryper brood,
                        and went away almost happy. She had awakened to the fact that there were
                        fates even worse than being snubbed and addressed like a teacher or a
                        companion or a servant or some other lower animalyes, far worse fates. For
                        instance, not being able to feel that she was, on whatever degrading terms,
                        at least associated with the adored fashionables.
                    That evening when my wife again accompanied me to my study, after dinner, I
                        said to her:
                    "I've been turning over our talk last night. I
                        haven't been able to reach a conclusion as yet, except on one
                        point. I can't help you socially in the way you
                        suggested."
                    I glanced at her as I said this. She was looking at me. Her pale, intense
                        expression fascinated me.
                    "I don't think you have thought about it fully,"
                        said she slowly.
                    "Yes," said I, with my utmost deliberateness; "and
                        my decision is final."
                    She rose, stood beside her chair, rubbing her hand softly along the top of
                        the back. "Very well," said she quietly. And she left me
                        alone.
                
                
                
                    V
                    IN refusing Edna her heart's desire thus promptly
                        and tersely I had an object. I assumed she would protest and argue; in the
                        discussion that would follow some light might come to me, utterly befogged
                        as to what course to take about my family affairs. I knew something should
                        be donesomething quick and drastic. But what? It was no new experience to me
                        to be faced with complex and well-nigh impossible situations. My business
                        life had been a succession of such experiences. And while I had learned much
                        as to handling them, I had also learned how dangerous it is to rush in
                        recklessly and to begin action before one has discovered what to doand what
                            not to do. The world is full of Hasty Hals and Hatties
                        who pride themselves on their emergency minds, on knowing just what to do in
                        any situation the instant it arises; and fine spectacles they are, lying
                        buried and broken amid the ruins they have aggravated if not created.
                    How recover my wife? How rescue my daughter? I could think of no planof no
                        beginning toward a plan. And when Edna, by receiving my refusal in cold
                        silence, defeated my hope of a possibly illuminating discussion, I did not
                        know which way to turn.
                    Why had I refused to help her in the way she suggested?  Not on moral grounds, gentle reader. There I should have been
                        as free from scruple as you yourself would have been, as you perhaps have
                        been in your social climbing or maneuvering in your native town, whereever
                        it is. Nor yet through fear of failure. I did not know the social game, but
                        I did know something of human nature. And I had found out that the
                        triumphant class, far from being the gentlest and most civilized, as its
                        dominant position in civilization would indicate, was in fact the most
                        barbarous, was saturated with the raw savage spirit of the right of might. I
                        am speaking of actualities, not of pretensesof deeds, not of words. To find
                        a class approaching it in frank savagery of will and action you would have
                        to descend through the social strata until you came to the class that wields
                        the blackjack and picks pockets and dynamites safes. The triumphant class
                        became triumphant not by refinement and courtesy and consideration, but by
                        defiance of those fundamentals of civilizationby successful defiance of
                        them. It remained the triumphant class by keeping that primal savagery of
                        nature. As soon as any member of it began to grow tamegentle, considerate,
                        except where consideration for others would increase his own wealth and
                        power, became really a disciple of the sweet gospel he professed and urged
                        upon othersjust so soon did he begin to lose his wealth into the strong
                        unscrupulous hands ever reaching for itand with waning wealth naturally
                        power and prestige waned.
                    No, I did not refuse because I thought the triumphant class would
                        contemptuously repel any attempt to  carry its
                        social doors by assault. I saw plainly enough that I could compel enough of
                        these society leaders to receive my wife and daughters to insure their
                        position. You have seen swine gathered about a trough, comfortably swilling;
                        you have seen a huge porker come running with angry squeal to join the
                        banquet. You have observed how rudely, how fiercely he is resented and
                        fought off by the others. This, until he by biting and thrusting has made a
                        place for himself; then the fact that he is an intruder and the method of
                        his getting a place are forgotten, and the swilling goes peacefully forward.
                        So it is, gentle reader, though it horrifies your hypocrisy to be told it,
                        so do human beings conduct themselves round a financial or political or
                        social swill trough. I should have had small difficulty in biting and
                        kicking a satisfactory place for Edna and Margot at the social swill trough;
                        I should have had no difficulty at all in keeping it for them. But
                    You will be incredulous, gentle reader, devoured of snobbishness and dazzled
                        by what you have heard and read of the glories of fashionable society in the
                        metropolis. You will be incredulous, because you, too, like the overwhelming
                        majority of the comfortable classes in this great democracyand many of the
                        not so comfortable classes as wellbecause you, too, are infected of the
                        mania for looking about for some one who refuses to associate with you on
                        the ground that you are "common," and for straightway
                        making it your heart's dearest desire to compel that person to
                        associate with you. You will be incredulous when I tell you my sole reason
                        was my hatred and horror of  what seemed to me
                        the degrading, vulgar, and rotten longings that filled my wife and that had
                        infected my daughter. That hatred and horror had thrown me into a state of
                        mind I did not dare confess to myself. You are incredulous; but perhaps you
                        will admit I may be truthful when I explain that the reason for my moral and
                        sentimental revolt was perhaps in large part my dense ignorance of the whole
                        society side of life.
                    No doubt in the Passaic public school of my boyhood there had been as much
                        snobbishness as there is in Fifth Avenue. But I had somehow never happened
                        to notice it. It must have been there; it must be elemental in human nature;
                        how else account for my wife? We hear more about the snobbishness of Fifth
                        Avenue than we do about the snobbishness of the tenements. But that is
                        solely because Fifth Avenue is more conspicuous. Also, Fifth Avenue,
                        supposedly educated, supposedly broadened by knowledge and taste, has no
                        excuse for petty vanities that belong only to the ignorant. And if Fifth
                        Avenue were really educated, really had knowledge and taste, it could not be
                        snobbish. However, my busy life had never been touched by social
                        snobbishness. I preferred to know and to associate with men better educated
                        and richer than I, but for excellent practical reasonsbecause from such men
                        I could get the knowledge and the wealth I needed. But I would not have
                        wasted a moment of my precious time upon the men most exalted in fashionable
                        lifethe ignorant incompetents who had inherited their wealth. They seemed
                        ridiculous and worthless to me, a man of thought and action.
                    
                    So, the sudden exposure of my wife's and my little girl's
                        disease gave me a shock hardly to be measured by the man or woman used all
                        his life to the social craze. It was much as if I had suddenly seen upon
                        their bared bosoms the disgusting ravages of cancer.
                    As I could not devise any line of action that, however faintly, promised
                        results, I kept away from home. I absorbed myself in some new enterprises
                        that filled my evenings, which I spent at my club with the men I drew into
                        them. At the mention of club, gentle reader, I see your ears pricking. You
                        are wondering what sort of club I belonged to. I shall
                        explain.
                    It was the Amsterdam Club. You may have seen and gawked at its vast and
                        imposing red sandstone front in middle Fifth Avenue. As you drove by in the
                        "rubber-neck" wagon, the man with the megaphone may have
                        shouted: "The Amsterdam Club, otherwise known as the Palace of
                        Plutocracy. The total wealth of its members is one tenth of the total wealth
                        of the United States. Every great millionaire in New York City belongs to
                        it. The reason you see no one in the magnificent windows is because the
                        plutocrats are afraid of cranks with pistol or bomb." And you
                        stared and envied and craned your neck backward as the sightseeing car
                        rolled on. A fairly accurate description of my club. But you will calm as I
                        go on to tell you the inside truth about it. It was built to provide a club
                        for those rich men of New York who had no social position, and so could not
                        be admitted to the fashionable clubs. It was not built by those outcasts  for whom it was intended, but by the rich men
                        of the fashionable world. They did not build it out of pity nor yet out of
                        generosity, but for freedom and convenience.
                    You must know that the rich, both the fashionables and the excludeds, are
                        intimately associated in business. Now, in the days before the Amsterdam
                        Club, if a rich fashionable wished to talk business out of office hours with
                        a rich unfashionable, he had to take him to his home or to his club, one or
                        the other. You will readily appreciate that either course involved
                        disagreeable complications. The rich unfashionable would say: "Why
                        am I not invited to this snob's house socially?
                        Why does not this hound see that I am elected to his elegant club?
                        I'll teach this wrinkle-snout how to spit at me. I'll slip
                        a stiletto into his back, damn him." As the number of rich
                        unfashionables increased, as the number of stealthy financial stilettoings
                        for social insult grew and swelled, the demand for a "way
                        out" became more clamorous and panicky. The final result was the
                        Amsterdam Clubperhaps by inspiration, perhaps by accident. And so it has
                        come to pass that now, when a rich fashionable wishes to talk finance with a
                        rich pariah, he does not have to run the risk of defiling his home or his
                        exclusive club. With the gracious cordiality where-for aristocracy is famed
                        in song and story, he says: "Let us go to our
                        club"for, the rich fashionables see to it that every rich pariah is
                        elected to the Amsterdam immediately he becomes a person of financial
                        consequence. And I fancy that not one in ten of the rich pariah members
                        dreams how he is being insulted and  tricked.
                        All, or nearly all, imagine they are elected by favor of the great
                        fashionable plutocrats to about the most exclusive club in New York. Also,
                        not one in a dozen of the fashionable members appreciates how he is
                        degrading himselffor, to my quaint mind, the snob degrades only himself.
                    Well! Not many months after we moved from Brooklyn to Manhattan I was elected
                        to the AmsterdamI, in serene ignorance of the trick that was being played
                        upon me by my sponsors, associates in large financial deals and members of
                        several exclusive really fashionable clubs. They pulled regretful faces as
                        they talked of the "long waiting lists at most of the
                        clubs." They brightened as they spoke of the Amsterdam
                        "the finest and, take it all round, the most satisfactory of the
                        whole bunch, old man. And we believe we've got pull enough to put
                        you in there pretty soon. We'll work it, somehow." If I
                        had known the shrivel-hearted trick behind their genial friendliness, I
                        should not have minded, should probably have laughed. For, human
                        littlenesses do not irritate me; and I have a vanityI prefer to call it a
                        pridethat lifts me out of their reach. I am of the one aristocracy that is
                        truly exclusive, the only one that needs no artificial barriers to keep it
                        so. But I shall not bore you, gentle reader, by explaining about it. You are
                        interested only in the aristocracies of rank and title and wealth that are
                        nothing but the tawdry realization of the tawdry fancies of the yokel among
                        his kine and the scullery maid among her pots. For, who but a tossed-up
                        yokel or scullery maid would indulge in such vulgarities as sitting upon  a gold throne or living in a draughty,
                        cheerless palace or seeking to make himself more ridiculous by aggravating
                        his littleness with a title, like the ass in the lion's skin? Did
                        it ever occur to you, gentle reader, that aristocracy is essentially common,
                        essentially vulgar? To a large vision the distinction between king and
                        carpenter, between the man with a million dollars and the million men with
                        one dollar looks trivial and unimportant. Only a squat and squinting soul in
                        a cellar and blinking through the twilight could discover agitating
                        differences of rank between Fifth Avenue and Grand Street, between first
                        floor front and attic rear, between flesh ripening to rot in silk and flesh
                        ripening to rot in cotton. To an infinitesimal insect an infinite gulf yawns
                        between the molecules of a razor's edge.
                    I often found my club a convenience, for in those busiest days of my
                        financial career I had much private conferringor conspiring, if you choose.
                        Never had I found it so convenient as when for the first time there was pain
                        and shrinking at the thought of going home, of seeing my wife and Margot. My
                        Margot! When she was a baby how proudly I had wheeled her along the
                        sidewalks of Passaic in the showy perambulator we bought for herand the
                        twenty-five dollars it cost loomed mighty big even to Edna. And in Brooklyn,
                        what happy Sundays Edna and I had had with her, when I would hire a buggy at
                        the livery stable round the corner and we would go out for the day to some
                        Long Island woods; or when we would take her down to the respectable end of
                        Coney Island to dig in the  sand and to wade
                        after the receding tide. My Margot! No longer mine; never again to be mine.
                    One evening I had an appointment at the Amsterdam with a Western millionaire,
                        Charles Murdock, whom I had interested in a Canada railway to tap a Hudson
                        Bay spruce forest. He was having trouble with his wife and something of it
                        had come out in the afternoon newspapers. At the last moment his
                        secretarywho, by the way, afterwards married the divorced Mrs.
                        Murdocktelephoned that Murdock could not keep his engagement to dine. I
                        looked about for some one to help me eat the dinner I had ordered. There are
                        never many disengaged men in the Amsterdam. The fashionable rich come only
                        when they have business with the pariahs. The pariahs prefer their own
                        houses or the barrooms and cafs of the big hotels. I therefore thought
                        myself lucky when I found Bob Armitage sulking in a huge leather chair and
                        got him to share my dinner. Armitage was one of my railway directors. He had
                        helped me carry through the big stroke that made me, had joined in half a
                        dozen of my enterprises in all of which I had been successful. There was no
                        man of my acquaintance I knew and liked so well as Armitage. Yet it had so
                        happened that we had never talked much with each other, except about
                        business.
                    It promised to be a silent dinner. He was as deep in his thoughts as I was in
                        mineand our faces showed that neither of us was cogitating anything
                        cheerful. On impulse I suddenly said:
                    "Bob, do you know about fashionable New York society?"
                    
                    I knew that he did; that is to say, I had often heard he was one of the heavy
                        swells, having all three titles to fashionwealth, birth, and marriage. But I
                        now pretended ignorance of the fact; when you wish to inform yourself
                        thoroughly on a subject you should always select an expert, tell him you
                        know nothing and bid him enlighten you from the alphabet up.
                    "Why do you ask?" said Armitage. "Do you want to
                        get in? I had a notion you didn't care for societyyou and your
                        wife."
                    Armitage didn't go to Holy Cross, but to St. Bartholomew's.
                        So he had never known of my wife's activities, knew only the sort
                        of man I was.
                    "Oh, I forgot," he went on. "You've a
                        daughter almost grown. I suppose you want her looked after. All right.
                        I'll attend to it for you. Your wife won't mind my
                        wife's calling? I'd have sent her long ago in fact, I
                        apologize for not having done it. But I hate the fashionable crowd. They
                        bore me. However, your wife may like them. Women usually do."
                    It was at my lips to thank him and decline his offer. Then it flashed into my
                        mind that perhaps my one hope of getting back my wife and daughter, of
                        restoring them to sanity, lay in letting them have what they wanted. Another
                        sort of man might have deluded himself with the notion that he could set his
                        foot down, stamp out revolt, compel his family to do as he willed. But I
                        happen not to be of that instinctively tyrannical and therefore inherently
                        stupid temperament.
                    Armitage ate in silence for a few moments, then said:
                    
                    "I'll have you elected to the Federal Club."
                    "This club is all I need," said I.
                    He smiled sardonically. I didn't understand that smile then, because
                        I didn't know anything about caste in New York. "You let
                        me look after you," said he. "You're a child in
                        the social game."
                    "I've no objection to remaining so," said I.
                    "Quite right. There's nothing in it," said he.
                        "But you must remember you're living in a world of rather
                        cheap fools, and they are impressed by that nothing. On the other side of
                        the Atlantic the social prizes have a large substantial value. Over here the
                        value's small. Still it's something. You wouldn't
                        refuse even a trading stamp, would you?"
                    I laughed. "I refuse nothing," said I. "I take
                        whatever's offered me. If I find I don't want it, why,
                        what's easier than to throw it away?"
                    "Then I'll put you in the Federal Club. You could have made
                        me do it, if you had happened to want it. So, why shouldn't I do it
                        anyhow, in appreciation of your forbearance? You don't realize, but
                        I'm doing for you what about two thirds of the members of this club
                        would lick my boots to get me to do for them."
                    "I had no idea the taste for shoe polish was so general
                        here," said I.
                    "It's a human taste, my dear Loring," replied he.
                        "It's as common as the taste for bread. All the men have
                        it. As for the women they like nothing so well. Having one's boots
                        licked is the highest human joy. Next comes licking boots."
                    
                    "You don't believe that?" said I, for his tone was
                        almost too bitter for jest.
                    "You aren't acquainted with your kind, old man,"
                        retorted he.
                    "I don't know the kind you know," said I. And then
                        I remembered my wife and my daughter. There must be truth in what Armitage
                        had said; for, my beautiful wife and my sweet daughter, both looking so
                        proudsurely they could not be rare exceptions in their insensibility to what
                        seemed to me elemental self-respect.
                    "You don't know your kind," he went on,
                        "because you don't indulge in cringing and don't
                        encourage it. You're like the cold, pure-minded woman who goes
                        through the world imagining it a chaste and austere place because her very
                        face silences and awes sensuality. You are part of the small advance guard
                        of a race that is to come." He grined satirically.
                        "Perhaps you'll drop out in the next few months.
                        We'll see."
                    When the silence was again broken, it was broken by me. "Do you know
                        a school kept by a woman named Ryper?" I inquired.
                    "Sure I do," replied he. He gave me a shrewd laughing
                        glance. "The daughter isn't learning anything?"
                    "Nothing but mischief," said I.
                    "That's what Ryper's for. But what does it matter?
                        Why should a woman learn anything? They're of no consequence. The
                        less a man has to do with them the better off he will be."
                    "They're of the highest consequence," said I
                        bitterly.  "They have the control of
                        the coming generation."
                    "And a hell of a generation it's to be," cried he,
                        suddenly rousing from the state of bored apathy in which he seemed to pass
                        most of his time. "You've got me started on the subject
                        that's a craze with me. I have only one strong feelingand that is
                        my contempt for womanthe American woman. I'm not speaking about the
                        masses. They don't count. They never did. They never will. No one
                        counts until he gets some education and some property. I suppose the women
                        of the masses do as well as could be expected. But how about the women of
                        the classes with education and property? Do you know why the world advances
                        so slowly? why the upper classes are always tumbling back and everything has
                        to be begun all over again?"
                    "I've a suspicion," said I. "Because the
                        men are fools about the women."
                    "The sex question!" cried Armitage.
                        "That's the only question worth agitating about. Until
                        it's settledor begins to be settledand settled right, it's
                        useless to attempt anything else. The men climb up. The women they take on
                        their backs become a heavier and heavier burdenand down they both dropand
                        the children with them. Selfish, vain, extravagant mothers, crazy about
                        snobbishness, bringing up their children in extravagance, ignorance and
                        snobbishness that's America to-day!"
                    "The men are fools about the women, and they let the women make
                        fools of themselves."
                    "The men are foolsbut not about the women,"  said Armitage. "How much time and
                        thought for your family have you averaged daily in the last ten
                        years?"
                    "I've been busy," said I. "I've
                        had to look out for the bread and butter, you know."
                    "Exactly!" exclaimed he, in triumph. "You think
                        you're fond of your family. No doubt you are. But the bottom truth
                        is you're indifferent to your family. I can prove it in a sentence:
                        You attend to anything you care about; and you haven't attended to
                        them."
                    I stared at him like a man dazzled by a sudden lightwhich, in fact, I was.
                    "Guilty or not guilty?" said he, laughing.
                    "Guilty," said I.
                    "The American man, too busy to be bothered, turns the American woman
                        loosegives her absolute freedom. And what is she? A child in education, a
                        child in experience, a child in taste. He turns her loose, bids her do as
                        she likesand, up to the limit of his ability gives her all the money she
                        wants. He prefers her a child. Her childishness rests his tired brain. And
                        he doesn't mind if she's a little mischievousthat makes
                        her more amusing."
                    "You are marriedhave children," said I, too serious to
                        bother about tact. "How is it with you?"
                    He laughed cynically. "Don't speak of my family,"
                        said he. "I tried the other way. But I've given upseveral
                        years ago. What can one do in a crazy crowd?"
                    "Not much," confessed I, deeply depressed.
                    
                    "The women stampede each other," he went on.
                        "Besides, no American womannone that I know has been brought up
                        with education enough to enable her to make a life for herself, even when
                        the man tries to help her. To like an occupation, to do anything at it,
                        you've got to understand it. Being a husband and father is an
                        occupation, the most important one in the world for a man. Being a wife and
                        mother is an occupationthe most important one in the world for a woman. Are
                        American men and women brought up to those occupationstrained in
                        themprepared for them? The most they know is a smatter at the pastime of
                        lover and mistressand they're none too adept at that."
                    "I believe," said I, "that in my whole life
                        I've never learned so much in so short a time."
                    "It'll do you no good to have learned," rejoined
                        Armitage. "It will only make you sad or bitter, according to your
                        mood. Or, perhaps some day you may reach my plane of indifferenceand be
                        amused."
                    "Nothing is hopeless," said I.
                    "The American woman is hopeless," said he. "Her
                        vanity is triple-plated, copper-riveted. She's hopeless so long as
                        the American man will give her the money to buy flattery at home and abroad;
                        for, so long as you can buy flattery, you never find out the truth about
                        yourself. And the American man will give her the money as long as he can,
                        because it buys him peace and freedom. He doesn't want to be
                        bothered with the American womanexcept when he's in a certain mood
                        that doesn't last long."
                    
                    "There are exceptions," said Inot clear as to what I meant.
                    "Yesthere are exceptions," said he. "There are
                        American men who spend time with the American woman. And what does she do to
                        them? Look at the poor asses!neglecting their business, letting their minds
                        go to seed. They don't make her wise. She makes them foolishas
                        foolish as herselfand her children."
                    You may perhaps imagine into what a state this talk of Armitage's
                        threw me. He was talking generalities. But every word he spoke went straight
                        home to me. He had torn the coverings from my inmost family life, had
                        exposed its soul, naked and ugly, to my fascinated gaze.
                    He finished dinner, lighted a cigarettesat back watching me with a mysterious
                        smile, half amused, wholly sympathetic, upon his handsome face, younger than
                        his forty-five yearsfor he was considerably older than I. I was hardly more
                        than barely conscious of that look of his, or of his presence. Suddenly I
                        struck my fist with violence upon the arm of my chair. And I said:
                    "I will do something! It is not
                        hopeless!"
                    He shook his head slowly, at the same time exhaling a cloud of smoke.
                        "I tried, Godfrey," said he, "and I had a better
                        chance of success than you could possibly have. For my wife had been brought
                        up by a sensible father and mother in a sensible way, and she had been used
                        to fashionable society all her life and, when I married her, seemed to have
                        proved herself immune.  A few years
                        and" His cynical smile may not have been genuine. "She
                        leads the simpletons. But you'll see for yourself."
                    "When you know what to do, and feel as you do," said I,
                        "why did you suggest our going into your society?"
                    "It isn't mine," laughed he.
                        "It's my wife's. It doesn't belong to
                        the men. It belongs to the women."
                    "Into your wife's society?" persisted I.
                    "Why did I suggest it? Because I wished to please you, and I know
                        you like to please your wife. And she's an American womantherefore,
                        society mad. She has her daughter at the Ryper joint, hasn't
                        she?"
                    I sat morosely silent.
                    "Oh, come now! Cheer up!" cried he, with laughing irony.
                        "After all, you can't blame the American woman. She has no
                        training for the career of woman. She has no training for any serious
                        career. She's got to do something, hasn't she? Well, what
                        is there open to her but the career of lady? That doesn't call for
                        brains or for education or for taste. The dressmaker and milliner supply the
                        toilet. The architect and decorator and housekeeper and staff supply the
                        grand background. Father or husband supplies the cash. A dip into a novel or
                        book of culture essays supplies the gibble-gabble. A nice easy profession,
                        is ladyand universally admired and envied. No, Loring, it isn't
                        fair to blame her."
                    We strolled down Fifth Avenue. After he had watched the stream of elegant
                        carriages and automobiles,  some of the too
                        elegant automobiles having their interiors brightly lighted that the
                        passersby might not fail to see the elaborate toilets of the occupantsafter
                        he had observed this procession of extravagance and vanity, with only an
                        occasional derisive laugh or "Look there! Don't miss that
                        lady!" he burst out again in his pleasantly ironical tone:
                    "How fat the women are getting!the automobile women! And how the
                        candy shops are multiplying. Candy and automobiles!and culture. Let us not
                        forget culture."
                    "No, indeed," said I grimly. "Let's not
                        forget the culture."
                    "I was telling my wife yesterday," said Armitage,
                        "what culture is. It is talking in language that means nothing
                        about things that mean less than nothing. But watch the ladies stream by,
                        all got up in their gorgeous raiment and jewels. What have they ever done,
                        what are they doing, that entitles them to so much more than their poor
                        sisters scuffling along on the sidewalk here?"
                    "They've talked and are talking about culture,"
                        said I. "And don't forget charity."
                    "Ahcharity!" cried he gayly. "Thank you. I see we
                        understand each ther." He linked his arm affectionately in mine.
                        "Charity! It's the other half of a lady's
                        occupation. Charity! Having no fancy for attending to her own business, she
                        meddles in the business of the poor, tempting them to become liars and
                        paupers. Your fine lady is a professional patronizer. She has no usefulness
                        to contribute to the world.  So, she
                        patronizesthe arts with her culturethe poor with her charity, and the human
                        race with her snobbishness."
                    He was so amused by his train of thought that he lapsed into silence the more
                        fully to enjoy it; for, every thought has its shadings that cannot be
                        expressed in words yet give the keenest enjoyment. When he spoke again, it
                        was to repeat:
                    "And what have these ladies done to entitle them to this luxury? Are
                        they, perchance, being paid for giving to the world, and for inspiring, the
                        noble sons and daughters who drive coaches and marry titles?"
                    "But what do we men do? What do I dothat entitles
                        me to so much more than that chap perched on the hansom? I often think of
                        it. Don't you?"
                    "Never," laughed Armitage. "I never claw my own
                        sore spots. There's no fun in that. Always claw the other
                        fellow's. There's a laugh and distraction for your own
                        troubles in seeing him wince."
                    "Is that why you've been clawing mine?" said I.
                    We were pausing before his big house, at the corner of the Avenue.
                        "If I have been I didn't know it," said he. He
                        glanced up at his windows with a satirical smile. "This evening
                        I've been breaking my rule and clawing at my own." He put
                        out his hand. "Let the social business take its course,"
                        advised he with impressive friendliness. "You and I can't
                        make the world over. To fight against the inevitable merely increases
                        everyone's discomfort."
                    "Perhaps you're right," said I.
                    I agreed with his conclusion that it was best to let  things alone, though I reached that conclusion by a different
                        route. I had in mind my forlorn hope of good results from a homeopathic
                        treatment. I saw how impossible it was to undo the practically completed
                        training of a grown girl. I appreciated the absurdity of an attempt
                        radically to change Edna's characteran absurdity as great as an
                        attempt to make her a foot taller or to alter the color of her eyes. The one
                        hope, it seemed to meand I still think I was rightwas that, when they had
                        social position, when there should no longer be excuse for fretting lest
                        some one were thinking them common, they might calm down toward some sort of
                        sanity.
                    Bear in mind, please, that at the time I did not have the situation, nor any
                        idea of it, and of how to deal with it, definitely and clearly in mind. I
                        was groping, was seeing dimly, was not even sure that I saw at all. I was
                        like a thousand other busy American men who, after years of absorption in
                        affairs, are abruptly and rudely awakened to the fact that there is
                        something wrong at home where they had been flattering themselves everything
                        was all right.
                    The things Armitage had said occupied my mind, almost to the exclusion of my
                        business. The longer I revolved them, the better I understood the situation
                        at home. I could not but wonder what wretched catastrophe in his domestic
                        life had made him so insultingly bitter against women. I felt that he was
                        unfair to them; any judgment that condemned a class for possessing universal
                        human weakness must be unfair. At the same time I believed he had excuse for
                        being unfair  the excuse of a man whose
                        domestic life is in ruins. I began to see toward the bottom of the woman
                        questionthe nature and the cause of the crisis through which women were
                        passing.
                    The modern world, as I had read history enough to know, had suddenly and
                        completely revolutionized the conditions of life. The male sex, though
                        poorly where at all equipped to meet the new conditions, still was compelled
                        to meet them after a fashion. A river that for ages has moved quietly along
                        in a deep bed, all in a night swells to many times its former size and plays
                        havoc with the surrounding country. That was a fairly good figure for the
                        new life science and machinery had suddenly forced upon the human race. The
                        men living in the inundated regionwhere floods were unknown, where
                        appliances, even ideas for combating them did not existthe men, hastily,
                        hysterically, incompetently, but with resolution and persistence, because
                        forced by dire necessity, would proceed to deal with that vast new river.
                        Just so were the men of our day dealing with the life of steam and
                        electricity, of ancient landmarks of religion and morality swept away or
                        shifted, of ancient industrial and social relations turned upside down and
                        inside out. The men were coping with the situation after a fashion. But the
                        women?
                    These unfortunate creatures, faced with the new conditions, were in their
                        greater ignorance and incapacity and helplessness, trying to live as if
                        nothing had occurred!as if the old order still existed. And the men, partly
                        through ignorance, partly through pre-occupation  with the new order, partly through indifference and contempt
                        veiled as consideration for the weaker sex, were encouraging them in their
                        fatal folly. Was it strange that the women were deceived, remained
                        unconscious of their peril? No, it was on the contrary inevitable. When men,
                        though working away under and at the new conditions, still talked as if the
                        old conditions prevailed, when preachers still preached that way, and
                        orators still eulogized the thing that was dead and buried as if it lived
                        and reigned, when in order to find out the change you had to disregard the
                        speech, the professions, the confident assertions of all mankind and observe
                        closely their actions onlywhen there was this universal unawareness and
                        unpreparedness, how could the poor women be condemned?
                    I could not but admit to myself that in his account of the doings of the
                        women Armitage was only slightly if at all exaggerating. But with my more
                        judicial temperament that had won me fortune and leadership while hardly
                        more than a youth, I could not join him in damning the women for their folly
                        and idleness and uselessness.
                    So, the immediate result of Armitage's talk was a gentler and
                        thoroughly tolerant frame of mind toward my wife, both as to herself and as
                        to what she had done to our daughter. After all, I had for wife only the
                        typical womanand a rarely sweet and Charming example of the type. And my
                        daughter was no worse, perhaps was better, than the average girl of her age
                        and position. What did I think I hador ought to havein the way of wife and
                        daughter, anyhow?  What was this vague,
                        sentimental dream of family life? If I were by some magic to find myself
                        possessed of the sort of family I thought I wanted, wouldn't I be
                        more dissatisfied than at present? When I had a wife and a daughter who looked so well and did nothing but what everyone around me
                        regarded as right and proper, was I not unjust in my discontent?
                    I had not seen Edna or Margot for several days before my talk with Bob
                        Armitage. I did not see Edna for several days afterwards, though I dined at
                        home every evening and did not go out after dinner. I was debating how to
                        make overtures toward a reconciliation when she came into my study. She had
                        an air of coldness and constraintthe air of the woman who is inflicting
                        severe punishment upon an offending husband by withholding herself from him.
                        She said:
                    "Mrs. Robert Armitage has asked me to dine on Thursday
                        evening."
                    I replied hesitatingly: "Thursday I've an engagement for
                        Thursdaya dinner."
                    In her agitation she did not note that I had not finished. Dropping her
                        coldness, she flashed out fiercely:
                    "We've simply got to accept!
                        It's our chance. We may not have it again. It's what
                        I've been waiting for ever since we moved to this house. And I
                        can't go alone. Oh, how selfish you are! You never think of
                        anything but your own comfort. And you can't or won't
                        realize any of the higher things of life for which I'm striving. It
                        is too horrible!"
                    If any male reader of this story has known a 
                        woman who was, up to a certain time, always able to rouse a strong emotion
                        in himof love or anger, of pleasure or paina woman toward whom he could not
                        be lukewarm, and if that reader can recall the day on which he faced that
                        woman in a situation of stress and found himself calm and patient and kind
                        toward her
                    I was surprised to find that Edna was not moving me. Her loveliness did not
                        stir a single tiny flame of passion. Her abuse did not excite resentment or
                        dread.
                    "Just a moment, my dear," said I with the tranquillity of a
                        judge. "I was trying to say that I would break my
                        engagement."
                    I saw that she did not believe me but imagined her outburst had terrified and
                        cowed me into submission. How dispassionately I observed and judged!
                    "Accept, if you wish," I went on. "I like
                        Armitage. We've been friends for years."
                    "Why didn't you tell me so?" demanded she.
                        "Why have you been plotting against me all this time?"
                    "You forbade me to speak of business," said I. "So
                        I have never spoken of my business friends."
                    Her anger against me was almost beyond control. If she had been a lady born,
                        if she had not had a past to live down, a childhood of vulgar surroundings
                        and actions, she would have given way and abused like a fish wife. A lady
                        born dares excesses of passion that a made lady, with her deep reverence for
                        the ladylike, would shrink from. She said through clinched teeth:
                    "I find out that Mrs. Armitage, the leader of the  younger set, the most fashionable woman in
                        New York, has been eager to know me for a long time. And you have been preventing it!"
                    "How?" said I, amused, but not showing it.
                    "She called here the other day. She was as friendly as could be. We
                        became friends at once. She said that for months she had been at her husband
                        to get her Ieave to call on me, but that he and you, between you, had
                        neglected to arrange it."
                    I saw how this notion of the matter delighted her, and that the truth would
                        enrage her, would make her dislike me more than ever. So, I held my peace
                        and thought, for the first time, I believe, how tiresome a woman without a
                        sense of humor could becomehow tryingly tiresome.
                    "She and I are going to do a lot of things together,"
                        continued Edna in the same intense humorless way. "I always knew
                        that if I got a chance to talk with one of those women who could appreciate
                        me, I'd have no further trouble. I knew I was wasting time on those
                        religious fakirs and frumps, but I was always hoping that through them
                        I'd somehow meet a woman of my own sort. Now I've met her,
                        and something tells me I'll have no further trouble."
                    "Probably you're right," said I.
                    "How it infuriates me," she went on, "to think
                        I'd have been spared all the humiliations and heart-aches
                        I've suffered, if you had used your influence with Robert Armitage
                        monthsyears ago. But noyou don't want me to get on. You wanted to
                        stick in the mud. So I had to sufferand Margot, too."
                    
                    "Well, it's all right now," said I, probably as
                        indifferently as I felt. Why had God seen fit to create women without the
                        sense of humor? Perhaps to save men from falling altogether under their
                        rule.
                    "The sufferings of that poor child!" cried Edna.
                        "And the very day after Mrs. Armitage came, Gracie Fortescue asked
                        her to a party, and all the girls have taken her up. Gracie Fortescue is a
                        niece of Hilda Armitage. Her brother married a Fortescue."
                    "Really?" said I. "And Margot is happy?"
                    "No thanks to you," retorted Edna sourly.
                    "Well, plunge in, my dear," said I, beginning to examine
                        the papers before me on the desk. "Onlyspare me as much as
                        possible. I need all my time and strength for my work."
                    "But you'll have to go with me to dinners, and to the opera
                        occasionally. I can't do this thing altogether alone."
                    "Say I'm an invalid. Say I'm away. They
                        don't want me, anyhow. Armitage doesn't go with his
                        wife."
                    "But that's different," cried she in a fever.
                            "She has always had social position. It
                        doesn't matter if people do talk scandal about her. I
                        can't afford to cause gossip."
                    "Why should they gossip? But no matter. I don't want to
                        worry with thatthat higher life, let us call it. Or to be worried with it.
                        Do the best you can for me. I'm a man's manalways have
                        beenalways shall be. If you've got to have a man to take you about,
                        dig up one somewhere. I'm willing to pay him well."
                    
                    "Always money!" exclaimed she in deep disgust. I laughed.
                        "Not a bad thing, money," said I.
                    "It would never have got me Mrs. Armitage's
                        friendship," said she loftily.
                    "You think so?" said I amiably. "All right, if it
                        pleases you. Buttake my advice, my dearenjoy yourself to the limit with
                        highfaluting talk about the worthlessness of money and
                        that sort of rot. But don't for a minute lose your point of view
                        and convince yourself."
                    "Thank God I've got a vein of refinement, of idealism in my
                        nature," said Edna. "I wouldn't have as sordid an
                        opinion of human nature as you have for anything in the world."
                    "You can afford not to have it, my dear," said I.
                        "So long as I know the truth, and so make the necessary money to
                        keep us going, you are free to indulge your lovely delusions. Have your
                        beautiful, unmercenary friendship with Mrs. Armitage and the other ladies.
                        I'll continue to make it financially worth their husbands'
                        while to encourage the friendships."
                    "I thought so!" cried she. "You believe Mrs.
                        Armitage has taken me up for business reasons."
                    "If you had been some poor woman" I began mildly.
                    "Don't be absurd!" cried my wife. "How
                        could there be an equal and true friendship between Mrs. Armitage and a
                        woman with none of the surroundings of a lady, and with no means of
                        gratifying the tastes of a lady? But that doesn't mean that Mrs.
                        Armitage is a low, sordid woman. She has a beautiful nature.  Money is merely the background of high
                        society. It simply gives ladies and gentlemen the opportunity to set the
                        standards of dress and manners and taste. And of course they're
                        careful whom they associate with. Who wants to be annoyed by adventurers and
                        climbers and all sorts of dreadful mercenary, self-seeking people?"
                    "Who, indeed?" said I.
                    It gently appealed to my sense of the ridiculous, to see my wife thus changed
                        in a twinkling into a defender and exponent of fashionable society. It was
                        so deliciously feminine, as fantastically humorless, her sincere belief in
                        the poppycock she was reeling offthe twaddle with which Mrs. Armitage had
                        doubtless stuffed her. The sordidness the vulgarity, the meanness, the petty
                        cruelty, the snobbishness of fashionable peopleall forgotten in a moment,
                        hastily covered deep with the gilt and the tinsel of hypocritical virtues.
                        What an amusing ass the human animal is! How stupidly unconscious of its own
                        motives! How eagerly it attributes to itself all kinds of high motives for
                        the ordinary, or scrubby, or downright mean actionsand attributes the same
                        motives to its fellow asses, to make its own pretenses the more plausible!
                        An amusing assbut it would be more amusing if it were not so monotonously
                        solemn, but laughed at itself occasionally.
                    However
                    The atmosphere of our home now steadily improved. The servants began to
                        respect us, where they had despised and had scarcely troubled themselves to
                        conceal their contempt. The cook sent up more attractive  though I fear even less digestibledishes. The
                        butler addressed me with a gratifying servility. The maids developed
                        unexpected talents, showing acquaintance with the needs and customs of a
                        fashionable household. The housekeeper's soul dropped from its
                        theretofore insolently erect posture to all fours, and she attended to her
                        duties. Edna became sweet and gracious. Margot grew merry and affectionate.
                        All the result of Mrs. Armitage. We had been pariahs; we were of the elect.
                    I saw and felt the change distinctly at the time. But it is only in
                        retrospect that I take the full measure get its full humorand pathos.
                    That Armitage dinner was the event of Edna's life.
                        She had been born; she had married; she had given birthall memorable and
                        important occurrences. But this formal dbut in fashionable society topped
                        them as the peak tops the foothills. Having seen her quivering and
                        hysterical excitement when we were leaving the house, I feared a breakdown.
                        I marveled at her apparent calmness and ease as we entered the dining room
                        of the Armitages. Never had she looked so well. If Mrs. Armitage had not
                        been a self-satisfied beauty of the dark type she might have demolished
                        Edna's dream in its very realizing. But no doubt Edna, the shrewd,
                        had duly measured Hilda Armitage and had discovered that it was safe to make
                        her proud of the woman she had taken under protection and patronage.
                    There were but a dozen people in all at the dinner. It did not seem to be
                        much of an affair. The drawing-room was plainnothing gaudy, nothing costly
                        looking  Our own dining room was much
                        granderto our then uneducated taste. The guests werejust people simple,
                        good-natured mortals, perfectly at their ease and putting us at our ease.
                        You would have wondered, after five minutes of that company, how anyone
                        could possibly find any difficulty in getting intimately acquainted with
                        them. But, as Edna knew at a glance, she and I were in the midst of the
                        innermost and smallest circle of the many circles one within another that
                        make up New York fashionable society. If on the recommendation of the
                        Armitages we should have the good fortune to be accepted by that circle of
                        circles, that circle within the circles, there would be nothing of a social
                        nature left for us to conquer in New York. I was ignorant of all this at the
                        time; had I known, I imagine I should have remained tranquil. But Edna knew
                        at a glance; she had been studying these matters for years. It shows what
                        force of character she had that she conducted herself as if it were the most
                        ordinary and familiar occasion of her life. She had always said, even away
                        back in the days of the grand fortydollars-a-month flat in Passaic, that she
                        belonged at the social top. She was undoubtedly right. The way she acted
                        when she arrived there proved it.
                    You do not often have the chance, gentle reader, to get so well acquainted
                        with any human being as I have enabled you to get with Edna. Probably you do
                        not even know yourself so well. Therefore I suspect that you have a wholly
                        false notion of herthink her in every way much worse relatively than she
                        was. Through your novels and through the reports your dim eyes  bring to your narrow and shallow mind, you
                        have acquired certain habits of judging your fellow beings.
                    You attach inflated importance to their unimportant surface qualitiesphysical
                        appearance, pleasant voice and mannerand to their amiable little hypocrisies
                        of apparent sweetness and generosity and friendliness. You do not see the
                        real personthe human being. You, being by training a hypocrite and a
                        believer in hypocrisies, scorn human beings. Now I prefer them to the sort
                        of people with whom you and your false literature populate the world. In
                        making you acquainted with Ednaand the others in my storyI have not
                        introduced you to bad people, monsters, but to real beings of usual types,
                        probably on the whole superior to your smug self in all the good qualities.
                        Had you seen Edna in the Armitage house that evening you would have thought
                        her as incapable of calculation and snobbishness aswell, as any of the
                        others in that company whose whole lives were made up of calculation and
                        snobbishness. Sheand theylooked so refined and elevated. Sheand theytalked
                        so high-mindedly. I, who knew almost nothing at that time except business,
                        was listener rather than talker; and you may be sure such a man as I, having
                        such ignorance as mine to cover up, had in years of practice become somewhat
                        adept in that saving art for the intelligent ignorant. But Edna
                    She, the most expert of smatterers, fairly shone. With her beauty and
                        vivacity, her eloquent eyes and dazzling smile, and exquisite bare
                        shoulders, to aid her, she created an impression of brilliancy.
                    
                    "You had a good time?" said I, when we were in the motor
                        for the home journey.
                    "I never had as good a time in my life," she exclaimed, her
                        voice tremulous with ecstasy. "Did I look well?"
                    "Never so well," said I. "And you made a
                        hit."
                    "I was careful to cultivate the women," said she.
                        "I've got to get the women."
                    "You've got them," I declared sincerely.
                    "You're sure I didn't make some of them jealous?
                        Did you see any signs?"
                    "They liked you," said I.
                    "I had to play my cards well," pursued she. "It
                        was a difficult position. I was far and away the best looking woman there,
                        with the possible exception of Mrs. Armitage. Did you hear her call me
                        Edna?"
                    "You and Mrs. Armitage look well together. You are of about the same
                        figure, and the contrast of coloring is very good."
                    "That's why we took to each other so quickly. Each of us
                        sets off the other."
                    "How did you like Armitage?" I asked.
                    "Oh, well enough," said she indifferently. "I
                        hardly noticed himor the other men. I had my game to play. The men
                        don't count in the social game. It's the women. I shall be
                        nervous until I find out whether I really got them. They are such cats!so
                        mean and sly and jealous. I detest women!"
                    "I prefer men, myself," said I.
                    "Men!" She laughed scornfully. "I think men are
                        intolerableAmerican men. They say foreigners 
                        are better. But American menthey know nothing but dull business or politics.
                        They have no breadthno idealism. The women are far superior to the
                        men."
                    I laughed. "No doubt you women are too good for us," said I
                        carelessly. "We're grateful that you don't scorn
                        us too much even to accept our money."
                    "How coarse that is! Don't spoil the happiest evening of my
                        life."
                    We were at home, so she could escape from me. And I, for my part, was as glad
                        to be quit of her society as she could possibly have been to get rid of me.
                        I was beginning to realize that her conversation bored me, that it had
                        always bored me, that it was her sex and only her sex that interested me.
                        And latterly even this had lost its charm. Why?
                    I have observedand perhaps you have observed it, toothat people of wealth and
                        position, unless they have very striking individuality indeed, are usually
                        utterly devoid of charm. It is difficult to become interested in them, to
                        establish any sort of sympathetic current. And you will notice that
                        fashionable functions are dull, essentially dull; that the animation is
                        artificial, is supplied from without by an, orchestra or entertainers, and
                        fails to infect the company. It was long before I discovered the explanation
                        for this. I at first thought it was the stupidity that comes from a surfeit
                        of the luxuries and pleasures. But I am now convinced that this familiar
                        explanation is not the true one; that the true one is the excessive, the
                        really preposterous self-centeredness of people of rank and wealth. From
                        waking until sleeping they are surrounded by hirelings and  sycophants who think and talk only of them.
                        Thus the rich man or woman gets into the habit of concentrating upon self.
                        Now the essence of charm is giving giving oneself out in sympathetic
                        interest in one's fellows. How can people, all whose faculties are
                        trained to work in upon themselveshow can they have charm? An egotist, one
                        who talks only of himself, may have charm because he gives
                        you the impression that he is trying to please you, that he thinks you so
                        important that he wishes you to be sensible of his importance. But the
                        egotist who, whatever he talks, thinks only of himselfhe
                        is not only dull and bored but also a diffuser of dullness and boredom. And
                        that is how their servants and their sycophants make the rich and the
                        fashionable so dreary.
                    I imagine some such effect as this was being produced upon my wife by her
                        surroundings of luxury. I think that may account for her long decreasing
                        charm for me. At any rate, soon after she was well launched on her Elysian
                        sea of fashionthat is to say, soon after she ceased to have any check of
                        social seeking to restrain her from centering all her thoughts and actions
                        upon herself, she lost the last bit of her charm for me. She became
                        radiantly beautiful. Her face took on a serene and refinedly assured
                        expression that made her extravagantly admired on every hand. She became
                        gracious to me and almost as sweet as she had been before we moved to New
                        York. She even let me see that, if I so desired, she would condescend to be
                        on terms of wifely affection with me again. But I did not so desire. I liked
                        her. I admired her energy, her  toilets, and,
                        quite impersonally, her aristocratic beauty. But I was content to be a
                        bachelor, and I was grateful when she began to relieve me of the tediousness
                        of going about in her train.
                    My substitute was an architect, Leon Macllvane by namea handsome young fellow
                        of about my wife's age, though he thought her much younger, despite
                        Margot's age and appearance. With his poetic dark eyes and classic
                        features, and rich, deep voice, Macllvane had long been a favorite with the
                        young married women of the Armitage set. He was indeed a valuable asset. The
                        rich unmarried men were not especially interesting; also, they were needed
                        by the marriageable girls. MacIlvane, not a marrying man and never making
                        any mother uneasy by so much as an interested glance at a daughter intended
                        for a rich husband, devoted himself to married women.
                    "I do not care for girls," he said to me. "They
                        are too colorless."
                    "Why bother with women at all?" said I.
                        "Aren't they all colorless? What do they know about life?
                        What experience have they had?"
                    "An intelligent woman's mind is the complement of an
                        intelligent man's mind," said he, as if this trite old
                        fallacy were a brilliant discovery of his own making. "Women
                        stimulate me, give me ideas."
                    "Oh, I see," said I practically. "Business. Yes,
                        an architect does deal chiefly with the women."
                    "I didn't mean that," said he, showing as much
                        anger as he dared show the husband of the woman to whom he had attached
                        himself.
                    
                    "Where's the harm in it?" said I encouragingly.
                        "You've got to make a livinghaven't you?
                        It's good sense for a business man to cultivate his
                        customers."
                    He, the poseur and the small man, hated this plain truthful way of dealing
                        with his profession. Like all chaps of that kidney he thought only of
                        himself and of appearances, and sought to degrade a noble profession to the
                        base uses of his vanity. In fact, he had begun with my wife because of the
                        orders he hoped to getfor, he suspected that once she looked about her in
                        the fashionable world from the new viewpoint of a fashionable person, she
                        would want changes in her house to make it less vividly grand. He believed
                        she would let Hilda Armitage educate her; and Hilda, unlike most of her
                        friends, liked the quiet kinds of ostentation and costliness. And he guessed
                        correctly. He was well paid for undertaking to replace me as escortso far as
                        I could be replaced without causing scandaland, thank heaven, that was very
                        far in the New York of busy and bored husbands, detesting the gaudy gaddings
                        their wives loved.
                    Soon he was serving my wife for other reasons than pay. I saw something of
                        him from time to time, and I presently began to note a change in his manner
                        toward mea formal politeness, an exaggeration of courtesy. I spoke to
                        Armitage about it. Armitage and I had become the most intimate of
                        friendsknocked about together in the evenings, were more closely associated
                        than ever in business.
                    "Bob," said I to Armitage, "what ails that ass,
                             MacIlvane? He treats me as if he were in
                        love with my wife."
                    Armitage laughed. "That's it," said he.
                        "My wife's spaniel, Courtleigh, who writes poetry, treats
                        me the same way. Get any anonymous letters yet?"
                    "Two," said I.
                    "Servants," said he. "I suppose you burnt them?
                        You didn't show them to your wife?"
                    "Heavens, no," replied I. "Why unsettle her? Why
                        upset a pleasant arrangement? My wife finds Macllvane useful. I find him
                        invaluable. He saves me hours of time. He spares me hours of
                        boredom."
                    "My feeling about Courtleigh," said Armitage. "And
                        both those chaps are comfortably trustworthy."
                    "I hadn't thought of MacIlvane in that way," said
                        I. "I know my wifeand that's enough."
                    Armitage reflected with an amused smile on his face. Finally, he said:
                        "I don't suppose there ever were since the world began so
                        thoroughly trustworthy women as these American women of the fashionable
                        crowdthose that have very rich husbandsand only those, of course, are really
                        fashionable. They may flirt a little, but never anything seriousnever
                        anything that'd give their husbands an excuse for throwing them
                        outand lose them their big houses and big incomes and social
                        leadership."
                    I had not thought of these aspects of the matter. I based my feeling of
                        security solely on my knowledge of my wife's intense
                        self-absorption. All the springs of sentimentexcept the shallow spring of
                        highfaluting talkhad dried up in her. She would listen to
                        MacIlvane's  flatteries as long as he
                        cared to pour them out. But if he ever tried to get her to think of him, she would feel outraged.
                    "I suppose," pursued Armitage, "we'd be
                        tremendously amused if we could overhear those chaps talking to our wives
                        about us. They don't dare presume to the extent of mentioning our
                        names. But they hand out generalities of roastinghow stupid most American
                        men are, how superior the women are, what a tragic condescension for a
                        wonderful American woman to have to live with a man who couldn't
                        appreciate her."
                    I nodded and laughed.
                    "Nothing a woman loves so muchan American woman with a little
                        miseducation befogging her mind and fooling her as to its limited
                        extentnothing she so dearly loves as to hear that she has a great intellect
                        and a great soul, complex, mysterious, beyond the comprehension of the
                        vulgar male clods about her. That's why they like foreigners. You
                        ought to watch those foreign chaps flatter our womenmake perfect fools of
                        them."
                    But I had no desire to watch women in any circumstances. I had no active
                        resentment against them as had Armitage. I simply wished to be let alone, to
                        be free to pursue my ambitions and my ideas of self-development. I had
                        ceased to feel about Margot. I was merely glad she was not a boy; for I felt
                        that if she were a boy, I should have to assert myself and do some drastic
                        and disagreeableand almost certainly disastrousdisciplining in my family.
                    
                    About a year and a half after my wife achieved her ambition, I began to feel
                        that she was spiritually bearing down upon me in pursuance of some new
                        secret plan.
                    During the year and a half she had been playing the fashionable social game
                        with the strenuous enthusiasm which only a womanI had almost said only an
                        American womanseems able to inject into the pursuit of objects that are of
                        no consequences whatsoever. And, in spite of the useful MacIlvane I had been
                        compelled to assist her far more than was to my liking. I went about enough
                        to get a thorough insight into fashion-ablenessand a profound distaste for
                        it. Of the many phases, ludicrous, repellent, despicable, pitiful, there was
                        one that made a deep impression upon me. It amazed me to find that the
                        "best" class of people was, if possible, more vulgarly
                        snobbish than the class from which I had comeeven than the
                        "Brooklyn bounders." I could not comprehendI cannot
                        comprehendhow those who have had the best opportunities are no more
                        intelligent, no broader of mind than those who have had no opportunities at
                        all. The ignorance, the narrowness of the men and women of the comfortable
                        classes!the laziness of their minds!the shallow cant about literature, art
                        and the like! Really, intelligence, activity of mind, seems confined to the
                        few who are pushing upward; and the masses of mankind in all classes seem
                        contented each class with its own peculiar wallow of ignorance.
                    But to Edna's secret plan. If you are a married man you will at once
                        understand what I mean when I  speak of having
                        a vague sensation of being borne down upon. She said nothing; she did
                        nothing. But I knew she was making ready to ask something to which she
                        believed she could get my consent only by the use of all her tact and skill
                        and charmfor she did not know her charms had ceased to charm, but thought
                        them more potent than ever. I waited with patience and composure; and in due
                        time she began cautious open approaches.
                    "Margot is almost ready to come out," said she.
                    "Money? "said I, smiling.
                    She rebuked this coarseness amiably. "Everybody
                        isn't always thinking of money, dear,"
                        said she.
                    "But why talk to me about anything else?
                        That's my only department in the family."
                    She deigned a smile for my pleasantry, then went on in her usual serious way:
                        "I wish to consult you about her education."
                    "Ohfinish as you've begun," said I. "I
                        suppose it's the best that can be done for a girl."
                    "But I can't find what I want," said she, with an
                        expression of sweet maternal solicitude. "I've always been
                        determined Margot should have the best education any girl in the whole world
                        could get."
                    "Go ahead," said I. "See that she gets
                        it."
                    "She shall have the perfect equipment of a lady of a woman of the
                        world," continued Edna, with growing enthusiasm. "She has
                        the beauty to set it off and we can afford to give it to her. I am willing
                        to make any sacrifices that may be necessary."
                    
                    I pricked up my ears. I always do when anyone, male or female, uses that word
                        sacrifice. I know a piece of selfishness is coming.
                    "As I was saying," pursued Edna, with the serene look of
                        the self-confident woman who is taking her husband in firm, strong hands,
                        "I have been unable to find what I want for her. Mrs. Armitage
                        tells me I'll not find it except in Paris."
                    "Wellwhy not go to Paris?" said I.
                    Did you ever lift an empty box that you thought full and heavy? My wife
                        looked as if she had just done that exceedingly uncomfortable thing.
                        "But I don't see II It would be a terrible sacrifice to
                        have to go and live in Paris," stammered she.
                    "Then don't do it," said I.
                    "But I must think of Margot!" exclaimed she hastily.
                    "Oh, Margot seems to be stepping along all right. She'll
                        never miss what she doesn't know about."
                    "But you must realize, dear, what an education she'd get in
                        Paris. And I suppose it would do me good, too. It's a shame that I
                        don't speak French. Everyone except me speaks it. They all had
                        French governesses when they were children."
                    "Some of them hadand some hadn't," said I.
                        "Armitage has told me things about your friends that make me
                        suspect they're doing fully as much bluffing as we are."
                    She winced, and sighed the sigh of the lady patient with a low husband.
                        "Then you think I ought to go?"said she.
                    
                    "I think you ought to do as you like," said I. "I
                        always have thought so. I always shall."
                    "And," continued she absently, "the society over
                        there must be charming. Really, I need the education as much as Margot does.
                        I do surprisingly well, considering what my early opportunities
                        were."
                    "I've never once heard you give yourself away,"
                        said I.
                    "I'm not that stupid," replied she. "Buta
                        while in Franceon the Continentand in England per haps"
                    "How long would you be gone?" interrupted I, to show her
                        that all this beating round Robin's barn was superfluous.
                    She gave me a coquettish look: "How long could you spare
                        me?"
                    "I can't tell till I've tried," said I,
                        with a gallant smilebut with no move toward her. You women who would be
                        wise, distrust the gallantry that is content with speech and look.
                    "You understand," pursued she, "if I started this
                        thing I'd put it throughno matter how much I missed you or how
                        homesick I was over there."
                    "You always do put things through," said I admiringly.
                        "When have you planned to start?"
                    "I haven't planned at all, as yet," replied she
                        and I saw she thought I had set a trap for her, and was delighted with
                        herself for having dodged it. Certainly never was there a husband with whom
                        indirection was more unnecessary. Yet she would not realize this, partly
                        because she had never bothered to discover what  manner of man I was, partly because she had one of those natures that
                        move only by secrecy and indirection.
                    "Do you expect me to go over with you?" inquired I.
                    "I only wish you would!" exclaimed she, but I distrusted
                        her enthusiasm.
                    "Couldn't MacIlvane take you over and settle you?"
                    Her face clouded. Her lip curled slightly. "I don't like
                        him as I did," said she. "I've found out
                        he's ridiculously vain and egotistical."
                    I laughed outright.
                    "What is it?" inquired she, elevating her eyebrows. She had
                        always disapproved my sense of humor.
                    "So he's been making love to youeh?" said I.
                    "No, indeed!" cried she, bridling haughtily.
                        "He'd not dare. But I saw he was beginning to presume in
                        that direction, and I checked him."
                    "Oh, he's harmless," said I. "Keep
                        friendly with him. He'd be the very person to settle you in Paris.
                        He lived there several years."
                    "It would cause scandal," said she. "If you
                        can't go, I can do well enough alone, I'm sure."
                    "I'd only be in the way," said I. "Let me
                        know when you wish to go, and I'll try to arrange it. But I
                        can't get away for at least three months."
                    "That would be too late," said she. "Margot must
                        be started at once. She hasn't any too much time before her coming
                        out. Also, Mrs. Armitage is sailing in two weeks, and she would be a great
                        help."
                    "Then you have decided to sail in two weeks?"  said I, adding before she had time to get
                        beyond a gathering frown of protest, "That suits me. I'll
                        make my own plans accordingly."
                    And in two weeks they sailed, I watching the big ship creep out of dock and
                        drop slowly down the river. Armitage and I drove away from the pier
                        together. We were in such high spirits that we had champagne with our
                    lunch.
                
                
                
                    VI
                    ARMITAGE and I were together every day. He attracted me
                        for the usual reason of congeniality, and also because he was giving me a
                        liberal education. I have never cared for books or, with two or three
                        exceptions, for book men. About both there is for me an atmosphere of
                        staleness, of tedium. I prefer to get what is in the few worth-while books
                        through the medium of some clear and original mindsuch a mind as Armitage
                        had. He ought to have been a great man. No, he was a great man; what I mean
                        to say is that his talents ought to have won his greatness recognition. He
                        did not lack capacity or energy; he showed a high degree of both in the
                        management and increase of his fortune. He lacked that species of vanity, I
                        guess it is, which spurs a man to make himself conspicuous. Also he had a
                        kind of laziness, and chose to be active only in the way that was easiest
                        and most agreeable for himthe making of money.
                    His father had been rich, and his grandfather; his great-grandfather had been
                        one of the richest men in Revolutionary times. His father was regarded as a
                        crank because he had imagination, and therefore despised the conventional
                        ideas of his own generation; to be regarded as thoroughly sane and sensible,
                        you  must be careful to be neither, but to
                        pattern yourself painstakingly upon the particular form of feeble-mindedness
                        and conventional silliness current in your time. Armitage's father
                        resolved that his son should not have his individuality clipped and moulded
                        and patterned by college and caste into the familiar type of upper-class
                        man. So Armitage went to public school, graduated from it into a factory,
                        then into an office, himself earned the money to carry out the ambitions for
                        study and travel with which his father had inspired him.
                    I think there was nothing worth the knowing about which Armitage had not
                        accurate essential information books, plays, pictures, music, literature,
                        history, economics, science, medicine, law, finance. He was a good shot and
                        a good horseman, could run an automobile, take it to pieces, put it together
                        again. He was a practical mechanic and a practical railroad man. He had a
                        successful model farm. "It doesn't take long to learn the
                        essentials about anything," said he, "if you will only put
                        your whole mind on it and not let up till you've got what you want.
                        And the trouble with most peoplewhy, they are narrow and ignorant and
                        incompetentit isn't lack of mind, but lack of interest. They have
                        no. curiosity." Nor was my friend Armitage a smatterer. He
                        didn't try to do everything; he contented himself
                        with knowledge, and did only one thingmade money out of
                        railroads.
                    When he saw that I really wished to be educated, he amused himself by
                        educating me. Not in a formal way, of course; but simply talking along,
                        about what  ever happened to come up. I have
                        never known a man to get anywhere, who did not have an excellent memory.
                        Lack of memorywhich means lack of the habit and power of giving attentionis
                        the cause of more failures than all other defects put together. If you
                        don't believe it, test the failures you know; perhaps you might
                        even test your own not too successful self. I had an unusual memory; and I
                        don't think Armitage or anyone ever told me anything worth knowing
                        that I did not stick to it and keep it where I could use it instantly.
                    Several months after his wife and mine departed, we were walking in the park
                        one afternoon the usual tramp round the upper reservoir to reduce or to keep
                        in condition. He said in the most casual way:
                    "My wife is coming next week, and will get her divorce at
                        once."
                    Taking my cue from his manner I showed even less surprise then I felt.
                        "This is the first I've heard of it," said I.
                    "Really?" said he carelessly. "Everyone
                        knows." He laughed to himself. "She is to marry Lord
                        Blankenshipthe Earl of Blankenship."
                    "And the children?" said I.
                    He shrugged his shoulders. "I don't know. Her people will
                        look after them. She has spoiled them beyond repair. I have no interest in
                        themnor they in me." After a little tramping in silence, he halted
                        and rested his hands on the railing and looked away across the lakelike
                        reservoir, its surface tossed up into white 
                        caps by the wind. "I loved her when we were married," said
                        he. "That caused all the mischief. I let her do as she pleased. She
                        was a fine girlgood family but poor. She pretended to be in sympathy with my
                        ideas." His lip curled in good-humored contempt. "I
                        believed in her enthusiasm. My fatherwonderfully sane old manwarned me she
                        was only after our money, but I wouldn't listen. Tried to quarrel
                        with him. He wouldn't have itgave me my way. It's not
                        strange I believed in her. She looked all that's high-mindedand
                        delicateand what they call aristocratic. Well, it is
                        aristocraticthe reality of aristocracy."
                    "Perhaps she was sincere," said I, out of the depths of my
                        own experience, "perhaps she honestly imagined she liked and wanted
                        the sort of life you pictured. We are all hypocrites, but most of us are
                        unconscious hypocrites."
                    "No doubt she did deceive herselfin part at least," he
                        admitted. "For a year or so after our marriage she kept up the
                        bluff. I didn't catch ondidn't find her outuntil we began
                        to differ about bringing up the children. Even then, I loved her so that I
                        let her have her way until it was too late."
                    "But," said I, "don't you owe it to them
                        to"
                    He interrupted with an impatient, "Didn't I try? But it was
                        hopeless. To succeed in this day, I'd have had to take the children
                        away off into the woods, with the chances that even there the servants
                        I'd be compelled to have would spoil themwould keep them reminded
                        of the rotten snobbishness they've been taught." He  laughed at me with mocking irony.
                        "You have a daughter," said he. "What about
                        her?"
                    "I was thinking of your boy," said I.
                    He frowned and looked away. After a long pause
                        "Hopelesshopeless," said he. "Believe mehopeless.
                        The boy is like her. No, I'll have to begin all over
                        again."
                    I gave an inquiring look.
                    "Marry again," explained he. "Another sort of
                        woman, and keep her and her children away from this world of ours.
                        I'd like to try the experiment. But He laughed
                        apologetically." I'm afraid I love the city and its
                        amusements too well. I'm not as determined nor as ardent as I once
                        was. What does it matter, anyway? So long as we are comfortable and well
                        amused, why should we bother? "After a silence," Another
                        mistake I madethe initial mistakewas in giving her a fortune. She is almost
                        as well fixed as I am. Don't make that mistake, Godfrey."
                    "I've already done it," said I. "And I
                        shall never be sorry that I did. I gave my wife the first large sum I made,
                        and I've added to it from time to time. I wanted her and Margot to
                        be safe, no matter what happened to me."
                    "A mistake," he said. "A sad mistake. I know how
                        you felt. I felt the same way. But there's something worse than the
                        more or less sentimental aversion to being loved and considered merely for
                        the money they can get out of you and can't get without
                        you."
                    "Nothing worse," I declared.
                    "Yes," he replied. "It's worse to give a
                        foolish  woman the power to make a fool of
                        herself, of her children, and of you."
                    "That is bad, I'll admit," said I. "But
                        the other is worseat least to me."
                    "You'd refuse to make a child behave itself, through the
                        selfish fear that it would hate you for doing so."
                    I laughed. "You know my weakness, I see," said I.
                    "There's the foolish American husband and father. No wonder
                        all the classes that ought to be leaders in development and civilization are
                        leaders only in luxury and folly."
                    "Oh, let them have a good timewhat they call a good time,"
                        said I. "As you said a moment ago, it doesn't
                        matter."
                    "If it only were a good timeto be ignorant and snobbish and lazy, to
                        drive instead of walking, to eat and drink instead of thinking, to be waited
                        upon instead of getting the education and the happiness that come from
                        serving others. Don't laugh at me. After all, while you and Iall
                        our sort of menare greedy, selfish grabbers, making thousands work for us,
                        still we do build up big enterprises, we do set things to moving, and we do
                        teach men the discipline of regular work by forcing them to work for us at
                        more or less useful things."
                    No doubt you, gentle reader, have fallen asleep over this conversation. I
                        understand perfectly that it is beyond you; for you have no conception of
                        the deep underlying principles of the relations of men and men or men and
                        women. But there may be among my readers a few who will see interest and
                        importance in this talk  with Armitage. It is
                        time the writers of stories concerned themselves with the realities of life
                        instead of with the showy and sensational things that obscure or hide the
                        realities. What would you think of the physiologist who issued a treatise on
                        physiology with no mention or account of the blood? Yet you read stories
                        about what purports to be life with no mention or account of moneythis, when
                        in any society money is the all-important factor. Put aside, if you can, the
                        prejudices of your miseducation and sthetics, of your false culture and your
                        false refinement, open your mind, think, and you will see
                        that I am right.
                    When we were well down toward the end of the Park, Armitage said:
                        "Pardon me a direct question. Have you and your wife
                        separated?"
                    "No," said I. "She has gone abroad to round out
                        Margot's educationand her own."
                    "You know what that means?"
                    "In a general way," replied I. "I'm
                        letting them amuse themselves. They don't need me, nor I them.
                        Perhaps when they come back" I did not finish my sentence.
                    He laughed. "That means you don't really care what happens
                        when they come back."
                    My smile was an admission of the correctness of his guess. We dropped our
                        domestic affairs and took up the matters that were more interesting and more
                        important to us.
                    If you have good sight, unimpaired eyes, you go about assumingwhen you think
                        of it at allthat good sight is the rule in the world and impaired eyes the
                        ex  ception. But let your sight begin to fail,
                        let your eyes become darkened, and soon you discover that you are one of
                        thousandsthat good sight is the exception, that almost everyone has
                        something the matter with his eyes. The reason human beings know so little
                        about human nature, the reason the sentimental flapdoodle about human
                        virtues, in the present not very far-advanced stage of human evolution, is
                        so widely believed and doubt of it so indignantly denounced as cynicism,
                        lies in the fact that the average human being is ignorant of the afflictions
                        of his own soul. This would be pleasant and harmless enough, and to destroy
                        the delusion would be wickedly cruel, were it not that the only way to cure
                        ailments of whatever sort is to diagnose them. What hope is there for the
                        man devoured of a fever who fancies and insists that he is healthy? What
                        hope is there for the man who eats pleasant-tasting slow poison under the
                        impression that it is food? What a quaint notion it is that the truth, the
                        sole source of health and happiness, is bad for some people, chiefly for
                        those sick unto death through the falsehoods of ignorance and vanity! We
                        humans are like the animal that claws and bites the surgeon who is trying to
                        set its broken leg.
                    But I am wandering a little. Discover that you have any ailment of body or of
                        soul, and you soon discover how widespread that ailment is. You do not even
                        appreciate how widespread, incessant, and poignant are the ravages of death
                        until your own family and friends begin to die off. I had no notion of the
                        extent of the social or domestic malady of abandoned husbands and fathers
                        until I became one of that curious class.
                    
                    Among the masses there is the great and growing pestilence of abandoned
                        wiveshusbands, worn out by the uncertainties of the laboring man's
                        income, and disgusted with the incompetence of their wives and with the
                        exasperations of the badly brought up children such husbands flying by tens
                        of thousands to escape what they cannot cure or endure. Among the classes,
                        from the plutocracy down to and through the small merchants and professional
                        men, I now discovered that there was a corresponding and reversed diseasethe
                        abandoned husband.
                    The husband and father, working hard and presently accumulating enough for
                        ease in his particular station of life, suddenly finds himself supporting,
                        with perhaps all the money he can scrape together, a distant and completely
                        detached family. He mails his money regularly, and with a fidelity that will
                        appear grotesque, noble, or pitiful according to the point of view. In
                        return he gets occasional letters from the loved onesperfunctory these
                        letters somehow sound, or would sound to the critical, though they are
                        liberally sprinkled with loving, even fawning phrases, such as
                        "dear, sweet papa" and "darling husband.
                        Where-are "the loved ones?" If the family home is in a
                        small town or country, they are in New York or some other city of America
                        usually. If the family home is in the city, they are abroad. What are they
                        doing? Sacrificing themselves! Especially poor wife and mother. She would
                        infinitely prefer being at home with beloved husband. But she must not be
                        selfish. She must carry her part of their common burden. While he toils to provide for the children  dren, she toils in the loneliness or unhappiness of New
                        York or Paris or Rome or Dresden or Genoa. And what is she toiling at in
                        those desert places? Why, at educating the children!
                    Sometimes it's music. Sometimes it's painting. Again
                        it's "finishing," whatever that may mean, or
                        plain, vague "education." There was a time when men of any
                        sort could be instantly abashed, silenced and abased by the mere pronouncing
                        of the word education. That happy day for mental fakers is nearing its
                        close. Now, at the sound of the sacred word many a sensible, practical man
                        has the courage to put on a grin. I have been credited with saying that a
                        revival of the declining child-bearing among American women might be looked
                        for, now that they have found the usefulness of children as an excuse for
                        escape from home and husband. I admit having said this, but I meant it as a
                        jest. However, there is truth in the jest. I don't especially blame
                        the women. Why should they stay at home when they have no sympathy with the
                        things that necessarily engross the husband? Why stay at home when it bores
                        them even to see that the servants carry on the house decently? Why stay at
                        home when they simply show there from day to day how little they know about
                        housekeeping? Why stay at home when there is an amiable fool willing to mail
                        them his money, while they amuse themselves gadding about Europe or some big
                        city of America?
                    Abandoned wives at the one end of the social scale, abandoned husbands at the
                        other end. Please note that in both cases the deep underlying cause is the
                        same  money. Too little money, and the husband
                        flies; too much money, and it is the wife who breaks up the family.
                    As soon as I discovered, by being elected to membership, the existence of the
                        universal order of abandoned husbands I took the liveliest interest in it. I
                        was eager to learn whether there was another fool quite so foolish as
                        myself, also whether the other fools were aware of their own folly. I found
                        that most of them were rather proud of their membership, indulged in a
                        ludicrous cocking of the comb and waggling of the wattles when they spoke of
                        "my family over on the other side for a few years," or of
                        "my wife, poor woman, exiled in Paris to cultivate my
                        daughter's voice," or of "my invalid wife she has
                        to live in the south of France. It's a sad trial to us
                        both."
                    Thenbut this came much laterI discovered that these credulous, money-mailing
                        fools, including myself, were not quite so imbecile, as a class, as they
                        seemed to be. I discovered that they were secretly, often unconsciously,
                        glad to be rid of their uncongenial families, and regarded any money they
                        mailed as money well spent. They toiled cheerfully at distasteful tasks to
                        get the wherewithal to keep their loved ones far, far away!
                    The absence of Edna and Margot was an enormous relief to me. Edna was
                        constantly annoying me to accompanying her to places to which I did not care
                        to go. I like the theatre and I rather like some operas, but when I go to
                        either it is for the sake of the performance. Going with Edna and her
                        friends meant a tedious social function. We arrived late; we did not hear
                        the play or  the opera. As for the purely
                        social functions, they were intolerable. Perhaps I should not have been so
                        unhappy had I been the kind of man who likes to talk for the sake of hearing
                        his own voice. Women are attentive listeners when the man who is talking is
                        worth flattering. But I talk only for purpose, and when I listen I wish it
                        to be to some purpose also. So, Edna, always urging me to do something
                        distasteful or giving me the sense that she was about to ask me, or was
                        irritated against me for being "disobliging "Edna made me
                        uncomfortable, increasingly uncomfortable as I grew more intelligent, more
                        critical, more discriminating. As for Margot, I could not talk with her ten
                        minutes without seeing protrude from her sweet loveliness some vulgarity of
                        snobbishness. It irritated me to hear her speak to a servant. I had to
                        rebuke her privately several times for the tone she used in addressing her
                        governess or my secretarythis when her mother and all her mother's
                        friends used precisely the same repellant "gracious" tone
                        in the same circumstances. I saw that she, sometimes instinctively, again
                        deliberately tried to hide her real self from me, that I was making a
                        hypocrite of her. Any sort of frankness or sympathy between her and me was
                        impossible.
                    A few weeks after their departure I closed the house. It came to me that I
                        need endure its discomforts no longer, that I could get rid of those smelly,
                        dull-witted, low-minded foreign animals, that I need not endure food sent up
                        from a kitchen as to which I had from time to time disgusting proofs that it
                        was not clean. I closed the house and left the mice and roaches and other
                        insects  to such short provender as would be
                        provided by care-taker and family. I took an apartment in a first-class
                        hotel.
                    When Armitage got clear of his wife he took the adjoining apartment. And how
                        comfortable and how cheerful we were!
                    The women with their incompetence and indifference have about destroyed the
                        American home. To get good service, to have capable people assisting you,
                        you must yourself be capable. The incapacity of the
                        "ladies" has driven good servants out of the business of
                        domestic service, has left in it only the worthless and unreliable creatures
                        who now take care of the homes. If you find any part of the laboring class
                        deteriorating, don't blame them. To do that is to get nowhere, is
                        to be unjust and shallow to boot. Instead, look at the employers of that
                        labor. Every time, you will find the fault is there, just as an ill-mannered
                        or a bad child means unfaithful parents. The masses of mankind must have
                        leadership, guidance, example. My experience has been that they respond when
                        the dominating classes do their dutythat is, pay proper wages, demand good
                        service, and know what good service is.
                    
                    What a relief and a joy that hotel was! Armitage and I had our own cook, and
                        so could have the simple dishes we liked. We attended to the marketingand
                        both knew what sort of meat and vegetables and fruit to buy, and were not
                        long trifled with by our butcher, our grocer, and our dairyman, spoiled
                        though they were by the ladies. And our apartments were cleanreally clean,
                        and after the first few weeks our servants were  contented, and abandoned the evil ways slip-shod mistresses had got them
                        into. Pushing my inquiries, I found that not only our hotel, but every
                        first-class hotel in the fashionable district was filled with the remnants
                        of shattered homeshusbands who had compelled their wives to give up the
                        expensive and dirty attempts at housekeeping; husbands who had abandoned
                        their families in country homes or in other cities and towns and had,
                        surreptitiously or boldly, returned to bachelor bliss; husbands who had been
                        abandoned by their families, none of these last cases being more
                        heart-breaking than Armitage's or my own. The story ran that he was
                        on the verge of melancholia because his beautiful wife had cast him off.
                        There was no more truth in this than there would have been in a tale of my
                        lonely grief. Had it not been for Armitage, pointing out to me the truth, I
                        might have fancied myself a deserted unfortunate. It would not have been an
                        isolated instance of a human being not knowing when he is well off.
                    I did not see my family again until the following spring. Business compelled
                        me to go abroad, and they had come over to London for the season.
                    When I descended from the train at Euston, a little confused by the
                        strangeness, I saw my wife a few yards down the platform. Beside her stood a
                        tall, beautiful young woman, whom I did not instantly recognize as my
                        daughter. Both were dressed with the perfection of taste and of detail that
                        has made the American woman famous throughout the world. I like well-dressed
                        womenand well-dressed men, too. I should certainly  have been convicted of poor taste had I not been dazzled by
                        those two charming examples of fashion and style. They looked like two
                        lovely sisters, the elder not more than five or six years in advance of the
                        younger. I was a youthful-looking man, myselfexcept, perhaps, when I was in
                        the midst of affairs and took on the air of responsibility that cannot
                        appear in the face of youth. But no one would have believed there were so
                        few years between Edna and me. Nor was she in the least made-up. The youth
                        was genuinely there.
                    That meeting must have impressed the by-standers, who were observing the two
                        women with admiring interest. I felt a glow of enthusiasm at sight of these
                        elegant beauties. I was proud to be able to claim them. As for them, they
                        became radiant the instant they saw me.
                    "Godfrey! " cried Edna loudly, rushing toward me.
                    "Papadear old papa! " cried Margot, waving her arms in a
                        pretty gesture of impatient adoration while her mother was detaining me from
                        her embrace.
                    "Wellwell!" cried I. "What a pair of girls! My,
                        but you're tearing it off!"
                    They laughed gayly, and hugged and kissed me all over again. For a moment I
                        felt that I had been missed and that I had missed them. A good-looking,
                        shortish and shy young man, dressed and groomed in the attractive English
                        upper-class way of exquisiteness with no sacrifice of manliness, was now
                        brought forward. "Lord Crossleymy husband," said Edna.
                    "Pleased, I'm sure," murmured the young man,
                        giving me his hand with an awkwardness that was somehow  not awkwardor, rather, that conveyed a subtle impression of
                        good breeding. "Now that you've got him or that
                        he's got you," proceeded he, "I'll
                        toddle along."
                    My wife gave him her hand carelessly. "Until dinner," she
                        said.
                    Margot shook hands with him, and nodded and smiled. When he was gone I
                        observed the carriage near which we were standingand I knew at once that it
                        was my wife's carriage. It was a grand car of state, yet quiet and
                        simple. I often looked at it afterwards, trying to puzzle out how it
                        contrived to convey two exactly opposite impressions. I could never solve
                        the mystery. On the lofty box sat the most perfect model of a coach-man I
                        had seen up to that time. Beside the open door in the shallow, loftily hung
                        body of the carriage stood an equally perfect footman. I was soon to get
                        used to that marvelous English ability at specializing mena system by which
                        a man intended for a certain career is arrested in every other kind of
                        growth, except only that which tends to make him more perfect for his
                        purpose. Observing an English coachman, or valet or butler or what not, you
                        say, "Here is a remarkably clever man." Yet you soon find
                        out that he is practically imbecile in every other respect but his
                        specialty.
                    We entered the carriage, I sitting opposite the ladies and most uncomfortable
                        I was; for the carriage was designed to show off its occupants, and to look
                        well in it they had to know precisely how to sit, which I did not. No one
                        noticed me, however. There was too much pleasure to be got out of observing
                        Edna and Margot,  who were looking like
                        duchesses out of a storybook. I knew they were delightfully conscious of the
                        sensation they were making, yet they talked and laughed as if they were
                        alone in their own sitting rooma trick which is part of that
                        "education" of which you have heard something, and will
                        hear still more. The conversation seemed easy. In fact, it was only
                        animated. It was a fair specimen of that whole mode of life. You have seen
                        the wonderful peaches that come to New York from South Africa early in the
                        winterhave delighted in their exquisite perfection of color and form. But
                        have you ever tasted them? I would as lief eat saw-dust; I would rather eat
                        itfor, of sawdust I should expect nothing.
                    "That young man is the Marquis of Crossley," said my wife.
                    I liked to hear her pronounce a title in private. It gave you the sense of
                        something that tasted finemade you envy her the sensation she was getting.
                        "Who is he?" said I.
                    Margot laughed navelyan entrancing display of white teeth and rose-lined
                        mouth. "Marquis of Crossley, papa," she said.
                        "That's alland quite enough it is."
                    "I don't know much about the big men in England,"
                        said I. "He looked rather young to amount to very much."
                    "He's as old as you are," said Edna, a flash of
                        ill-humor appearing and vanishing.
                    I was astonished. "I thought him a boy," said I.
                        "He's one of the greatest nobles in Englandone  of the greatest in Europe," said
                        Ednaand I saw Margot's eyes sparkling.
                    "He seemed a nice fellow," said I amiably. "How
                        you have grown, Margot!"
                    "Hasn't she, though!" cried my wife.
                        "Aren't you proud of her? "
                    "I'm proud of you both," said I. "You
                        make me feel old and dingy."
                    "You've been working too hard, poor dear," said
                        Edna tenderly. "If you only would stay over here and learn the art
                        of leisure."
                    "I'm afraid I'd be dismally bored," said
                        I.
                    I had heard much about the art of loafing as practiced by Europeans, and I
                        had not been attracted by what I had heard. It was inconceivable to me that
                        intelligent grown men could pass their time at things about equal to marbles
                        and tops. But I suppose I am abnormal, as they allege. Many men seem to look
                        on mental effort of any kind as toilsome, and seize the first opportunity to
                        return to the mindless frolickings of the beasts of the field. To me mental
                        effort is a keen pleasure. And I must add I can't help thinking it
                        is to everybody who has real brains.
                    The conversation would have died in distressing agony had it not been for the
                        indomitable pluck of my wife. She struggled desperatelyperhaps may even have
                        deceived herself into thinking that she was glad to see me and that the
                        carriage was the scene of a happy reunion. But I, who had a thorough
                        training in quickly sizing up situations, saw the truththat I was a rank
                        outsider, to both wife and daughter; that they were  strangers to me. I began to debate what was the shortest time
                        I could decently stop in London.
                    "We are to be presented at Court next week," said Edna.
                    Margot's eyes were again sparkling. It was the sort of look the
                        novelists put on the sweet young girl's face when she sees her
                        lover coming.
                    "Yesnext weeknext Thursday," said Edna. "And so
                        another of the little duchess's dreams is coming true."
                    "Is it exciting?" said I to Margot.
                        Somehow reference to the "little duchess" irritated me.
                    "Rather!" exclaimed Margot, fairly glowing with ecstasy.
                        "You put on the most wonderful dress, and you drive in a long, long
                        line of wonderful carriages, with all the women in wonderful dresses. And
                        you go into the palace through lines and lines of gorgeous liveries and
                        uniformsand you wait in a huge grand room for an hour or so, frightened to
                        deathand then you walk into the next room and make the courtesy you have
                        been practicing for weeksand you pass on."
                    "Good!" cried I. "What then?"
                    "Why you go home, half dead from the nervous shock. Oh,
                        it's wonderful!"
                    It seemed to mefor I was becoming somewhat critical, as is the habit in moods
                        of irritationit seemed to me that Margot's elaborate and costly
                        education might have included the acquiring of a more extensive vocabulary.
                        That word wonderful was beginning to get on my nerves. Still, this was
                        hypercriticism. A lovely woman does not need a vocabulary,  or anything else but a lovely dress and
                        plenty of money to provide background. "Yesit must
                        bewonderful," said I.
                    "We've been working at it for weeks, mamma and I,"
                        continued she. "I'm sure we shall do well. I can hardly
                        wait. Just fancy! I'm to meet the king and the
                            queen!"
                    
                    I saw that Edna was in the same ecstatic trance. I leaned back and tried to
                        distract myself with the novelty of London houses and crowds. It may be you
                        understand the mingling of pity, contempt, anger, and amusement that filled
                        my breast. If you do not understand, explanation would merely weary you. I
                        was no longer proud of my beautiful family; I wished to get away from them,
                        to forget them. Edna and Margot chatted on and on about the king and queen,
                        about the various titled people they knew or hoped to know, about the
                        thrills of aristocratic society. I tried not to listen. After a while I
                        said, with I hope not unsucessful attempt at amiability:
                    "I'm sorry I shan't be here to witness your
                        triumph."
                    Across Edna's face swept a flash of vividI had almost said
                        viciousannoyance. "You're not going before the
                        drawing-room at Buckingham Palace!" cried she.
                    "I'll have to," said I.
                    "But you can't!" protested Margot, tears of
                        vexation in her eyes. "Everyone will think it's dreadfully
                        queer."
                    "Don't fret about that, my dear," replied I
                        lightly.
                    
                    "I know how it is over here. So long as you've got the cash
                        they'll never ask a question. We Americans mean money to themand
                        that's all."
                    "Oh, papa!" cried Margot.
                    "Don't put such ideas into the child's head,
                        Godfrey," said my wife, restraining herself in a most ladylike
                        manner.
                    "She knows," said I. "So do you. Money is
                        every-thing with aristocracies everywhere. They must live luxuriously
                        without work. That can't be done without moneylots of money. So
                        aristocrats seriously think of nothing else, whatever they may
                        talk."
                    "You'll have a better opinion of them when you know
                        them," said Edna, once more serene and sweetly friendly.
                    "I don't think badly of them," I replied.
                        "I admire their cleverness. But you mustn't ask me to
                        respect them. They hardly expect it. They don't respect themselves.
                        If they did, they'd not be stealing, but working."
                    Margot listened with lowered eyes. I saw that she was ashamed of and for me.
                        Edna concealed her feelings better. She forced an amiable smile. "I
                        don't know much about these things," she said politely.
                        "But, Godfrey, you mustn't desert us, at least not until
                        after the drawing-room. I've told our ambassador you're to
                        be here, and he has gone to no end of trouble to arrange for you."
                    "Howard?" said I. "That pup! I despise him.
                        He's a rotten old snob. They tell me his toadyism turns the stomach
                        of even the English. He's a disgrace to  our country. But I suppose he's little if any worse
                        than most of our ambassadors over here. They've all bought their
                        jobs to gratify their own and their wives' taste for shoe
                        polish."
                    This speech so depressed the ladies that their last remnant of vivacity fled,
                        not to return. You are sympathizing with them, gentle reader, and they are
                        welcome to your sympathy. We drove in silence the rest of the way to the
                        hotel in Piccadilly, where they were installed in pompous luxury and had
                        made equally luxurious provision for me. When I was alone with my valet I
                        reasoned myself out of the grouchy mood into which the evidences of my
                        family's fresh access of folly had thrown me. To quarrel with them,
                        to be irritated against them, was about as unreasonable as attacking a black
                        man for not being white. I had long since realized, as the result of much
                        experience and reflection, that character is no more to be changed than any
                        other inborn quality. My wife had been born an aristocrat, and had brought
                        into the world an aristocratic daughter. She was to be blamed neither for
                        the one thing nor for the other. And it ill became my pretensions to
                        superior intellect to gird at her and at Margot. The thing for me to do was
                        to let them alonekeep away.
                    At dinner, which was served in our apartment, I took a different tone with
                        them, and they met me more than half way. So cheered was my lovely daughter
                        that after dinner she perched on the arm of my chair and ventured to bring
                        up the dangerous subject. Said she:
                    "You're not going to be mean to me and run away, are you,
                        papa?"
                    
                    Looking at Edna, but addressing Margot, I replied: "Your mother will
                        tell you that it's best. We three never can agree in our ideas of
                        things. I'm an irritation. I spoil your pleasure."
                    "Nono, indeed!" cried the girl. "I've
                        been looking forward to your coming. I've been telling everybody
                        how handsome and superior you are. And I want them to see for
                        themselves."
                    Most pleasant to hear from such rare prettiness, and most sincerely spoken.
                    "So many of the American men in society over here are
                        common," proceeded she, "and even those who
                        aren't so very common somehow seem so. They are down on their knees
                        before titles, and they actlike servants. Even Mr. Howard He
                        oughtn't to show his feelings so plainly. Of course we all feel
                        impressed and honored by being taken up by real titled people of old
                        families, but it's such bad form to show, and it interferes with
                        getting on. When I'm talking to Lord Crossley about that
                        drawing-room, I act as if it were nothing."
                    "I see you are being well educated," said I, laughing.
                    "Oh, yes. Mamma and I have worked. We've not had an idle
                        moment."
                    "I believe you," said I.
                    "You will stay, papawon't you?"
                    I shook my head. But it was no longer the positive gesture. My besetting sin,
                        my good nature, had possession of me. Remember, it was after dinner, and my
                        beautiful daughter was caressing my cheek and was  pleading in a voice whose modulations had been cultivated by
                        the best masters in Paris.
                    "But I don't want people to think I was deceiving them
                        about my papa."
                    "I'm willing to be exhibited to a select few in the next
                        two or three days," I conceded. "They will tell the
                        others."
                    And with that they had to be content. In the faint hope of inducing me to
                        change my mind, Ednathe devoid of the sense of humortook me to a
                        tailor's and had me shown pictures and models of the court costume
                        I would wear. But I remained firm. A sense of humor would have warned her
                        that a person of my sort would have an aversion to liveries of every kind,
                        to any costume that stamps a man as one of a class. I am perhaps foolishly
                        jealous of my own individuality. But I cannot help it. A king in his robes,
                        a general in his uniformexcept in battle where it's as necessary
                        and useful as night shirt or pajamas in bedany sort of livery seems pitiful
                        and contemptible to me. I will wear the distinguishing dress of the human
                        race and the male sex, but further than that classification I refuse to
                        move. Also, what business had I, citizen of a democracy whose chief idea is
                        the barbarism and silliness of aristocracywhat business had I going to see a
                        king and a queen? I should have felt that I was aiding them in the triumph
                        of dragging democracy at their chariot wheels. No, I would not go to levees
                        and drawing-rooms. You may say I showed myself an absurd extremist. Well,
                        perhaps so. But, as it seems to be necessary to go to one extreme or the
                        other, I  prefer the extreme of exaggerated
                        and vainglorious self-respect.
                    "The king and queen are no doubt nice people," said I to
                        Margot. "But if I meet them, it must be on terms of equalityand for
                        some purpose less inane than exchanging a few set phrases."
                    Edna and Margot seemed to feel that they had, on the whole, a presentable
                        specimen of male relative to exhibit; for they made the most of the four
                        days I gave them. Through Hilda Armitage, now Lady Blankenship, and much
                        freshened up by the more congenial atmosphere, they had got in with the set
                        that is the least easy of access to Americansthough, of course, it is not
                        actually difficult for any American with plenty of money and a
                        'willingness to spend and good guidance in how to spend. And I must
                        admit I enjoyed myself in those four days. The women were, for the most
                        part, rather slow, though I recall two who had real intelligence, and I
                        don't think there was a single one quite so devoid of knowledge of
                        important subjects as our boasted "bright " American
                        women. The men were distinctly attractive. They had information, they had
                        breadththe thing the upper-class men of America often lack. Also, they were
                        entirely free from that ill-at-easeness about their own and their
                        neighbor's position in society which makes the American upper
                        classes tiresome and ridiculous.
                    It amused me to observe the Americans in this environment. Both our women and
                        our men seemed uneasy, small, pinched. You could distinguish the American
                             man instantly by his pinched, tight
                        expression of an upper servant out for a holiday. I could feel the same
                        thing in our women, but I doubt not their looks and dress and vivacity
                        concealed it from the Englishmen. Anyhow, women are used to being nothing in
                        themselves, to taking rank and form from their surroundings. While with us
                        it seems to be true that the women are wholly responsible for social
                        position with all its nonsense, the deeper truth is that they owe everything
                        to the possessions of their fathers or husbands. Without that backing they
                        would be nothing. Everything must ultimately rest upon a substantiality. In
                        themselves, unsupported, the women's swollen pretensions would
                        vanish into thin air.
                    Lord Crossley was to have dined with us my first evening in London, but was
                        prevented by suddenly arising business in the country. Next day he came to
                        lunch, and I at once saw that he was after Margot hammer and tongs. I
                        discovered it not by the way he treated her, but by his attitude toward her
                        mother and me. He seemed a thoroughly satisfactory young man in every way,
                        and I especially liked his frankness and simplicity. Edna had devoted a
                        large part of a long sight-seeing tour with me to an account of his grandeur
                        in the British aristocracy. Having had experience at that time of the
                        American brand of aristocracy only, I was ignorant of the European kinds
                        that have the aristocratic instinct in the most acute formthe ingrowing
                        form. I know now that our own sort, unpleasant and unsightly though it is,
                        cannot compare in malignance, in littleness and meanness of soul with  the European sort. Just as the noisy blowhard
                        is a modest fellow and harmless, and on acquaintance lovable in comparison
                        with the silent, brooding egotist, just so is the American aristocrat in
                        comparison with the European. An American aristocrat has been known to
                        forget himself and be human. I recall no instance of that sort in an
                        European born and bred to the notion that his flesh and blood are of a
                        subtler material than the flesh and blood of most men. However, as I was
                        saying, at the time of my first visit to Europe I knew nothing of these
                        matters, and Lord Crossley seemed to me a simple, ingenuous young man, most
                        attractively boyish for his years.
                    "That chap wants to marry Margot," said I to Edna when we
                        were alone later in the afternoon.
                    "I think so," said she. "Several young men wish to
                        marry her. But she is in no hurry. She's not nineteen yet, and she
                        would like a duke."
                    "To be sure," said I. "But she may not be able to
                        love a duke."
                    "I never heard of a girl who wouldn't love a duke if she
                        got the chance," said Edna. "There are only fiveEnglish
                        dukes, I meanwho are eligible. Margot has met three of themand one, the Duke
                        of Brestwell, has taken quite a fancy to her." Carelessly, but with
                        nervous anxiety underneath, "You wouldn't have any
                        objection?"
                    "I? Why?"
                    "Ohyou are soso peculiar in some ways."
                    "Anyone who pleases Margot will suit me," said I.
                    "We were afraid you'd be prejudiced against  titles. You've been with that
                        eccentric Mr. Armitage so muchand you always have been against the sort of
                        things Margot and I like."
                    "I've no objection to titles," said I.
                        "In fact, I think Margot will be happier if she marries a title.
                        You've educated her so well that she'll never see the man
                        or think of him."
                    "How little you know her! " cried Edna, pathetically.
                        "And how unjust to me your prejudices make you. I've
                        brought her up to be all refinementall sentimentall heart. She looks only at
                        the highest and best."
                    "At the duke," said I.
                    "Certainly at the duke," said she. "Her tastes are
                        for the life where a woman can show her beauty of soul to the best advantage
                        and can do the most good. There is no career for a woman in America. But
                        over here a woman married into the aristocracy has a real career."
                    "At what?"said I.
                    "As a recognized social leader. As a leader in charities and all
                        sorts of good movements."
                    "Ah, I see," said Iand there I stopped, for I had learned
                        not to argue with my wifeor with anyone else, male or femalewhen the subject
                        is sheer twaddle. "Yes, I think Margot would do well to marry over
                        here and to have a dazzling career. I'm sure she'd never
                        get tired of thispardon metreadmill. I observe that it's better
                        organized than the imitation one we have over in apos;the
                        States.'"
                    "I should say!" cried Edna. "You've no
                        idea  how cheap and common the best you have
                        in New York is beside the social life here. I've been here only a
                        year, but already there have been the greatest changes in me. Don't
                        you notice?"
                    "I do," said I. "And I can honestly say you have
                        changed for the better. You've learned to cover it up."
                    She looked inquiringly at me, but I did not care to explain what the
                        "it"was that she had learned to cover. A slight flush
                        appeared in her cheeks, and I knew intuitively that she thought I was
                        alluding to her humble origin. I did not disabuse her mind of this
                        impression. She would have been angry had I explained that I meant her
                        social ambitions which I thought vulgar and she thought refined. Both she
                        and Margot, except in occasional unguarded moments in privacy, had indeed
                        vastly improved in manners. They had learned the trick of the aristocrats
                        they associated withthe trick of affecting simplicity and equality and
                        quietly confident ease. There was a notable difference, and altogether in
                        their favor, between their manners and the manners of the former Mrs.
                        Armitage and other American women. Whatever might justly be said in the way
                        of criticism of my wife, it assuredly could not be said that she was lacking
                        in agility at "catching on." Armitage once said to me,
                        "Your wife is a marvelous woman. I never saw or heard of her making
                        a break." This tribute can be appreciated only when you recall
                        whence she sprungand how much of her origin remained with
                        hernecessarilythrough all her climbings and soarings.
                    
                    "You prefer it over here?" said Iwe were still driving.
                    "If it weren't for you, I'd never go
                        back," said she.
                    "For me?" said I. "Oh, don't bother about
                        me."
                    "But I do," replied she sweetly. And her hand covertly
                        stole into mine for a moment. "Sometimes I get so homesick,
                        Godfrey, that's it all I can do to fight off the impulse to take
                        the first steamer."
                    "I tried to look as a man should on hearing such pleasant and
                        praiseworthy sentiments from the wife of his bosom.
                    "You've acted cold andand reserved with me," she
                        went on. "I wanted to come to you last night. But I hadn't
                        the courage. You are such a mixture of tenderness andand aloofness. You have
                        the power to make even me feel like a stranger."
                    "I'm sure I don't mean to be that way,"
                        said I, thoroughly uncomfortable.
                    "Margot was speaking of it," proceeded Edna. "She
                        saidpoor affectionate childthat she hardly dared put her arms round you and
                        kiss you. You oughtn't to repulse the child that way, Godfrey. She
                        has a tender, loving heart. And she adores you. She and I talk of you a long
                        time every day. I'd insist on it as a matter of dutyfor
                        I'd not let your child forget you. But I don't need to
                        insist. She refers everything to you, and whenever she's unusually
                        happy, she always says: 'If papa could only be enjoying this with
                        us!'
                    I saw that she had worked herself up into a state of excitement. My good
                        sense told me that there was  no genuineness
                        in either her affection or Margot's. But I had no doubt they both
                        thought themselves genuine. And that was quite enough to give me, the
                        easy-going American slob of a husband and father, an acute attack of guilty
                        conscience. The upshot was 
                    But you who have an impressionable heart and a keen sense of your own
                        shortcomings can guess what it was. Edna and I resumed the relations of
                        affectionate husband and wife for the rest of mybriefstop in London. I
                        remained several days longer than I had intendedstayed on because I did not
                        wish to hurt her feelings. And I bought her and Margot all sorts of jewelry
                        and gew-gaws, largely increased her personal fortune, did not utter a word
                        that would ruffle either of them. And I left them convinced that I was going
                        only because business not to be neglected compelled.
                    They say that the hypocrite wife is a common occurrence. I wonder if the
                        hypocrite husband is rare. I wonder if there are not more instances than
                        this one of the husband and the wife playing a cross game of hypocrisy, with
                        each fancying the other deceived?
                    So busy was I with my own laborings to deceive my wife as to the true state
                        of my feelings toward her that not until I was halfway across the Atlantic
                        did I happen to think the obvious thought. You, gentle reader, have not
                        thought it. But perhaps some more intelligent species of reader has. In
                        mid-Atlantic, I suddenly thought: "Why sheshe and Margotwere
                        playing a gamethe same game. For what purpose?"
                    It was not many months before I found out.
                
                
                
                    VII
                    THAT summer Armitage was spending the week ends out on
                        Long Island at the country place of his sister, Mrs. Kirkwood. He kept his
                        yacht in the tiny harbor there and made short cruises in the Sound and up
                        the New England coast. Naturally I often went with him. Those parties
                        usually amused me. He knew a dozen interesting peopleworking people such as
                        Boris Raphael, the painter, and his wife, the architect, the Horace
                        Armstrongs who had been divorced and remarried, a novelist named Beechman
                        who wrote about the woods and lived in the wilderness in the Southwest most
                        of the year, Susan Lenox the actress several others of the same kind. Then
                        there was his sisterMary Kirkwood.
                    For a reason which will presently appear I have not before spoken of Mrs.
                        Kirkwood, though I had known her longer than I had known Armitage. Her
                        husband had been treasurer of the road when I was an under Vice President.
                        He speculated in the road's funds and it so happened that, when he
                        was about to be caught, I was the only man who could save him from exposure.
                        Instead of asking me directly, he sent his wife to me. I can see her now as
                        she was that day pale, haggard, but with that perfect composure which
                        deceives the average human being into thinking, "Here  is a person without nerves." She
                        told me the whole story in the manner of one relating a matter in which he
                        has a sympathetic but remote interest. She made not the smallest attempt to
                        work upon my feelings, to move me to pity. "And," she
                        ended, "if you will help him cover up the shortage, it will be made
                        good and he will resign. I shall see to it that he does not take another
                        position of trust."
                    "Why didn't he come to me, himself?" said I.
                        "Why did he send you?"
                    She looked at mea steady gaze from a pair of melancholy gray eyes.
                        "I cannot answer that," said she.
                    "I beg your pardon," stammered I; for I guessed the answer
                        to my question even as I was asking it. I knew the manan arrogant coward,
                        with the vanity to lure him into doing preposterous things and wilting
                        weakness the instant trouble began to gather. "You wish me to save
                        him?" I said, still confused and not knowing how to meet the
                        situation.
                    "I am asking rather for myself," replied she. "I
                        married him against my father's wishes and warning. I have not
                        loved him since the second month of our marriage. If he should be exposed, I
                        think the disgrace would kill me." Her lip curled in self-scorn.
                        "A queer kind of pride, isn't it?" she said.
                        "To be able to live through the real shame, and to shrink only from
                        the false."
                    "I'll do it," said I, with a sudden complete
                        change of intention. "That is, if you promise me he will resign and
                        not try to get a similar position elsewhere".
                    
                    "I promise," said she, rising, to show that she was taking
                        not a moment more of my time than was unavoidable. "And I thank you
                        "and that was all.
                    I kept my part of the agreement; she kept hers. In about two years she
                        divorced him because he was flagrantly untrue to her. He married the woman
                        and supported her and himself on the allowance Mary Kirkwood made him as
                        soon as her father's death let her into her share of the property.
                        When I saw her again one night at dinner at her brother's house,
                        before his wife divorced himwe met as if we were entire strangers. Neither
                        of us made the remotest allusion to that first meeting.
                    Going down to her house with Armitage often and being with her on the yacht
                        for days together, I became fairly well acquainted with her, although she
                        maintained the reserve which she did not increase for a stranger or drop
                        even with her brother. You felt as if her personality were a large and
                        interesting house, with room after room worth seeing, most attractivebut
                        that no one ever was admitted beyond the drawing-room, not for a glimpse.
                    Don't picture her as of the somber sort of person. A real tragedy
                        can befall only a person with a highly sensitive nature. Such persons always
                        have sense of proportion and sense of humor. They do not exaggerate
                        themselves; they see the amusing side of the antics of the human animal. So
                        they do not pull long faces and swathe themselves in yards of crpe and try
                        to create an impression of dark and gloomy sorrow. They do not find woe a
                        luxury; they know it in its  grim horror. They
                        strive to get the joy out of life. So, looking at Mary Kirkwood, you would
                        never have suspected a secret of sadness, a blighted life. As her reserve
                        did not come from self-consciousnesseither the self-consciousness of
                        haughtiness or that of shyness and greennessyou did not even suspect reserve
                        until you had known her long and had tried in vain to get as well acquainted
                        with her as you thought you were at first. I imagine that in our talk in my
                        office about her husband I got further into the secret of her than anyone
                        else ever had.
                    One detail I shall put by itself, so important does it seem to me. She had a
                        keen sense of humor. It was not merely passive, merely appreciation, as the
                        sense of humor is apt to be in womenwhere it exists at all. It was also
                        active; she said droll and even witty things. When her sense of humor was
                        aroused, her eyes were bewitching.
                    What did she look like? The women all wish to know this; for, being fond of
                        the evanescent triumphs over the male which beauty of face or form gives,
                        and as a rule having experience only of those petty victories, they fancy
                        that looks are the important factor, the all-important factor. In fact, the
                        real conquests of women are not won by looks. Beauty, or, rather, physical
                        charm of some kind, is the lure that draws the desired male within range. If
                        after pausing a while he finds nothing more, he is off again.
                    Perhaps, probably, my experience with Edna has made me more indifferent to
                        looks than the average man who has never realized his longing to possess a
                        physically  beautiful woman. However that may
                        be, Mary Kirkwood certainly had no cause to complain that Nature had not
                        been generous to her in the matter of looks. She was tall, she was slender.
                        She had a delicate oval face, a skin that was clear and smooth and dark with
                        the much prized olive tints in it. She had a beautiful long neck, a great
                        quantity of almost black hair. Her nose suggested pride, her mouth mockery,
                        her eyes sincerity. She was the kind of woman who exercises a powerful
                        physical fascination over men, and at the same time makes them afraid to,
                        show their feelings. Women like that tantalize with visions of what they
                        could and would give the man they loved, but make each man feel that it
                        would be idle for him to hope. In character she was very different from her
                        cynical, mocking brotherwas, I imagine, more like her father. Mentally the
                        resemblance between the brother and sister was strongbut she took pains to
                        conceal how much she knew, where he found his chief pleasure in
                        "showing off." I feel I have fallen pitifully short of
                        doing her justice in this description. But who can put into words such a
                        subtlety as charm? She had itfor men. Women did not like hernor she them. I
                        state this without fear of prejudicing either women or men against her. Why
                        is it, by the way, that to say a man does not like men and is not liked by
                        them is to damn him utterly, while to say that a woman neither likes nor is
                        liked by her own sex is rather to speak in her favor? You cry indignantly,
                        "Not true!" gentle reader. Butdo you
                        know what is true and what not true? And, if you did, would you confess it,
                        even to yourself?
                    
                    You are proceeding to revenge yourself upon me. You are saying, "Now we know why he was indifferent to
                        his beautiful wife and to his lovely daughter! Now we
                        understand that fit of guilty conscience in London!"
                    Do you know? Perhaps. I am not sure. I am not conscious of any especial
                        interest in Mary Kirkwood until after I came back from London. I had seen
                        her but a few times. We had never talked so long as five consecutive
                        minutes, and then we had talked commonplaces. Not the commonplaces of
                        fashionable people, but the commonplaces of intelligent people.
                        There's an enormous difference.
                    The first time my memory records her with the vividness of moving pictures
                        is, of course, at that meeting in my office. The next time is a few days
                        after my return from London. I had been surfeited both in London and on the
                        steamer with the inane amateurs at life, the shallow elegant dabblers in it,
                        interesting themselves only in coaching, bridge, and similar pastimes worthy
                        an asylum for the feeble-minded. I went down to the Kirkwood place with
                        Armitage. As his sister was not in the house we set out for a walk through
                        the grounds to find her. At the outer edge of the gardens a workman told us
                        that if we would follow a path through the swampy woods we could not miss
                        her.
                    The path was the roughest kind of a trail. Our journey was beset with swarms
                        of insects, most of them mosquitoes in savage humor. It lay along the course
                        of a sluggish narrow stream that looked malarious and undoubtedly was.
                        "Landscape gardening is one of 
                        Mary's fads," explained her brother. "She has
                        been planning to tackle this swamp for several years. Now she is at
                        it."
                    In the depths of the morass we came upon her. She was in man's
                        clotheslaboring man's clothes. Her face and neck were protected by
                        veils, her hands by gloves. She was toiling away with a gang of men at
                        clearing the ground where the drains were to center in an artificial lake.
                        Armitage called several times before she heard. Then she dropped her ax and
                        came forward to meet us. There was certainly nothing of what is usually
                        regarded as feminine allure about her. Yet never had I seen a woman more
                        fascinating. There undoubtedly was charm in her face and in her strong,
                        slender figure. But I believe the real charm of charms for me was the
                        spectacle of a woman usefully employed. A woman actually doing something. A
                        woman!
                    After the greeting she said: "The only way I can get the men to work
                        in this pesthole is by working with them." She smiled merrily.
                        "One doesn't look so well as in a fresh tennis suit
                        wielding a racket. But I can't bear doing things that have no
                        results."
                    "My father insisted on bringing us up in the commonest way and with
                        the commonest tastes," said Armitage, "and Mary has
                        remained even less the lady than I am the gentleman."
                    As the mosquitoes were tearing us to pieces Mrs. Kirkwood ordered us back to
                        the house. Before we were out of sight she was leading on her gang and
                        wielding the ax again. At dinner she appeared in all the radiance and grace
                        of the beautiful woman with fondness for  and
                        taste in dress. She explained to me her planhow swamp and sluggish, rotting
                        brook were to be transformed into a wooded park with a swift, clear stream
                        and a succession of cascades. I may add, she carried out the plan, and the
                        results were even beyond what my imagination pictured as she talked.
                    This first view of her life in the country set me to observing her
                        closelyperhaps more closely and from a different standpoint than a man
                        usually observes a woman. In all she did I saw the same rare and fascinating
                        imaginationthe only kind of imagination worth while. Of all its stupidities
                        and follies none so completely convicts the human race of shallowness and
                        bad taste as its notions of what is romantic and idealistic. The more
                        elegant the human animal flatters itself it is, the poorer are its
                        idealsthat is, the further removed from the practical and the useful. So,
                        you rarely find a woman with so much true poetry, true romance, true
                        imagination as to keep house well. But Mary Kirkwood kept house as a truly
                        great artist paints a picture, as a truly great composer creates an opera.
                        In all her house there was not a trace of the crude, costly luxury that
                        rivals the squalor and bareness of poverty in repulsiveness to people of
                        sense and taste. But what comfort! What splendid cooking, what perfection of
                        service. The chairs and sofas, the beds, the linen, the hundred and one
                        small but important devices for facilitating the material side of life, and
                        so putting mind and spirit in the mood for their best But I despair of
                        making you realize. I should have to catalogue, describe, contrast through
                        page after page. And when I  had finished,
                        those who understand what the phrase art of living means would have read
                        only what they already know, while those who do not understand that phrase
                        would be convulsed with the cackling laughter that is the tribute of
                        mush-brain to intellect.
                    Observing Mary Kirkwood I discovered a great truth about the woman question:
                        the cruelest indictment of the intellect of woman is the crude, archaic,
                        futile, and unimaginative way in which is carried on the part of life that
                        is woman's peculiar workor, rather, is messed, muddled, slopped,
                        and neglected. No doubt this is not their fault. But it soon will be if they
                        don't bestir themselves. Already there are American men not a few
                        who apologize for having married as a folly of their green and silly youth.
                    So, gentle reader, though my enthusiasm tempts me to describe Mary
                        Kirkwood's housekeeping in detail, I shall spare you. You would not
                        read. You would not understand if you did.
                    The first time she and I approached the confidential was on an August evening
                        when we were alone on the upper deck of the yacht. The others were in the
                        cabin playing bridge. We had been sitting there perhaps an hour when she
                        rose.
                    "Don't go," said I.
                    "I thought you wished to be alone," said she.
                    "Why did you think that?"
                    "Your way of answering me. You've been almost
                        curt."
                    "I'm sorry. I can't promise to talk if you stay.
                        But I hate to be left alone with my thoughts."
                    
                    "I understand," said she. And she seated herself beside the
                        rail, and with my assistance lighted a cigarette.
                    There was a moon somewhere above the awning which gave us a roof. By the dim,
                        uncertain light I could make out her features. It seemed to me she was
                        staying as much on her own account as on minebecause she, too, wished not to
                        be alone with her thoughts. I had not in a long time seen her in a frankly
                        serious mood.
                    "How much better off a man is than a woman," said I.
                        "A man has his career to think about, while a woman usually has
                        only herself."
                    "Only herself," echoed she absently. "And if one
                        is able to think, oneself is an unsatisfactory subject."
                    "Extremely," said I. "Faults, follies,
                        failures."
                    For a time I watched the faintly glowing end of her cigarette and the slim
                        fingers that held it gracefully. Then she said:
                    "Do you believe in a future life?"
                    "Does anyone feel sure of any life but
                        this?"
                    "Then this is one's only chance to get what one
                        wantswhat's worth while."
                    "What is worth while?" I inquired,
                        feeling the charm of her quiet, sweet voice issuing upon the magical
                        stillness. "What is worth while?"
                    She laughed softly. "What one wants."
                    "And what do you want?"
                    She drew her white scarf closer about her bare shoulders, smiled queerly out
                        over the lazily rippling waters. "Love and children," she
                        said. "I'm a normal woman."
                    That amused me. "Normal? Why, you're unique  eccentric. Most women want moneyand yet more
                        moneyand yet more moneyfor more and more and always more show."
                    "You must want the same thing," retorted she.
                        "You're too sensible not to know you can't
                        possibly do any good to others with money. So you must want it for your own
                        selfish purposes. It's every bit as much for show when you have it
                        tucked away in large masses for people to gape at as if you were throwing it
                        round as the women do.... If anything, your passion is cruder than
                        theirs."
                    "I think I make money," said I, "for the same
                        reasons that a hen lays eggs or a cow gives milkbecause I can't
                        help it; because I can't do anything else and must do
                        something."
                    "Did you ever try to do anything else?"
                    "No," I admitted. Then I added, "I never had the
                        chance."
                    "True," she said reflectively. "A hen
                        can't give milk and a cow can't lay eggs."
                    "For some time," I went on, "I've been
                        trying to find something else to do. Something interesting. No, not exactly
                        that either. I must find some way of reviving my interest in life. The
                        things I am doing would be interesting enough if I could be interested in
                        anything at all. But I'm not."
                    She nodded slowly. "I'm in the same state," said
                        she. "I've about decided what to do."
                    "Yes?" said I encouragingly.
                    "Marry again," replied she.
                    I laughed outright. "That's very unoriginal," said
                             I. "It puts you in with the rest
                        of the women. Marrying is all they can think of
                        doing."
                    "But you don't quite understand," said she.
                        "I want children. I am thinking of selecting some trustworthy man
                        with good physical and mental qualities. I have had experience. I ought to
                        be able to judge and not being in love with him I shall not be so likely to
                        make a mistake. I shall marry, and the children will give me love and
                        occupation. You may laugh, but I tell you the only occupation worthy of a
                        man or a woman is bringing up children. All the restfor men as well as for
                        womenisis like a hen laying eggs to rot in the weeds.... Bringing up
                        children to develop us, to give us a chance to make them an improvement on
                        ourselves. That's the best."
                    As the full meaning of what she had said unfolded I was filled with
                        astonishment. How clear and simple how true. Why had I not seen this long
                        agowhy had it been necessary to have it pointed out by another? "I
                        believeyes, I'm surethat's what I've been groping
                        for," I said to her.
                    "I thought you'd understand," said she, and most
                        flattering was her tone of pleasure at my obvious admiration.
                    Thus our friendship was born.
                    I could not but envy her freedom to seek to satisfy the longing I thus
                        discovered in my own heart. So strongly did the mood for confidence possess
                        me that only my long and hard training in self-restraint held me from the
                        disloyalty of speaking my thoughts. I said:
                    
                    "It's dismal to grow old with no ties in the oncoming
                        generation. The sense of the utter futility of life would weigh more and
                        more heavily. I'm surprised that you've realized it so
                        young."
                    "A woman realizes it earlier than a man," she reminded me.
                        "For a woman has no career to interfere and prevent her seeing the
                        truth."
                    A woman! Rather, a rare occasional Mary Kirkwood. Most women never looked
                        beyond the gratification of the crudest, easiest vanities and appetites.
                        "Yes, you are right," I continued. "You ought to
                        marryas soon as you can. The man isn't important, except in the
                        ways you spoke of. So far as man and woman love is concerned, that quickly
                        passeswhere it ever exists at all. But the bond of father, mother, and
                        children is enduringat least, I'm sure you would
                        make it so."
                    We sat lost in thought for some timeI reflecting moodily upon my own baffled
                        and now seemingly hopeless longing, she probably busy with the ideas
                        suggested in her next speech.
                    "The main trouble is money," said she. "Except for
                        that my husband would have been all right. When we first met he did not know
                        my family had wealth. He thought I belonged to another and poor branch. And
                        I think he cared for me, and would have been the man I sought but for the
                        money. It roused a dormant side of his nature, and everything went to
                        pieces."
                    "Then, marry a rich man," I suggested.
                    She shook her head. "I don't know a single rich manexcept
                            possibly my brotherwho isn't obsessed about
                        money. The rich have a craving to be richer that's  worse than the desire of the poor to be
                        rich.... I don't know what to do. I couldn't bring up
                        children in the atmosphere of wealth and caste and showthe sort of
                        atmosphere a man or woman crazy about money insists on creating. My father
                        was right. He was a really wise man. I owe to him every good instinct and
                        good idea I have."
                    "But you must have seen some man who promised well. I think you can
                        trust to your judgment. You mustn't defeat your one chance for
                        happiness by over-caution."
                    Again she was silent for several minutes. Then she said, with a queer laugh
                        and an embarrassed movement: "I have seen such a manlately. I like
                        him. I think I could like him more than a little. I've an idea he
                        might care for me if I'd let him. ButI don't
                        know."
                    I saw that she longed to confide, but wished to be questioned. "Here
                        on the yacht?" said I.
                    She nodded.
                    "Beechman?"
                    She laughed shyly yet with amusement.
                    "That was an easy guess," said I. "He's
                        the only man of us free to marry."
                    "What do you think of him?"
                    "The very man I'd say," replied I.
                        "He's good to look atclever, healthy, and honest. He
                        isn't money mad. He could make quite a splurge with what he has,
                        yet he doesn't. He is a serious mandoes not let them tempt him into
                        fashionable society or any other kind."
                    "What are the objections?" said she. "My father
                             trained us to look for the rotten spots,
                        as he called them. He said one ought to hunt them out and examine them
                        carefully. Then if, in spite of them, the thing still looked good, why there
                        was a chance of its being worth taking."
                    "That's precisely my way of proceeding in
                        business," said I. "It's a pity it isn't
                        used in every part of lifefrom marketing up to choosing a friend or a
                        husband."
                    "Well, what are the 'rotten spots' in Mr.
                        Beechman?"
                    "I haven't looked for them," said I. "No
                        doubt they're there, but as they're not obvious they may
                        be unimportant."
                    "Can't you think of any?"
                    She was laughing, and so was I. Poor Beechman, down in the cabin absorbed in
                        bridge, how amazed he'd have been if he could have heard! In my
                        mind's eye I was looking him overa tall, fair man with good
                        smooth-shaven features.
                    "He's getting bald rather rapidly for a man of thirty or
                        thereabouts," said I.
                    "I don't like baldness," said she. "But I
                        can endure it."
                    "He is distinctly vain of his looks and his strength. But he has
                        cause to be."
                    "All men are physically vain," said she. "And they
                        can't help it, because it is the hereditary quality of the male
                        from fishes and reptiles up."
                    "He's inclined to be opinionated, and his point of view is
                        narrow."
                    
                    "I think I might hope to educate him out of that," said
                        she. "I can be tactful."
                    "It's certainly not a serious objection."
                    "Any other spots? "
                    "He has a certaina certainlack of vigor. It's a thing
                        I've observed in all professional men, except those of the first
                        rank, those who are really men of action."
                    She nodded. "I was waiting for that," said she.
                        "It's the thing that has made me hesitate." She
                        laughed outright. "What a conceited speech! But I'm
                        exposing myself fully to you."
                    "Why not? "said I.
                    "I am picking him to pieces as if I thought myself perfection. As a
                        matter of fact, I know he'd fly from me if he saw me as I
                        am." She reflected, laughed quietly. "But he never would
                        know me as I am. An unconventional womanif she's sensibleonly shows
                        enough of her variation from the pattern to make herself interestingnever
                        enough to be alarming."
                    "You are unconventional?"
                    "You didn't suspect it?"
                    "No. You smoke cigarettesbut that has ceased to be
                        unconventional."
                    "I rather thought you had a favorable opinion of my
                        intelligence," said she.
                    "So I have," said I. "To be perfectly frank, you
                        seemed to me to have as good a mind as your brother."
                    "That is flattering," said she, immensely pleased, and with
                        reason. "Well, if you thought so favorably  of my intelligence, how could you believe me
                        conventional?"
                    "I see," said I. "No one who thinks can be
                        conventional."
                    "Conventionality," said she, "was invented to save
                        some people the trouble of thinking and to prevent others from being
                        outrageous through trying to think when they've nothing to think
                        with."
                    "That is worth remembering and repeating," laughed I.
                        "Personally, I'm deeply grateful for conventionality. You
                        see, I came up from the bottom, and I find it satisfactory to be able to
                        refer to the rules in all the things I knew nothing about."
                    "My brother says the most remarkable thing about youand your wife Do
                        you mind my telling you?"
                    "Go on," said I.
                    "He says most people who come up are alternately hopeless barbarians
                        and hopelessly conventional, but that you took the right course. You learned
                        to be conventionallearned the rulesbefore you ventured to try to make
                        personal variations in them."
                    "I'm slow to risk variations," said I.
                        "Most of the efforts in that direction areeccentric. And I detest
                        eccentricity as much as I like originality."
                    "If Mr. Beechman were only a little less
                        conventional!"sighed she. "I'm afraid
                        he'd be rather" She hesitated.
                    "Tiresome?"I ventured to suggest.
                    "Tiresome," she assented. "Butthere would be the
                        children. Do you think he'd try to interfere with me
                        there?"
                    
                    "You'll never know that until you've married
                        him," said I.
                    "It's a pity he has an occupation that would keep him round
                        the house most of the time," said she. "That's a
                        trial to a woman. She's always being interrupted when she wishes to
                        be free."
                    "You mustn't expect too much," said I. "I
                        think the children will be yourchildren."
                    She did not reply in words. But a sudden strengthening of her expression made
                        me feel that I was getting a glimpse of her father.
                    We talked no more of Beechman or of any personalities related to this story.
                        When the bridge party broke up and a supper was served on deck, she and
                        Beechman sat togther. And I gathered from the sounds coming from their
                        direction that he was making progress. My spirits gradually oozed away and I
                        sat glumly pretending to listen while Mrs. Raphael talked to me. Usually she
                        interested me because she talked what she knew and knew things worth while.
                        But that night I heard scarcely a word she said. When the party, one by one,
                        began to go below, Mrs. Kirkwood joined me and found an opportunity to say,
                        aside:
                    "Won't you talk with Mr. Beechmanand tell me your honest
                        opinion? You know I can't afford to make another mistake. And
                        I'm in earnest."
                    I stood silent, smoking and staring out toward the dim Connecticut shore.
                    "It wouldn't be unfair to him," she urged.
                        "You're not especially his friend. I can't ask
                        anyone else, and I believe in your judgment."
                    
                    "If I advised you, I'd be taking a heavy
                        responsibility," said I.
                    "I'm not that kindyou know I'm not,"
                        replied she. "I don't ask advice, to have some one to
                        blame if things go wrong. Of course, if there's a reason why you
                        can't very well help me Maybe you already know something against
                        him?something you've no right to tell?"
                    "Nothing," said I, emphatically. "And I
                        don't believe there is anything against him." Then, on an
                        impulse of fairness and to wipe out the suspicion of Beechman I had
                        unwittingly created, I said: "Really, there's no reason
                        why I shouldn't size him up and give you my opinion. I'll
                        do my best."
                    She thanked me with a fine lighting up of the eyes. And the warm friendly
                        pressure of her hand lingered after she had long been below and was no doubt
                        asleep.
                    What was my reason for hesitating? You have guessed it, but you think I do
                        not intend to admit. You are deceived there. I admit frankly. I felt unable
                        to advise her because I found that I was in love with her, myself. Yes, I
                        was in love, and for the first time in my life. The latest time of falling
                        in love is always the first. As we become older and more experienced, better
                        acquainted with the world, with ourselves, with what we want and do not
                        wantin a word, as we grow, the meaning of love grows. And
                        each time we love, we see, as we look back over the previous times, that
                        what we thought was love was in fact simply educational.
                    
                    So, when I say I had never loved until I loved Mary Kirkwood, I am speaking a
                        truth which is worth thinking about. I had reached the age, the stage of
                        physical and mental development, at which a man's capacities are at
                        their largestat which I could give love and could appreciate love that was
                        given to me. And I, who could not ask or hope love from her, gave her all
                        the love I had to give. Gave because I could not help giving. Who, seeing
                        the best, can help wanting it?
                    But for my promise to her I should have left the yacht early the following
                        morning. As it was I stayed on, with my mind made up to keep my word. Did I
                        stay because of my promise? Did I stay because I loved her? I do not know.
                        Who can fathom the real motive in such a situation as that? I can only say
                        that I sought Beechman's society and did my best to take his
                        measure. It had been so long my habit to judge men without regard to my
                        personal feeling about them that, perhaps in spite of myself, I saw this man
                        as he was, not as I should have liked him to be. I found that I had
                        underestimated him. I had been prejudiced by his taking himself too
                        seriouslya form of vanity which I happen particularly to detest. Also his
                        sense of humor was different from minea fact that had misled me into
                        thinking he had no sense of humor. I had thoughtshall I say hoped?that I
                        would find him a man she could respect but could not love. I was forced to
                        abandon this idea. So far as a man can judge another for a woman, he could
                        succeed with almost any heart-free woman. I wondered that Mary Kirkwood
                        should be uncertain about him. I might have drawn  comfort from her having done so, had I not known how she
                        dreaded making a second mistake.
                    That day and the next, when I was not with him, she was. I shan't
                        attempt to tell my emotions. That sort of thing seems absurd to all the
                        world but the one who is suffering. Besides, the fact that I was a married
                        man would alienate the sympathies of all respectable readers. Not that I am
                        yearning for sympathy. Those who have read thus far may have possibly
                        gathered that I am not one of those who live on sympathy and wither and die
                        without it. The only sympathy human beings seem able to give one another, I
                        have discovered, is a species of self-complacent pity; and while it may not
                        be exactly a stone, it is certainly a most inferior quality of bread.
                    The third morning I sought her out. She made a picture of strong, slim young
                        womanhood to cause the heartat least, my heartto ache, as she leaned against
                        the rail in her blue-trimmed white linen dress showing her lovely throat.
                        Said I, avoiding her eyes:
                    "I'm off for the shore, and I wish to report before
                        leaving."
                    "Ashore!" she cried. "Why, you were to have gone
                        on to Bar Harbor and back again."
                    "Businessalways business."
                    "I'm disappointed," said she, and I saw with a
                        furtive glance that her face had quite lost its brightness.
                    "I'm glad of that, at least," said I with a
                        successful enough attempt at lightness; for, as I have never been the sort
                        of man in whom women expect to find sentimentalism, signs of embarrassment
                        or other agitation  would be attributed to any
                        other source before the heart.
                    "I've lost interest in the trip," she declared.
                    I forced a smile. "Beechman isn't going."
                    "Oh, that's different," said she, with a certain
                        frank impatience." "You're the one person I can
                        really talk to... Can't you stay?"
                    I did not let my face betray me. I waited before speaking until I was sure of
                        my voice. "Impossible," I said, perhaps rather curtlyfor,
                        mind you, I wished to deal honestly with her, and was not trying to hint my
                        love while pretending to hide it. I know there is a notion that love cannot
                        be controlled. But the kind of love that can't be controlled is a
                        selfish, greedy appetite and not love at all. When the man doesn't
                        control his love the woman may be sure he is thinking of himself only, of
                        her merely as a possible means of pleasureis thinking of her as the hungry
                        hunter thinks of the fine fat rabbit. Said I:
                    "Now for my report on Beechman."
                    But she would not let me escape. "Why are you short with
                        me?" she asked. "Have I offended you?"
                    "No, indeed," said I." "You've
                        been everything that's kind and friendly."
                    "The very idea of losing your friendship frightens me," she
                        went on." "I've a feeling for youa feeling ofof
                        intimacy"she flushed rosily" "that I have for no
                        one else in the world. Oh, I don't expect you to return it. No
                        doubt I seem insignificant to you. Almost anyone would want your friendship.
                        You are sure you aren't leaving because you are bored?"
                    
                    "Absolutely sure. If I could explain my reason for going you would
                        see that I must. But I can't explain. So you'll be glad to
                        hear that I find Beechman even more of a man than I thought."
                    She looked at me apologetically. "You'll think me foolish,
                        but since I've begun to try to like him better I've
                        beenalmostnot liking him."
                    I am sure I beamed with delight. For, there are limitsvery narrow onesto
                        unselfishness in the most considerate love. And I am not able to pose as
                        more than feebly unselfish. "That isn't fair to
                        him," I said, with more enthusiasm in my words than in my tone.
                    "I've been judging him as carefully as I know how, and I
                        must in honesty say he is a rare man. You'll not find many like
                        him."
                    "Don't tell me he's worthy," she cried,
                        "or I shall loathe him."
                    "And he cares for you," I said.
                    "Did he tell you so?"
                    "I think he would have if I had encouraged him... I liked the way he
                        spoke of you, and" I hesitated, could not hold back the words
                        "and I am not easy to please there." Those words were
                        certainly far from confession, were the mildest form of indiscretion. Still,
                        so determined was I to be square, and so guilty did I feel, that they
                        sounded like a contemptible attempt stealthily to make love to her.
                    "Thank you," she said gently. And her suddenly swimming
                        eyes and tender voice reminded me how alone she was and how bitter her
                        experience had been and how she deserved happiness.
                    
                    I felt ashamed of myself. "I hope you will be happy," I
                        said, perhaps rather huskily. "Anyone who tried to prevent it would
                        deserve to be killed."
                    She looked at me with such a steady, penetrating gaze that I feared I had
                        betrayed myself. In fact, I knew I had. I glanced at my watch, put out my
                        hand. "I hate to go," I said, in the tone of one man to
                        another. "But I must." And as we shook hands, I repeated,
                        "I know you will be happy."
                    She laughed nervously; she, too, had become ill at ease. "You make
                        me feel engaged," she said with an attempt at mockery.
                    As the launch touched the shore I looked back. She was leaning on the rail,
                        Beechman beside her. He was talking, but I felt sure she was not listening.
                        As I looked she waved her hand. I lifted my hat and hurried away. And I
                        learned the meaning of that word desolation.
                    Do not think, because I have not raved, talked of the moon and stars,
                        poetized about my soul states, that therefore I did not love her. The
                        banquet of life spread so richly for me seemed a ghastly mockery. What shall
                        it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul? I had lost
                        my soul. I had discovered how I might have been happy, and at the same time
                        I had discovered that it could never benever. And always before me she stood
                        in her radiant youthintelligent, so capable, splendidly sincerethe woman I
                        loved, the woman I felt I could have made love me.
                    There was my temptationthe feeling, the conviction  that I could win her love. She had confessed to a friendship
                        for me different from any she had for anyone else in the world. If I were
                        willing to take advantage of her trust, of her liking, of her longing for
                        love and of my knowledge of itif I were to let her see how utterly I loved
                        herI could surely win her. There were times when I said to myself:
                        "Youeven as you arecan make her happier than anyone else could. She
                        would prefer what you can give her to what she will get from Beechman. Your
                        love gives you the right to make her happy. You are letting foolish
                        conventional notions blind you to what is really right. If you had acted in
                        business in that fashion, you would not have got far. Yet in the supreme
                        crisis of your life you let yourself be frightened off by a bogy of
                        conventional morality."
                    Perhaps I was giving myself sound advice there. I do not know. I only know
                        that I put the temptation behind me and went to work. The sentimental
                        readers will not forgive me. So be it. I am a plain man, rather
                        old-fashionedprim, I believe it is calledin my ideas, not at all the
                        ladies' man. And I did not want to harm her. I loved her.
                    I went to work. The sort of people who are ever on the lookout for some
                        excuse for going to pieces, and the world is well sprinkled with them,
                        eagerly seize on disappointment in love as precisely what they were seeking.
                        At the risk of being thought cold and hard, I will say that it is extremely
                        fortunate for Joan that she escaped the Darby who goes smash for
                        disappointed love of her. If Joan had yielded to him, Darby  would simply have been put to the trouble of
                        finding another pretext for throwing up his job and taking to drink. I
                        confess it did not occur to me to give up and fall to boozing and brooding.
                        I should not have dared do that; for, you see, I was really in lovenot with
                        myself, but with Mary Kirkwood. I went to work. I filled my days and my
                        evenings with business engagements that compelled both my time and my
                        thought. I took on an extra secretary. I started to build a railway. I laid
                        out an addition to the manufacturing city I had founded. I organized a farm
                        for teaching city slum boys to be farmers. I engaged in several entirely new
                        mining and manufacturing enterprises. The result was that when I went to
                        bed, I slept; and when they awakened me in the morning my brain was at work
                        before my head was well off the pillow. And stillYou can distract your mind
                        from the aching tooth, but it aches on.
                    All this time I was receiving weekly letters from Edna and Margotlong and
                        loving letters. I read them, and you may possibly imagine I was filled with
                        shame and remorse. Not at all. My wife and my daughter had rather
                        exaggerated my vanity. Only vanity could gull a husband and father in my
                        position into fancying himself the object of such luxuriant affection as
                        those letters professed. If you have lies to tell, take my advice and
                        don't write them. I can't explain the
                        mystery, but a lie which, spoken and heard, passes out and passes in as
                        smoothly as a greased shuttle in its greased groove, becomes a glaring
                        falsehood: when set down in black and white. The only effect of  those letters upon me was to make my sick
                        heart the sadder with the realization of what I had missed in losing Mary
                        Kirkwood.
                    And I kept wondering what it was that Edna and Margot were slathering me for.
                    In September I got the key to the mystery. The necessity of floating some
                        bonds took me abroad again. I found my family ensconced in beautiful luxury
                        in an apartment in Paris. You drove out the Champs Elyses. Not far from the
                        President's palace you drove in at great doorsnot gates, but
                        doorsin a plain, unpretentious-looking house wall. You were in a superb
                        garden of whose existence you had no hint from the street. Magnificent
                        bronze inner doorspowdered and velveted lackeysa majestic stairway leading
                        to lofty and gorgeous corridors and salons. Really my wife, with the aid of
                        those clever European professors of the aristocratic art, had educated
                        herself amazingly. On every side there were evidences of her good taste in
                        furniture, in tapestries, in wall coverings, in pictures. It was not the
                        taste of a home maker, but it was unquestionably good taste. It was not the
                        sort of taste I liked, but not to admire it would have been to lack the
                        sense of harmony in line and color. And let me add in justice to her, it was
                        her own taste. There is no mistaking the difference between the luxury that
                        is merely bought and the luxury that is created.
                    I submitted with what grace I could muster to the exuberant hypocrisies of
                        that greeting. But I got to  business with all
                        speed. "In the note I found in London you said you had a surprise
                        for me," I said to Edna. "What is it?"
                    "How impatient you are," laughed she. "Just like a
                        child."
                    Whether because the fashions of the day happened to be peculiarly becoming or
                        because she had actually improved, she now had the loveliness more exquisite
                        than I had ever seen in woman. No doubt her piquant face had charm for most
                        people; for me it had none whatever. I knew too well what lay beneathor,
                        rather, what was not there, for like most human beings her defects of
                        character were not so much the presence of the vices as the lack of the
                        virtues.
                    "I've been waiting for that surprise several
                        months," said I. "Your letters and Margot's
                        showed that some shock was coming."
                    "Shock? No, indeed!" And she and Margot laughed gayly.
                        "It isn't altogether a surprise," she went on.
                        "Can't you guess?"
                    I looked at Margot. "Ah!" I said. "Margot is
                        engaged."
                    Margot ran across the room and kissed me. "Oh, I'm so happy, papa!" she cried.
                    "Is it the duke?" I asked.
                    She made a wry face. "He was horrid!" she said. "I
                        couldn't endure him."
                    "So you had to fall back on the marquis?"
                    Neither of the women liked this way of putting the matter. It suggested that
                        I knew the painful truth of the failure of the ducal campaign. But they were
                        not  to be put out of humor. "You
                        liked him yourself, papa," said Margot.
                    I was abstractedly thinking how I had no sense of her being my daughter or of
                        Edna being my wife. You would say that after all we three had been through
                        together, from Passaic up, it would be a sheer impossibility for there ever
                        to be a sense of strangeness between us. But there is no limit to the power
                        of the human soul to cut itself off; intimacy is hard to maintain,
                        isolationalasis the natural state. I looked on them as strangers; I could
                        feel that, in spite of their clever, resolute forcing, in spite of the
                        hypocrisy of love for me which each doubtless maintained at all times with
                        the other, still they could scarcely hide their feeling that I was a strange
                        man come in from the street.
                    "Yes, I liked Crossley," said I. "I think
                        he'll make you a good husband."
                    "He is mad about her!" said Edna.
                        "There was a while this summer when he thought he had lost her, and
                        he all but went out of his mind."
                    To look at her was to believe it; for, a lovelier girl was never displayed in
                        all her physical perfection by a more discriminating mother.
                    "When is the wedding to be?" said I.
                    There was a brief, surcharged silenceno more than a pause. Then Edna said
                        indifferently, "As soon as the settlements are arranged."
                    "Ohis he settling something on her?" said I, with pretended
                        innocence. "I'm glad of that. There's, been too
                        much of the other sort of thing."
                    
                    Margot came to the rescue with a charming laugh. "Poor
                        Hugh!" she said. "He hasn't anything but
                        mortgages."
                    "UmI see," said I glumlyand I observed intense anxiety
                        behind the smiles in those two pairs of beautiful eyes. "How much
                        have we got to pay for him?"
                    Edna looked reproachfully at me. "Margot," said she,
                        "you'd better go tell them to serve lunch in fifteen
                        minutes."
                    "Nonsense," said I cheerfully. "Let her stay.
                        What's the use of this hypocrisy? She knows he cares no more about
                        her than she cares about himthat it's simply a matter of buying and
                        selling. If she doesn't know it, if she's letting her
                        vanity bamboozle her"
                    "Godfreyplease!" implored Edna." Don't
                        smirch the child's romance. She and Hugh love each other. If she
                        were poor, he'd marry her just the same."
                    "Has he offered to go ahead, regardless of settlements?" I
                        asked.
                    "Of course not, papa," flashed Margot. "Things
                        aren't done that way over here."
                    "Oh, yes, they are," replied I. "Romantic love
                        matches occur every day. Even royalty throws up its rights, to marry a
                        chorus girl. But when there's a fat American goose to pluck and
                        eat, why, they pluck and eat it. I'm the goose, my dearnot
                        you."
                    "You don't understand," murmured Margot.
                    "I wish I didn't," said I. "And I wish
                        you didn't have to understand. If possible I want to arrange  matters with him so that he'll
                        always treat you decently."
                    "But, Godfrey," cried Edna in a panic, "you
                        can't talk money to him."
                    "Why not?" said I. "He's thinking money.
                    Why shouldn't he talk it?"
                    "He knows nothing about those things, papa" I laughed.
                    "You'll ruin everything!" cried my wife.
                        "You'll make us the laughingstock of Europe!"
                    "We Americans of the rich class are that already," replied
                        I.
                    Edna must have given her daughter some secret signal, for she abruptly and
                        hastily left the room, closing the door behind her. I shrugged my shoulders,
                        settled back on the exquisitely upholstered and carved sofa on which I had
                        seated myself. Looking round I said, "This is a beautiful room.
                        You've certainly arranged a fitting background for yourself and
                        Margot."
                    But she was not listening. She was watching her fingers slowly twist and
                        untwist the delicate little lace handkerchief. At last she said:
                        "Godfrey, I've never asked a favor of you. I've
                        given my whole life to advancing your intereststo making our child a perfect
                        ladyand to placing her in a dazzling position."
                    "Yes," said I. "You have worked hardand
                        you've made your tricks."
                    "I've played my hand wellas you have yours," said
                        she, accepting my rather unrefined figure with good grace. "I began
                        to make Margot's career before she was born. The first time I saw
                        her little face, I  murmured to myself,
                        'Little Duchess.' Now, you understand why I brought her up
                        so carefully."
                    "Oh," said I, looking at her with new interest.
                    "That was it?" I who knew what a futile, purposeless,
                        easily discouraged breed the human race is could not but admire this woman.
                        If her intelligence had only been equal to her will, what might she not have
                        accomplished!
                    "I have never lost sight of it for a moment," said she.
                        "In the early daysfor a timewhen we were seemingly so hopelessly
                        obscure, and I was too ignorant to learn which way to turnfor a while I was
                        discouraged. But I never gave upnever! And step by step I've
                        trained her for the grand position as a leader of European society she was
                        one day to occupyfor, I knew that if she led Europe she would be leader at
                        home, too. Over there they're merely a feeble, crude echo of
                        Europe."
                    "Socially," said I.
                    "That's all we're talking about," replied
                        she.
                    "That's all there is worth talking about. What else have
                        you been piling up money for?... What else?"
                    I could think of no reply. I was silent. What else, indeed?
                    "I kept her away from other children," Edna went on.
                        "After she could talk I never trusted her to nurses until we could
                        afford fashionable servants. I got her the right sort of governessesso that
                        she should speak French, Italian, and German, and should have a well-bred
                        English accent for her own language. I even trained her in the
                        children's stories she readhad her 
                        read only the fairy tales and the other stories that would fill her mind
                        with ideas of nobility and titles and the high things of life."
                    "The high things of life," said I.
                    She made an impressive gestureshe looked like a beautiful young empress.
                        "Let's not cant," said she. "Those are the high things of life. Ask any person you meet in
                        Americayoung or old, high or lowask him which he'd rather bea
                        prince, duke, marquis, or a saint, scientist, statesman. What would he
                        answer?"
                    I laughed. "That he'd rather be a millionaire,"
                        said I.
                    "A millionaire with a titlewith established social position at the
                        very topthat couldn't be taken away. That's the truth,
                        Godfrey."
                    "I'll not contradict you," said I.
                    "And," she went on, "I've brought up our
                        daughter so that she could realize the highest ambition within our reach.
                        Haven't I brought her up well?"
                    "Perfectly, for the purpose," said I.
                    "When we came over here, I examined the ground carefully. I was at
                        first inclined to one of the big Continental titles. They are much older,
                        much more high sounding than the English titlesand so far as birth goes they
                        mean something, while the English titles mean really nothing at all. The
                        English aristocracy isn't an aristocracy of birth."
                    "That's, no doubt, the reason why it still has some say in
                        affairs," said I.
                    "Its talk about birth is almost entirely sham," proceeded
                             she, not interested in my irrelevant
                        comment. "But I found that it was the most substantial aristocracy,
                        the only one that was respected everywhere, just as the English money
                        circulates everywhere. And it's the only one that makes much of an
                        impression at home. We are so ignorant that we think England is all that it
                        pretends to bethe powerful part of Europe. Of course, it isn't,
                        butno matter. I decided for an English title."
                    "And Margot?"
                    "I have brought her up to respect my judgment," said Edna.
                    "I wonder what will become of her," said I, reflectively,
                        "when she hasn't you at her elbow to tell her what to
                        do... But why a marquis? Why not a duke?"
                    She smiled, blushed a little. "The only duke we could have gotand he
                        was a nice young fellowbut he was in love with an English girl of wealthand
                        he wanted too much to change to an American. Is that frank enough to suit
                        you?"
                    "If you'd only keep to that key," said I.
                    "He wanted double the American dowry that he was willing to take
                        with an English girl."
                    "His being in love with another girl might have made it unpleasant
                        for Margot," I suggested.
                    "That wouldn't have amounted to anything," replied
                        she. "Over here the right sort of people bring up their children as
                        I brought up Margotto give their hearts where their hands should go. They
                        are not shallow and selfish. They think of the family dignity  and honor before they think of their personal
                        feelings."
                    "That's interestingand newat least to me," said I.
                    "You have been judging these things without knowing,
                        Godfrey," said she. "You have attacked me for narrowness,
                        when in fact you were the narrow one."
                    "Yes? What next?" said I.
                    "I found that the Massingfordsthat's the family name of the
                        Marquis of CrossleyI found they ranked higher as a family than any of the
                        ducal families except one. Of course. I don't include the royal
                        dukes."
                    "Of course not," said I gravely.
                    "I might possibly have got one of the royal dukes if not in England,
                        then here on the Continent. But I decided You see, Godfrey, I looked into
                        everything."
                    "You certainly have been thorough," said I. "I
                        should have said it was impossible in so short a time."
                    "But it wasn't difficult. All the Americans over here are
                        well informed about these things."
                    "I can readily believe it," said I. "But why did
                        you turn down the poor royal dukes?"
                    "Because the other women would have made it dreadfully uncomfortable
                        for Margot. They'd have hated her for taking precedence over them
                        by such a long distance. Then, toothe dowry. I was afraid you
                        couldn't afford the dowryor wouldn't think the title worth
                        the money. Indeed, I didn't think so, myself."
                    "A royal duke comes high?"
                    
                    "The least dowry would be seventy-five million francs."
                    "Fifteen million dollars!" I exclaimed.
                        "Whew!"
                    "Mrs. Sinkers tried to get one for her daughter for ten millionsall
                        she could scrape together. They agreed to a morganatic marriage for that,
                        but not a full marriage. So, she and poor Martha gave it up.
                        Martha's heart is broken. The duke made love to her so wonderfully.
                        I can't imagine what Mrs. Sinkers was about, to allow such a thing
                        before the affair was settled. Poor Martha was so excited that she would
                        have accepted the morganatic marriageshe ranking merely as the
                        duke's head mistress. But while he was willing to take other
                        mistresses for nothing, and even to pay them, he wouldn't take her for less than fifty million francs."
                    "Poor Martha!" said I.
                    "I was too wise to trifle with royal dukes," pursued Edna,
                        so interested in her own narrative and so eager to show how sagacious she
                        had been that she forgot her pose and her doubts as to my
                        sympathies. "I weighed the advantages and disadvantages of about a
                        dozen eligible men. Only three stood the test, and it finally narrowed down
                        to Crossley. Margot was so happy when I told her. She
                        wanted to love himand now she is loving him."
                    A long pause while Edna calmed down to earth from her European soarings, and
                        while I, too, returned to the normal from an excursion in the opposite
                        direction. "How much does he want?" said I.
                        "Let's get to bed rock."
                    
                    "He loves her so that he is willing, so I hear Of course, nothing
                        has been said You will not believe how refined and"
                    "How much?"Interrupted I.
                    Edna winced at my rudeness, then again presented an unruffled front of happy
                        loving serenity. "Enough to payoff the mortgages and to provide
                        them with a suitable income."
                    "How much?" I persisted, laughing.
                    She looked tenderly remonstrant. "I don't know,
                        Godfrey"
                    "You know about how much. What's the
                        figurethe price of this marked down marquis?"
                    "I should say the whole thing would not cost more than three or four
                        million dollars."
                    "Threeor four." I laughed aloud. "Not much
                        difference there. Now which is itthree or four?"
                    "Perhaps nearer four. Margot must have a good
                        income."
                    "To be sure," said I.
                    "The whole object would be defeated if she hadn't the
                        means"
                    "The money," I suggested. "Why use these evasive
                        words? We're talking a plain subject. Let's use its
                        language."
                    "The money, then," acquiesced she, resolutely good-humored.
                        "If she hadn't the money to make a proper
                        appearance."
                    "Naturally, to lead in society you must lead in spending money...
                        Wellit can't be done."
                    She paled, half started from her chair, sank back  again. There was a long silence. Then she said, "You
                        have never been cruel, Godfrey. You won't be cruel now. You
                        won't destroy my life work. You won't shatter
                        Margot's happiness."
                    "The whole thing isis nauseating to me," said I. Her short,
                        pretty upper lip quivered. Her eyes filled. "If you didn't
                        approve, dear, why didn't you stop me long ago? Why did you let me
                        go on until there was no turning back?"
                    I was silent. There seemed to be no answer to that. "Did you do it
                        purposely, Godfrey?" said she, with melancholy eyes upon me.
                        "Did you lure us on, so that you could crush us at one
                        stroke?"
                    I was silent.
                    "I can't believe that of you. I won't believe it
                        until you compel me to."
                    "As I understand it," said I, "you propose that I
                        hand over to this young man four million"
                    "Only about half of it, Godfrey," cried she, reviving.
                        "The other half would be Margot'sfor her own
                        income."
                    "Then that I hand over to this amiable, insignificant young
                        foreigner two million dollars to induce him to consent to the degradation of
                        marrying my daughterto have him going about, saying in effect, 'It
                        is true, she is only one of those low Americans, but don't forget
                        that I got two million dollars for stooping.' Is that the
                        proposition?"
                    "You know it isn't!" cried she. "He
                        doesn't feel that he is degrading himself. He feels proud of
                        winning herthe most beautiful, the best mannered girl in London.
                    
                    But it'd be simply impossible for them to marry without the money.
                            I shouldn't want it. They would be wretched.
                        You talk like a sentimental schoolboy, Godfrey. How could two refined,
                        sensitive people such as Hugh and Margot, used to every luxury, used to
                        being foremost in societyhow could they be happy without the means"
                    "The money," I corrected blandly.
                    "Without the money needed to maintain their position as marquis and
                        marchioness of Crossley?"
                    I nodded assent.
                    "He has only about five thousandtwenty-five thousand of our moneya
                        year. That is ridiculous for a marquis. He has to keep all his houses closed
                        and run as economically as possible. Even then they cost him nearly
                        seventy-five thousand dollars a year to maintain."
                    "And he has only twenty-five thousand!"
                    "I meant twenty-five thousand over and above. He has that to live
                        on. And, poor fellow, he is dropping every year deeper and deeper into debt.
                        So much is expected of a marquis."
                    "But not honesty, apparently," said I.
                    "You mustn't judge these people by our commercial
                        standards," she gently rebuked.
                    "I forgot," said I penitently.
                    "And the poor fellow does love Margot so!"
                    "Um," said I. "Have you ever happened to hear of a
                        Miss TownleyJ upey Townley?"
                    A flash of annoyance flitted over Edna's lovely, delicate
                        countenance.
                    
                    "I see you have," said I. "You were, indeed,
                        thorough. Permit me to compliment you, my dear."
                    "I am glad Hugh hasn't been a saint."
                    "Isn't," said I.
                    "That's all in the past," declared she.
                    "I saw them in a box at a London music hall night before
                        last," said I. "They were They had been
                        drinking."
                    But Edna was not daunted. "You are a man of the world, Godfrey.
                        Don't pretend to be narrow."
                    "When a man loves a woman"
                    "Love is very different from that sort of thing, and you know
                        it."
                    "Has Margot heard"
                    "Godfrey!" cried Edna, in horror. "Do you think I
                        would permit my daughterour daughterto
                        know such things! Why, her mind is as pure"
                    I could not restrain a gesture of disgust. "You women!" I
                        cried, rising. "Pure! Pure-God in Heaven, pure!"
                    Her look of dazed astonishment, obviously sincere, helped me to get back my
                        composure. I sat down again. "I beg your pardon," I said.
                        "I didn't mean to interrupt."
                    "Even if you men have no purity yourselves, you ought to believe in
                        it in women," said she, with an injured air.
                    "Yes, indeed," I agreed heartily. "I congratulate
                        you on being able to make such generous allowances for masculine
                        frailty."
                    "You are sarcastic," said she coldly.
                    
                    "No matter. It certainly does not damage the titleperhaps adds to
                        its luster."
                    "It's hereditary in their family to be wild up to marriage,
                        and then to settle down and serve the state in some distinguished
                        position."
                    "Ohin that case" said I ironically.
                    "Margot and her husband and her children will have your money some
                        day," pursued she. "Why not give it to her now, when it
                        will get her happiness?"
                    That impressed me. "I have not said I would not consent to this
                        marriage," I reminded her. "As a matter of fact,
                        I'm in favor of it. I can see no future for Margot in
                        America"
                    "No, indeed," cried Edna eagerly. "She simply
                        couldn't marry over there. She'd be wretched."
                    "But I feel it is my duty Rather late in the day for me to talk
                        about duty toward my daughter, after neglecting it all these years. Still, I
                        ought to see to it that she has the best possible chance for a smooth
                        married life. It's only common prudence to take all
                        precautionsisn't it?"
                    "All sensible precautions," said she.
                    "You know how many of these foreign 'alliances,'
                        as they're called, have turned out badly."
                    "They get a good many divorces in the states," she
                        suggested smilingly. "One to every twelve marriages, I read the
                        other day."
                    I admitted that she had made an effective retort. "The truth
                        is," said I, "American women aren't brought up
                        for domestic life. So, whether they marry at home or abroad they have
                        trouble"
                    
                    "Men resent their independence," said Edna.
                    "It may be so," said I. Of what use to point out to her
                        that the trouble lay in the women's demanding to be supported and
                        refusing to do anything to earn their support? All I said was: "I
                        suspect a good many husbands think the marriage contract too
                        one-sidedbinding only them and not their wives. But the trouble with the
                        'alliances' can't be that."
                    "It's because Europeans look on the wife as a kind of head
                        servant. But Hugh isn't that sort."
                    "We'll know more as to that when we hear what Margot says
                        after she's been married a few years," said I.
                        "The point to settle now is how to bind him to good behavior so far
                        as it can be done in advance. He may be deeply in love with Margot. He may
                        stay in love with her. But in the circumstances it's wise to assume
                        that he wants only her money and that, if he gets it, he'll treat
                        her badly."
                    My wife's silence was encouraging.
                    "If he had plenty of money he might even goad her into releasing
                        himand might marry again."
                    My wife was obviously impressed. "Yesthat has been done,"
                        said she. "Of course, if Margot should have an heir right away.
                        But"
                    She looked at me as if trying to decide whether she could trust me with a
                        confidence. She evidently decided in my favor, for she went on to say:
                    "On the other handMargot is a peculiar girl. Nomany women have the
                        same peculiarity. They can't be trusted with power over their
                        husbands. If she had all the money in her own name and he were  dependent on her Godfrey, I'm sure
                        there'd be trouble."
                    Once more she was astonishing me with her clear judgment in matters as to
                        which I should have thought her hopelessly prejudiced. "But I can be trusted," said I. "The plan I
                        had in mind was to take over the mortgages and guarantee a sufficient
                        income."
                    She shook her head. "He won't consent," said she.
                        "His solicitors will insist on better terms than that."
                    "Now you see why I want to talk to him directly. I don't
                        purpose to be hampered by that old trick of the principal hidden behind a
                        go-between."
                    "There's no other way," said Edna.
                        "They're too clever to yield that."
                    "He needs money badly."
                    "But he won't marry unless he's actually to get
                        it," replied she. "Almost every American who has married a
                        daughter over here has tried to make a business bargainat least, a bargain
                        not altogether one-sided. Not one of them has succeeded. These Europeans
                        have been handling the dowry and settlement question too many
                        centuries."
                    "I see," said I affably. "If we want what
                        they've got, we have to take it on their terms."
                    It was most satisfactory, talking with her now that she consented to speak
                        and listen to good sense. I was at once in a more amiable frame of mind,
                        although I knew she had descended from her high horse only because she was
                        shrewd enough to see it was the one way to get me to do as she wished.
                    "I will hide behind a go-between myself," said I.
                    
                    "Any English lawyer would simply play into the hands of the other
                        side. At least, so Hilda was telling me."
                    "Is she happy?"
                    "Very."
                    "When's her husband coming back?"
                    "Not for a year or so, I believe. Lord Blankenship cares more for
                        big game and for exploring than for anything else."
                    "An ideal marriage," said I. "She brought him the
                        money he wanted. He brought her the title she wanted. And they
                        don't annoy each other. He devotes himself to sport, she to
                        society. These aristocratic people, with their simple, vulgar wants that are
                        so easily gratifiedhow they are to be envied!"
                    Edna was observing me furtively, uneasily. I pretended not to notice. I went
                        on: "Now, if they wanted the difficult thingsthings like love and
                        companionship and congenialitythey might be wretched. When a child cries for
                        a stick of candy or a tinsel-covered rattle for money or social positionwhy,
                        it's easily pacified. But if it cries for the moon and the
                        stars" I laughed softly, enjoying her wonder as much as my own
                        fancies.
                    After a while she said, with some constraint : "You see a great deal
                        of Armitage?"
                    "We console each other," said I, with mild raillery.
                        "Have you been going out much?"
                    "I'm very busy."
                    "In one of your letters Those rare little notes of yours! You are
                        cruelly neglectful, Godfrey In one  of them
                        you spoke of a week end or so on Armitage's yacht. You and he
                        don't go off alone?"
                    "Oh, no. Some literary and artistic people usually are
                        aboard."
                    "I didn't know you cared for that sort."
                    "They're interesting enough."
                    "I suppose they're friends of Mrs.
                        Kirkwood's," pursued Edna. "She's like
                        her brotheraffects to despise fashionable society. Their pretenses always
                        amused me."
                    "They are sincere people," said I. "They
                        don't pretend. That's why I like them."
                    "I notice that Armitage belongs to every fashionable club in New
                        Yorkand to some over here," said Edna with a smile that was as
                        shrewd as her observation."Also, that he manages to find time to
                        appear at the most exclusive parties during the season."
                    I had observed this same peculiarity. While I refused to draw from it the
                        inference she drewand was undeniably justified in drawingI had been tempted
                        to do so. It irritated me to see her finger upon the weak spot in
                        Armitage's profession of freedom from snobbishness.
                    "And Mary Kirkwood," pursued Edna, "she's
                        the same sort of fakir. Only, being a woman, she does it more deceptively
                        than he."
                    "She goes nowhere," said I.
                    "But she revels in the fact that she could go
                        anywhere. So, she fooled youdid she?" Edna laughed merrily at my
                        ill-concealed discomfiture "But then you know so little about
                        women."
                    
                    "I confess I've never seen in her the least sign of
                        snobbishness or of interest in fashionable foolishness," said I,
                        with what I flatter myself was a fair attempt at the impartial air.
                    "That in itself ought to have opened your eyes," said Edna.
                        "Whenever you see anyone, dear, with no sign of a weakness that
                        everybody in the world has, you may be sure you are seeing a
                        fraud."
                    "Because you have a weakness, dear," said
                        Ias pleasant and as acid as she, "you must not imagine it is
                        universal."
                    "But you have that weakness, too."
                    "Really?"
                    "Did you or did you not join the fashionable clubs Armitage put you
                        up at?"
                    I had to laugh at myself.
                    "Are you or are you not proud of the fact that your best friend,
                        Armitage, is a fashionable person? Would you be as proud of him if he were
                        only welcome in middle-class houses?"
                    "I'm ashamed to say there's something in
                        that," said I. "Not much, but something."
                    "Yet you believed Mary Kirkwood!" ended Edna.
                    "I thought little about it," said I. "And I still
                        believe that she is sincerethat she has no snobbishness in her."
                    "You like her?"
                    "So far as I know heryes." My answer was an attempt to meet
                        and parry a suspicion I felt in Edna's mind. And it was fairly
                        successful; fairlyfor no one ever yet completely dislodged a suspicion. We
                        cannot  see into each other's minds.
                        We know, from what is going on in our own minds, that the human mind is
                        capable of any vagary. Once we have applied this general principle to a
                        specific person, once we have become definitely aware that there are in that
                        person's mind things of which we have no knowledgefrom that time
                        forth suspicion of them is in us, and is ready to grow, to flourish.
                    I had no difficulty in shifting to the subject of the marriage.
                        "I'll cable for my lawyer," said I. "If
                        anyone can beat this game, Fred Norman can."
                    "Yessend for him," said Edna. "He is canny and a
                        man of our world."
                    "I'm going back to London to-night" I went on.
                    "To-night!" she exclaimed. Her eyes filled with tears.
                        "Godfreyis this treating us right?"
                    I looked at her intently. "Don't fake with me,"
                        said I quietly. "It isn't necessary."
                    "What do you mean?" cried she.
                    "I mean, I understand perfectly that you care nothing about me,
                        except as the source of the money you need in amusing yourself. As you see
                        in my manner, I am not wildly agitated by that fact. So far as I'm
                        concerned, there's no reason why we should make each other
                        uncomfortable."
                    "What is the matter with you, Godfrey?"
                        she said, with large widening eyes gazing at me. "You have changed
                        entirely."
                    "As you have," said I, admiring her shrewdness, and afraid
                        of it. "You've been educating. So have I.  Mine has been slower than yours and along
                        different lines. But it, too, has been thorough."
                    She was not satisfied, though I'm confident my tone and manner
                        betrayed nothing. Said she: "Some bad woman has been poisoning you
                        against Margot and me."
                    "As you please," said I, too wary to be drawn into that
                        discussion. I realized I had said entirely too much. Relying upon her
                        intense vanity, her profound belief in her power over me, I had gone too
                        far. "My business takes me to London to-night. I'll
                        probably be there until Norman arrives. Then we'll come
                        over."
                    "Don't you want us in London with you?" said Edna.
                    "You are comfortably settled here," replied I.
                        "Why disturb yourselves?"
                    She knew how to read me. She saw I was not in a dangerous mood, as she had
                        begun to fear. She said: "We did intend to stay
                        in Paris a month or six weeks. We have a charming circle of friends among
                        the old families here. I wish you'd stop on, Godfrey. The people
                        are attractive, and the social life is most interesting."
                    "Not to me," said I. "You forget I'm a
                        Hooligan. Besides, you don't need me. There's your
                        advantage through being young and lovely and rich. You can get plenty of men
                        to escort you about. It's only the old and ugly married woman who
                        really need their husbands. WellI'll be ready when you are forced
                        to fall back on me. Nothing like having in reserve a faithful
                        Dobbin."
                    
                    She looked hurt. "How can you joke about sacred things,"
                        she reproached.
                    I laughed her seriousness aside. "Yes, I'll be waiting,
                        ready to be your companion, the confidant of your rheumatism and gout, when
                        all the others have fled. Meanwhile, my dear, I'll have my
                        frisk."
                    "Godfrey!"
                    It amused me to see how bitter to her was the taste of the medicine she had
                        been forcing upon me so self-complacently. It amused me to watch the
                        confusion into which these new and unsuspected aspects of myself was
                        throwing her.
                    Said I: "I'm glad you're as generous toward me as
                        I've been toward you. That's why we've avoided
                        the Armitage sort of smash-up."
                    When I left Paris that night I'll engage she was thinking about me
                        as she had never thought in her whole self-centered, American-female
                    life.
                
                
                
                    VIII
                    MY cable to Norman was answered the next day but one by a
                        note from him, stopping in the same hotel. I shall not detail the
                        negotiations that followedthe long and stormy scenes between him and
                        Dawkins, solicitor to the Marquis of Crossley. It is sufficient to say that
                        Norman had the novel sensation of being beaten on every point. Not
                        outwitted, for he had wit enough and to spare for any contest of cunning;
                        but beaten by the centuries-old precedents and customs and requirements in
                        matters of dower and settlement. The mercenary marriage is an ancient habit
                        of the human race; in fact, the scientists have proved that it began with
                        marriage itself, that there was no marriage in the civilized sense until
                        there was property to marry for. Perhaps the mercenary marriage is not so
                        recent in America as our idyllists declare. Do we not read that the father
                        of his country married solely for money an almost feeble-minded woman whom
                        everybody knew he did not love? And, inasmuch as marriage is first of all a
                        businessthe business of providing for the material needs and wants of two
                        and their childrenmay it not barely be possible that the unqualifiedly
                        sentimental view of marriage can beperhaps has beenoverdone? In America,
                        where the marriage for sentiment prevails to an extent unknown anywhere else
                        in the worldis not  the institution of
                        marriage there in its most uneasy state? And may not that be the reason?
                    What a world of twaddle it is! If men and women could only learn to build
                        their ideals on the firm foundationthe only firm foundationof the practical
                        instead of upon the quicks and of lies and pretenses, wouldn't the
                        tower climb less shakily, if more slowly, toward the stars?
                    You may be sure there was nothing of the stars in those talks between Norman
                        and Dawkinsor in my talks with Normanor in Crossley's talks with
                        Dawkins. Crossley had had me looked uphad discovered as much about my
                        finances as it is possible to discover about the private business
                        of' an American. He had got the usual exaggerated estimate of my
                        wealth, and he was resolved that he would not be cheated of a single dollar
                        he might wring from me. From my standpoint it was obvious that he and Margot
                        must have plenty of money or they could not be happy. All I desired was to
                        prevent him from feeling financially freeand therefore under the
                        aristocratic code, morally freeto show and to act, after marriage, the
                        contempt I knew he felt for all things and persons Americanexcept the
                        dollars, which could be exchanged into sovereigns. I fought hard, but he
                        stood fast. Either Margot must lose him or I must give him about what he
                        askeda fortune in his own right for him. If I choose I could dower her; but
                        as to dowering him he would not permit the question of alternative to be
                        raised.
                    "All right," said I at last to Norman. "Give them
                        their minimum."
                    
                    He was astounded, was furiousand as he is not the ordinary lick-spittle
                        lawyer but a man of arrogant independence, he did not hesitate to let me see
                        that his angerand scornwere for myself. "Do you mean
                        that?" he said.
                    "Yes," replied I carelesslyas if I were now indifferent
                        about the whole business. "My girl wants his title. And why let a
                        question of money come between her and happiness?"
                    "I can't refrain from saying, Loring, that I'd not
                        have believed this of you."
                    "She's not fit to live in America," said I.
                        "Her mother hasn't educated her for it. American mothers
                        don't educate their daughters nowadays to be wives of American men.
                        Honestly, do you know an American man able to do for himself who would be
                        foolish enough to marry that sort of girl?"
                    His silence was assent.
                    "You see. I've got to buy her a husbandthat is, a titleover
                        here. This offering seems as good as there is in the marketat the price.
                        Sowhy not?"
                    "That's one view of it," said he coldly.
                    I laid my hand on his shoulder. "Come nowbe sensible," said
                        I. "What else can I do?"
                    "It would be an impertinence for me to say," replied he.
                    "I can guess," said I. "You needn't
                        trouble yourself to say it. You evidently don't know the
                        circumstances. And I may add that so long as I've got to buy Margot
                        a title I might as well buy her a good one."
                    
                    He eyed me sharply. But I did not take him into my confidencenor shall I
                        confide in you at present, gentle reader. I did not even let him see that I
                        was holding back anything. I went on with good-humored raillery:
                    "I'm doing better than Hanley or Vanderveld or Pattison or
                        any of the others who've dealt in these markets. For a marquis
                        Crossley is selling cheap. He's far from penniless, you know.
                        It's simply that he wants more money. Why, really, old man,
                        it's what's called a love match. They always call it a
                        love match when the nobleman isn't absolutely on his
                        uppers."
                    "You are certainly a philosopher, Loring," said Norman,
                        anxious, I saw, to finish and drop the affair.
                    "And I became one in the usual waynecessity," said I.
                        "I'm as eager to have this thing dispatched as you are. I
                        want to get out to sea, where perhaps the stench of aristocracy will blow
                        out of my nostrils, and stay out of them till I reach the other shore. Then
                        I'll get it again. It blows down the bay to meet the incoming
                        ships."
                    "Yes, we're pretty bad," admitted Norman.
                        "Not so bad as we used to be, but pretty bad." He laughed.
                        "They accuse us of loving money. Why, we are mere beginners at it.
                        We haven't learned how to idle or how to spend money except in
                        crude, tiresome ways. And to love money deeply you must know how to idle and
                        how to spend. Money's the passion with these
                        people. How they do need it!"
                    Neither shall I linger over the details of the engagement and the wedding.
                        For all that was important  about either I
                        refer you to the newspapers of London and New York. They gave everything
                        that makes a snob's eyes glisten and a snob's mouth water.
                        My wife has somewhereshe knows exactly wherea scrapbook, and my daughter has
                        another of the same kind. Those scrapbooks are strongly bound and the pages
                        are of the heaviest time- and wear-resisting paper. In them are pasted
                        columns on columns of lists of titles, of descriptions of jewels and
                        dresses, of enumerations of wedding gifts. Margot received things costing
                        small fortunes from people she barely knew well enough to invite. They gave
                        in the hopethe good hopeof gaining the valuable favor of the Marchioness of
                        Crossley, a great lady by reason of her title, a greater lady by reason of
                        the ancientness of the Massingford family, and at the top and summit of
                        greatness by reason of her wealth.
                    That last item, by the way, was vastly overestimated. Everyone assumed that
                        Crossley had sold much more dearly. No one but those intimately concerned
                        dreamed what a bargain I had got.
                    You may be picturing a sordid affair, redolent of the stenches of
                        commercialism. If you are, gentle reader, you are showing yourself unworthy
                        of your own soulfulness, unworthy of the elegant society into which I have
                        introduced you. I have been giving simply the plain factsa mere skeleton
                        upon which you, versed in society columns and society novels, and skilled in
                        the art of hiding ugly truths under pretty lies, may readily drape the flesh
                        and the garments of sentimentality and snobbishness. You will then have the
                        truth as it appeared  to the worlda handsome,
                        manly groom, every inch of him the patrician; a wondrous lovely, innocent,
                        pure young bride, looking the worthy mate of the great noble she had won
                        with her beauty and her sweetness; a background of magnificent houses and
                        equipages, of grand society people, of lackeys in livery without number; an
                        atmosphere of luxury, refinement, perfumed with the fairest flowers and the
                        most delicate artificial scents. You are seeing also the high and noble
                        motives of all concernedthe joy of parents in a daughter sentimentally wooed
                        and won to happiness; the generous and kindly feelings of all the friends;
                        the lavish and affectionate overflowing of costly gifts; above all, the
                        ecstatic young couple wrapped up in their love for each other. Flesh up and
                        beautify the skeleton to your taste, gentle reader. You will not go amiss.
                    I must linger a moment on the happiness of my daughter. It was too spiritual
                        to be of this earth. As soon as the miserable, unimportant money matters
                        were settled, and her mother gave her full leave to love, she threw herself
                        into it with all the ardor of the heroine of a novel. She had two diamond
                        hearts madeat the most fashionable jewelers in Paris, you may be sure. Upon
                        the inside of the one she kept she had engraved, under his picture,
                        "From Hugh to Margot." In the one she gave him there
                        surrounded her picture in diamond inlay, "To Hugh from his dear
                        love Margot."
                    Each was to wear the heart round the neck until death. Again and again I
                        caught her dreaming over hers, sometimes with tears in her limpid eyes.
                        Again 4nd again I caught her scribbling, "Margot, Marchioness  of Crossley, Viscountess Brear, Countess of
                        Felday and Noth, Baroness de Selve," and so on through a list of
                        titles which gentle reader will find in "Burke's"
                        and the "Almanach de Gotha."
                    And she had a reverent way of looking at him and a tender way of touching
                        him. Her mother, you will believe, spared neither expense nor pains in
                        getting together the trousseau. But Margot was not satisfied. "Not
                        nearly fine enough for his bride," she would say.
                        "I'm so afraid he'll be disappointed."
                        Then the tears would spring. "Oh, mamma! If he should be
                        disappointed in me!"
                    "Not so bad as if you were to be disappointed in him," I
                        put in with no other motive than to cheer her up.
                    But it only shocked her. "In Hugh!" she exclaimed, meaning
                        in Cecil Robert Grunleigh Percival Hugh Massingford, Marquis of Crossley,
                        etc. "I disappointed in him!
                        Oh, papa! You don't realize!"
                    "No, I suppose not," said I, getting myself away as
                        speedily as my legs would carry me.
                    Through these joyous scenes of youth and love and luxury I moved
                        gloomilyrestless, bitter, tormented by self-reproaches and by thoughts of
                        the woman I loved. What Edna had said about her, though I knew it was by way
                        of precautionary cattishness, put into my mind the inevitable suspicionno,
                        not actual suspicion, but germ of suspicionthe almost harmless germ from
                        which the most poisonous suspicions may develop. I went round and round my
                        mental image of Mary Kirkwood. I viewed it from all angles. But I could not
                        find a trace of the flaw Edna had asserted. I analyzed  her with all the analytical skill I possessed, and that, I
                        flatter myself, is not a little. No one who has not the faculty of analysis
                        ever gets anywhere; no one who has that faculty ever escapes the charge of
                        cynicism. Shallow peoplethe sort that make such a chargewill regard it as
                        proof of my utter cynicism, my absolute lack of sentiment, that I was able
                        to analyze the woman I loved, or pretended I loved. But I assure you, gentle
                        reader, that not even love and passion suspend the habitual processes of a
                        good mind. The reason you have read the contrary so often is because
                        precious few writers about men of the superior sort have the capacity to
                        comprehend the intellects they try to picture. To the man of large affairs,
                        the averageand many a one above the averagebiography or novel about a great
                        man reads like the attempt of a straddle bug to give his fellow straddle
                        bugs an account of an elephant.
                    I was the only inharmonious figure in that round of festivals. But no one
                        observed me. I simply got the reputation of being a man of reserve, a
                        thinker rather than a talkeras if there ever lived a thinker who did not
                        overflow with torrents of talk like a spring fed from a glacier; but, of
                        course, the spring flows only when the conditions are favorable, not when it
                        is ice-bound. I was not even interested in observing. There is a monotony
                        about the actions of fashionable people that soon reduces a spectator of
                        agile mind to stupor. The same thing over and over again, with variations so
                        slight that only a nit-wit would be interested in themCould there be a worse
                        indictment of the intelligence of the human race than that so large a part
                        of its presumably  most intelligent classes
                        engage in the social farce, which is an example of aimless activity about on
                        a level with a dog's chasing its own tail?
                    But Edna
                    As I look back on those weeks of days, each one crowded like a ragbag with
                        rubbish, the figure of Edna stands out radiant. You would never have thought
                        her the mother of the brideor, indeed, a mother at all. A woman who for many
                        years leads a virginal or almost virginal life gets back the vestal air of
                        the unmarried girl. This air had returned to Edna. She had it as markedly as
                        had Margot. It was most becoming to her piquant style of beauty, giving it
                        the allure of the height that invites ascent and capture, yet has never been
                        desecrated. And how she did enjoy the grandeur the great names, the gorgeous
                        presents of curiously and costlily wrought gold and silver and crystal, and
                        precious stones, the succession of panoramas of ultra-fashionable life, with
                        herself and Margot always the center.
                    I used to stand aside and watch her and feel as if I were hypnotized into
                        vivid hallucinations. I recalled the incidents of our early lifeBrooklyn,
                        the Passaic fiat, the squat and squalid homes of our childhood. I recalled
                        our peoplehers and minetucked away in homely obscurity among the New Jersey
                        hills. But by no effort of mind could I associate her with these realities.
                        She had literally been born again. I looked at the other Americans of humble
                        beginningsand there were not a few of them in that society. All had retained
                        some traces of their origin, had some characteristics  that made it not difficult to connect their present with their
                        past. But not Edna.
                    At the weddingin the most fashionable church in the West EndMargot looked
                        weary and rather old, gone slightly stale from too long and hard preliminary
                        training. Edna was at her bestdelicate, fragile, radiant. How the other
                        women hated her for that time-defying beauty of hers! Many of the women of
                        her still youthful age retained much of the physical attractiveness of
                        youth. But there was not another one who was not beginning to show the
                        effects of dissipationof too much food and wine and cigarettes, of lives
                        devoid of elevating sensations, of minds used only for petty, mean thoughts.
                        But Edna seemed in the flower of that period when the secrets of the soul
                        have as yet made no marks upon the countenance. You would have said she was
                        a merry and romantic girl. I could not fathom that mystery. I cannot fathom
                        it now. Its clew must be in her truly amazing powers of self-deception and
                        also in that unique capacity of hers for forgetting the thing, no matter
                        what, that is disagreeable to remember.
                    When we were at last alone, with the young couple off for the yacht Lord
                        Shangway had loaned them for the honeymoon, with the last guest gone and the
                        last powdered flunkey vanishedwhen she and I were alone, she settled herself
                        with a sigh and said:
                    "I wish I could make it begin all over again!"
                    "You must be built of steel," said I.
                    "I am supremely happy," said she, "and have been
                        for weeks. Nothing agrees with me so thoroughly as happiness."
                    
                    I looked at her scrutinizingly. No, she was not the least tired; she was as
                        fresh as if that moment risen from a long sleep in the air of seashore or
                        mountains.
                    She went on: "I'm going over to Paris to-morrow.
                        I've a lot of engagements there. And I must get some clothes.
                        I've worn out all I brought with me."
                    "Worn out" meant worn once or at most twice; for in a
                        society where everyone is seeing everyone else all the time a woman with a
                        reputation for dress cannot afford to reappear in clothes once seen. In some
                        circles this would sound delightfully prodigal, in others delightfully
                        impossible, and perhaps in still others delightfully criminal. But then all
                        that sort of thing is relativelike everything else in the world.
                    "Won't you come along?" said she in a perfunctory
                        tone.
                    "No, thanks," I replied. "I'm off for
                        Russia with a party of bankers to look at some mining properties."
                    "I thought you were returning to New York?" "Not
                        for several months," said I.
                    "How can you stay away so long from your beloved America?"
                    "Businessalways business."
                    She eyed me somewhat as one eyes a strange, mildly interesting specimen.
                        "Wellyou must enjoy it, or you wouldn't keep at it year in
                        and year out."
                    "One has to pass the time," said I.
                    "How does Mary Kirkwood pass the time?"
                    This unexpected andexcept sub-consciously accidental question, staggered me
                        for an instant. "I don't know much about it,"
                        said I. "She has a house  and she
                        looks after it, herself. She reads, I believe. She has gardensand they use
                        up a lot of time. Then she rides."
                    Edna yawned. " It sounds dull," she said. " But
                        domestic people are always dull. And she is certainly domestic. I wonder why
                        she doesn't marry again."
                    I was silent.
                    "Are any men attentive to her? It seems to me I heard something
                        about a novelistsome poor man who is after her money."
                    I was choking with rage and jealousy.
                    "Did you see any such man about? "
                    I contrived to compose myself for a calm reply.
                    "No one answering to your description," said I.
                    "Do you like her? "
                    "You asked me that once before," said I.
                    "OhI forgot. It seems to me you and she would have exactly suited
                        each other. You like domestic women. That is, you think you do. Really,
                        you'd probably fly from a woman of that sort."
                    "And a woman of the other sort would fly from me," said I,
                        laughing.
                    She looked at me thoughtfully. " You must admit you're not
                        easy to get on withexcept at a distance," observed she. "
                        But men of positive individuality are never easy to get on with. A big tree
                        blights all the little trees and bushes that try to grow in its
                        neighborhood.... No, Godfrey dear, you weren't made for domestic
                        lifeyou and I. Domestic life is successful only where there are two very
                        small and very much alike. People like us have to live alone."
                    
                    I rose abruptly. There was for me a sound in that " alone "
                        like the slam of a graveyard gate.
                    "You never will appreciate mehow satisfactory I've
                        been," she went on, " until you marry again."
                    "I must make my final arrangements for Russia," said I.
                    "Shall I see you in the morning? I'm leaving rather
                        early."
                    "Probably not," said I.
                    "Then we'll meet when you come back. We'll visit
                        Margot at Sothewell Abbey." She rose, drew herself to her full
                        height with a graceful gesture of triumph. " Don't you
                        honestly rather like it, being the father of a Marchioness? "
                    I could not speak. I looked at her.
                    "How solemn you are! " laughed she. " Well,
                        good-by, dear." And she held out her hand and turned her face
                        upward for me to kiss her lips.
                    "Oh, I'll probably see you in the morning," I
                        said, " or to-night." And away I went.
                    From Russia I drifted to India, intending to return home by the Pacific. At
                        Bombay I met Lord Blankenship, and he persuaded me to cross to East Africa.
                        I found him a companion exactly to my taste. He was a silent chap having
                        nothing to think about and nothing to think witha typical and model product
                        of the aristocratic education that completes a man as a sculptor completes
                        an image, and prepares him to stand in his appointed niche until decay
                        tumbles him down as rubbish. I had lost all my former passion for talking
                             and listening. I wished to confine
                        myselfmy thoughts to the trivial matters of the senses, to lingering over
                        and tinkering with the physical details of life. The silent and vacant
                        Blankenship set me a perfect example, one easy to fall into the habit of
                        following.
                    At Paris, I picked up my private secretary, Markham, and resumed attention to
                        my affairs. I had arranged for things to go on without me, when I set out
                        for East Africa. I found that my guess as to how they would go had been
                        correct. For a month or so there was confusionthe confusion that is
                        inevitable when a man who has attended to everything abruptly throws up his
                        leadership. Then the affairs in which he fancied himself indispensable begin
                        to move as well as if he were at the throttleperhaps better. The most
                        substantial result of my neglect seemed to be that I had become much richer,
                        had more than recovered what my purchase of a son-in-law had cost me.
                    Markham, who had been at Cairo two months, had got himself engaged to be
                        married. For several years I had been promising him a good position, that is
                        to say, one more fitting a grown man of real capacity. But he made himself
                        so useful that I put off redeeming my promise and eased my conscience and
                        quieted his ambition with a succession of increases of salary. Now, however,
                        I could no longer delay releasing him. So I must go back to New York, to
                        find some one to take his place. Blankenship was wavering between a trip
                        through West Africa and going to America with me, on the chance of my
                        accompanying him on a shooting trip through British Columbia. He decided to
                        stick  to me, and as I had grown thoroughly
                        used to having him about I was rather glad. It is astonishing how much
                        comfort one can get out of the society of a silent man, when one feels that
                        he is a good fellow and a devoted friend.
                    I telegraphed Edna that I would be unable to cone to London, where she then
                        was. But she defeated my plan for not seeing her. When I reached Paris there
                        she was waiting for me at the Ritz. She had a swarm of French, Italians, and
                        English about herI believe there were some Germans or Austrians, also. I
                        refused to be annoyed with them, and we dined quietly with Blankenship,
                        Markham, and a pretty little Countess de Salevac to act as buffers between
                        us. I tried to avoid being left alone with her, but she would not have it
                        so. She insisted on my coming to her sitting room after the others had gone.
                    "I know you are tired," said she, " but I
                        shan't detain you long."
                    "Please don't," said I. " The journey has
                        knocked me out. I've not slept for two nights."
                    "It's a shame to worry you "
                    I made for the door. " Not to-nightno worries. They'll keep
                        until to-morrow."
                    "No, Godfrey dear," she said. " I must tell you at
                        once. There is serious trouble between Margot and Hugh."
                    "Why, they haven't been married a year."
                    "He has been treating her shamefully from the outset. In fact, he
                        cut short the honeymoon to hurry back to that music-hall person."
                    
                    "The one I saw him with? "
                    "Yesthe same onethat notorious Jupey What's-her-name.
                        Isn't it dreadful! Margot's pride is up in arms. Nothing I
                        say will quiet her."
                    "Um," said I.
                    "She refuses to understand that over here husbands are allowed
                        aa"
                    "Latitude," I suggested.
                    "More latitude than in America. I have talked with Hugh, too. He
                        isvery difficult. Really, he isn't at all as he seemed. He is ahe
                        is horribly coarse."
                    "People who think of nothing but how to get money without work and
                        how to spend it without usefulness are apt to be coarse, when you probe
                        through to the reality of them."
                    "He isdefiant," pursued she, too femininely practical to
                        have interest in or patience with philosophy. " He Godfrey, he says
                        he hates her. He won't speak to her. And there's no
                        prospect of an heir. He says he wants to get rid of her."
                    These successive admissions of a worse and worse mess were forced from her by
                        my air of indifference.
                    "What has she done? " I asked.
                    "Done? I don't understand;"
                    "What has she done to drive him to extremes? "
                    "Godfrey! " she cried in a shocked tone. " You taking sides against your daughteryour only child!
                        Have you no paternal feeling, either? "
                    "Not much," said I. " You see, I've seen
                        little of Margotnot enough to get acquainted with her. And you educated her
                        so that we are uncongenial. No  since you set
                        me to thinking, I find I haven't much paternal feeling for her. I
                        used to have in Passaic, when I wheeled her about the streets on
                        Sundays."
                    I paused to enjoy the shame my wife was struggling with.
                    "But soon after we moved to Brooklyn" Edna winced and
                        shivered.
                    "You sent her away to begin to be a lady. And a lady she isand
                        ladies are not daughtersare not women even."
                    "You must help me, Godfrey," said Edna, after a strained
                        silence. " Margot is wretched, and a dreadful scandal may break out
                        in time. Already people are talking. Margot is ashamed to show herself in
                        public. She thinks everyone is laughing at her."
                    "No doubt she's right," said I. " A woman
                        who loses her husband on the honeymoon is likely to be laughed at.... What
                        did she do? "
                    "Why do you persist in saying that? " cried she, so
                        irritated that she could not altogether restrain herself. " Your
                        dislike of women has become a mania with you."
                    "But I don't dislike them," replied I. "
                        On the contrary, I like themlike them so well that their worthlessness
                        angers me like the treachery of a friend. And I believe so much in their
                        power that, when things go wrong, I blame them. They have dominion over the
                        men and over the children. And whenever they use their powers it is to make
                        fools of the men and weaklings of the children. I don't know which
                        is the worse influencethe wishy-washy, unpractical, preacher morality of the
                             good woman or the lazy, idle,
                        irresponsible dissipation of thethe ladies and near-ladies and lady-climbers
                        and lady-imitators."
                    "But this has nothing to do with poor Margot! " exclaimed
                        she impatiently.
                    "Everything to do with her," replied I. "
                        Stillit's a spilt pail of milk. As for the presentand future How
                        can I do anything to help her? "
                    "You can't, if you condemn her unheard."
                    "I don't condemn her. I am simply recognizing that there
                        are two sides to this quarrel. And I assure you, you only make matters worse
                        when you interfere without recognizing that fact. So I say again, what did
                            she do? "
                    My wife calmed slightly and replied : " He says she made him
                        ridiculous with the airs she put on."
                    I laughed. " After the education you gave her? "
                    "That's right! Blame me! "
                    "And aren't you to be blamed? " urged I.
                        " Didn't you have full charge of her from the time she was
                        born? Couldn't you have made what you pleased of her?
                        Didn't you make what you pleased of her? "
                    Edna tossed her head indignantly. " I never taught her to be a
                        vulgar snob."
                    "Why, I thought that was her whole education."
                    Edna ignored this interruption. " It's all very well for
                        the women of noble families to act the snob," pursued she.
                        " Lots of them do, and no one criticises. But Margot ought to have
                        had sense enough to realize that she, a mere American, couldn't
                        afford to do it. I warned her that her cue was sweetness and an air of
                        equality.  I told her that her title in itself
                        would keep people at their proper distance. But she lost her head."
                    "Then the thing for her to do is to behave herself."
                    "It's too late, I'm afraid. The tide has turned
                        against her. All the womenespecially the titled English women of good
                        familywere against herhated herwere ready to stab her in the back. And her
                        haughtiness and condescension gave them the chance."
                    "Well, what do you propose? To give him more money? "
                    Edna showed none of her familiar scorn of sordid things. She reflected, said
                        uncertainly : " I wonder would that do any good? "
                    "To win anyone give them what they most want," said I.
                        " What do your friends over here want above everything and
                        anything? "
                    "Perhaps you are right," confessed she. Consider, gentle
                        reader, what this confession involved, how it exposed the rotten insincerity
                        of all her and her fine friends' pretenses. " Yes, I guess
                        you're right, Godfrey." She pressed her hands to her
                        temples. " It simply must be straightened out. I
                        am quite distracted. I can't afford to lose sleep and to be
                        harrowed up. Those things mean ruin to a woman's looks. And what
                            would I do if she were flung back on my hands in this
                        disgraceful fashion!"
                    "You want me to go to London? "
                    "Godfrey, you must go. You must see her, and him,
                        too."
                    "I was thinking it would be enough to see him. But perhaps
                        you're right."
                    
                    "She is clean mad," cried Edna, with sudden fury against
                        her daughter. " She doesn't appreciate the peril of her
                        position. One minute she's all for groveling. The next she talks
                        like an idiot about her rank and power. Oh, she is a foola fool! I always knew she wasthough I wouldn't admit it to
                        myself. You never will know what a time I've had training her to
                        hide it enough to make a pleasing appearance. She is a brainless
                        fool."
                    "A fool, but not brainless," said I. " Her
                        education made her a fool and paralyzed her brain. You see, she
                        didn't have the advantages you had in your early training. In your
                        early days you had the chance to learn somethingthe useful things that have
                        saved you from the consequences of such folly as you've taught
                        her."
                    "What nonsense! " cried Edna in disgust. " But we
                        mustn't quarrel. I'm agitated enough already. You will go
                        to London? "
                    "Yes," said I, after reflecting. " I'll
                        go."
                    "When? "
                    "To-morrow."
                    "And I'll go with you."
                    "No," said I firmly. " Either I manage this affair
                        alone or I have nothing to do with it."
                    "But, Godfrey, there are so many things about these people that you
                        don't understand. And you "
                    "I understand the essential thing," said I. " And
                        that is their mania for money."
                    She was on the verge of hysteriaafraid I would not go, afraid of what I would
                        do if I did go. " But  they have to
                        be handled carefully," she urged. " If you put them in a
                        position where their pride won't let them take thethe money
                        "
                    "Trust me," said I. " Go to bed, sleep soundly,
                        and trust me."
                    I stood. She suddenly flung herself against my breast and began to sob on my
                        shoulder. " You are hard and cold," she said. "
                        You have no sympathy with meno feeling for anything but business. But
                        some-howin spite of it allI have such a sense of your strength and your
                        honesty."
                    I laughed rather awkwardly, patted her shoulder, helped her to a chair.
                        " There are times when a coarse, common American business man of a
                        husband has his usesand advantages," I said lightly. "
                        I'll telegraph you how things are going."
                    She dried her eyes, looked at me in a puzzled way. " You always
                        repulse me," she said.
                    "I appreciate your kindness in remembering to toss a few crumbs to
                        the starving man," laughed I. " They are precious crumbs,
                        no doubt, and more than he deserves. Butplease don't do it. He
                        hates that sort of thing. You are free to act as you feel like acting.
                        I'll do as much for you and Margot without the crumbs as with
                        them."
                    "How hard you are, Godfrey! How you have always misunderstood me!
                        "
                    "That's right," said I amiably. "
                        I'm too coarse for such a fine nature. Wellgood night."
                    I took myself hastily away to bed; and at ten the next morning I departed for
                        London.
                    
                    I decided to see Margot first. She was at Sothewell Abbey, about an hour by
                        express from Paddington. You perhaps know Sothewell Abbey through the
                        pictures and descriptions. And it is indeed an imposing pile of old masonry
                        seated in the midst of a park of surpassing beauty. As soon as I entered the
                        ancient gates for the two-mile drive to the Abbey, I saw signs that my money
                        was in action. When I first visited it, the lodge was in sad disrepair, the
                        gates were about to fall to pieces and the vista of the drive was unkempt.
                        Now, all was changed. The servile pair who came out to open for me, and made
                        me fear they would drop down on their bellies and crawl before me, were
                        neatly and properly dressed, in strong contrast to their former appearance.
                    The exterior of the house, which had been most " romantic "
                        but obviously the front of poverty and decay, looked much betternot younger
                        I hasten to assure you, quiet reader, but somewhat like a hairless,
                        toothless old man when he gets a nice white wig on his pate and a set of
                        good false teeth on his shriveled gums. I saw gardeners at workand plenty
                        there was for them to do. Within, I saw evidences of a more adequate staff
                        of servants; but the great halls were dreary and bare and dingy. That was a
                        cold summer in England, even colder than the summer usually is. So, the
                        enormous house was literally uninhabitable, like all the European palaces,
                        city and country, that I have been in. I can fancy what such a place must be
                        in winter with no way of heating it but open fireplaces, and not many of
                        them. I can't conceive any sane American, used to comfort in the
                        way of steam heat, spending a winter in the English country.
                    
                    I know it is done by Americans reputedly sane; but if those at home knew what
                        Europe in winter meantthe old-fashioned " romantic "
                        Europethey would not believe their expatriated countrymen sane in
                        sacrificing comfort and health to vanity. Yes, I believe they would; for, do
                        not they, at home, make the same imbecile sacrifices to vanity in other
                        ways?
                    "Take me to some small warm room," said I to Margot,
                        " before I catch my death of cold." This the instant I was
                        within doors and felt in my very marrow the clammy chill of that picturesque
                        vaulted hall.
                    "There isn't any warm room in the house," replied
                        she.
                    "How about the kitchen? " said I.
                    She looked alarmedbeing her mother's own daughter, in lack of the
                        sense of humor as in many other ways. She said hastily: " The
                        upstairs rooms are a little better."
                    "They couldn't be worse. These rooms are cold
                        storage."
                    "I'm getting used to it," said she. " One
                        doesn't mind it so much after a while."
                    Her nose was red and swollen, and her voice husky. She had a frightful cold
                        at that very moment. " Why don't you get out of here and
                        go to a decent modern hotel in town? " said I.
                    "Give up possession! " cried she in horror. " He
                        might not let me come back."
                    It was too ridiculous. " Possession of what? " said I.
                    "Oh, papa!" cried she, in despair and
                        shame at my coarse stupidity.
                    
                    "Possession of what? " I repeated. " Of a dirty,
                        dingy old cold-storage plant. Why should you want to come back? Put on your
                        wraps and let's fly to town by the next train."
                    She burst into tears. " I'd rather die! " she
                        sobbed. " I won't give up my position. I
                        am Marchioness of Crossley and I belong here."
                    "All right," said I. " Let's try the
                        smaller rooms."
                    She led me up a vast stairwayit would have thrilled your soul, gentle reader.
                        Think how it sounds, put into the fitting language " The beautiful
                        young Marchioness conducted her father up the ancient and magnificent
                        stairway that rose from the spacious mediaeval hall and swept in a curve of
                        wonderfully wrought stone work, dating from the thirteenth century, to the
                        upper chambers of the majestic old abbey." I hurried her as fast as
                        I could, for we both were sneezing and a hideous draught like the breath of
                        death was streaming from somewhere. I don't mind looking at
                        pictures of abbeys and the like; but when I read of the grandeur of living
                        in that sort of place, I laugh. The men who built them did as well as they
                        could in the age they lived in. But what shall be said of men who dwell in
                        them now, when infinitely better is to be had?
                    Those upper chambers! Cold, clammy, draughtythe furniture and hangings old
                        and dowdy. And my daughter's room! Like a squalid, decrepit
                        tenement flat. Yes, squalid; for the rugs and draperies were dirty, were
                        stained and frayed. There was a distinct tenement odor.
                    
                    "Isn't it fascinating? " said she, gazing round
                        with sparkling eyes.
                    "Where's the fire? " said I.
                    She led me to a smelly, low-ceilinged little room, like a segment out of a
                        hovel. It was her boudoir, she informed me. In one wall, in a dinky
                        fireplace burned a handful of fire.
                    "Is that it? " said I. " Is that all? "
                    "You must remember, papa," said she proudly, "
                        that this isn't a modern house."
                    "Ring for a servant," said I. " This overcoat of
                        mine is too light. I must have wraps if I'm to sit here. And
                        you'd better get out your furs and put them on."
                    "The servants'd think me mad," said she.
                        " Must you have a coat? "
                    "Nothat spread will do," said I. And I jerked it from the
                        sofa and flung it round my shoulders. " I don't want to
                        upset your establishment. Good God, I had no idea people with any money at
                        all anywhere on earth lived like this. If you're going to stay
                        here, you must put in steam heat."
                    "Oh, we couldn't do that, papa dear," said she
                        with a plaintive mingling of shame for me and apology for the tradition
                        against sense and health.
                    "Let's get to business, Margot," said I.
                        " Sit in the fireplacethat's right. What's the
                        trouble? Your mother has explainedhas told all she knew. I've come
                        to find what the quarrel is really about."
                    "Has she told you of that woman? "
                    "Why did he go back to her? "
                    She began to sob. " Oh, the hideous things he said  to me! I didn't dream a gentleman
                        could talk like that. He called me a low Americansaid he was ashamed of
                        mesaid he was going to get rid of me at any cost, said "
                    "But what had you done! " interrupted I.
                    "Nothing! " she cried, lifting her flushed face. "
                        Absolutely nothingexcept worship him."
                    "What had you done? " I repeated. As she started to rise I
                        restrained her. " Stay in the fireplace. What was the beginning of
                        the rowthe very beginning? "
                    Her eyes wavered, but she said: " Nothing, papa! " though
                        less vigorously.
                    "It was about money," said I. " It always isin all
                        ranks of society. The beginnings of the quarrels have money at the bottom of
                        them. Nowtell me! "
                    She was silent.
                    "I can't help you unless you do."
                    "Oh, it was so sordid! " cried she. " And I
                        thought him high above those things."
                    "No one that's human is," said I. " Any
                        person who wears pants or skirts that have to be paid for is not above
                        money."
                    "He wanted me to turn over to him all I had," said she.
                        " Think of that! "
                    "I might have known," said I.
                    "He said it was beneath his dignity as an English gentleman to have
                        a wife independent of him. And, do you know, papa, I was so infatuated that
                        I almost yielded. I could see his point of view. And I'd have been
                        glad to come to him for every cent. Only" She stopped short.
                    
                    "Only what? " I urged.
                    "I heard about that other woman. And his way of treating me He said
                        it was the proper way for a marquis to treat his marchioness. And I liked
                        the dignity and the beauty of it all, when others were about. But it seemed
                        to me that when we were alone Oh, papa, I can't tell you these
                        things."
                    "Never mind," said I. " I understand."
                    "And I wasa little jealous, away down in my heartand suspicious. And
                        I was afraid he wanted the money to spend on her."
                    "Um," said I. " You didn't tell your
                        mother this? "
                    "She hates sordidness of every kind," said Margot.
                        " And I hadn't the courage. Besides, I'm sure
                        mamma would have advised me to let him have his way. She wouldn't
                        sympathize with thethe weak side of my character."
                    I was interested. Could it be that Edna's daughter had a "
                        weak "a human side? Could it be that her education and her mode of
                        life had not altogether killed the natural and made her soul a garden of
                        artificial flowers only?
                    "So, you want to be free from him? " said I.
                    "Free from him! " cried she, aghast. " Give up my
                        position? Oh, papanevernever! "
                    "But you don't love him. Don't come away from that
                        fire! "
                    She seated herself by the miserable smoky little blaze again. " He
                        is my husband. I am his wife. I am the Marchioness of Crossley."
                        And she drew herself up  with as much of an
                        air as her cold and the contracted space in the chimney-piece permitted.
                        Unluckily, the sudden gesture caused a current of air, and she sneezed
                        oncetwicethree times.
                    "Better get those furs," said I. " You want the
                        man back? "
                    "Yes, indeed. I must have him back." She clasped her hands
                        and wailed, " If I only had a son! Thenthen
                        I'd show Hugh that he couldn't trample on me. But he has
                        me in his power now. If he casts me off I shan't have any position
                        at all. The women are down on me. They hate all the American women, except
                        those who toady to them and give them money or jewelry or pay their bridge
                        and dressmaker's bills. And they're only too glad of the
                        chance to crush me. But they'll not succeed! "
                    "Why not? " said I dryly.
                    She burst into tears. " Oh, I don't know what to do! Papa,
                        shall I give him the money?sign over all my income to him and take only what
                        he'll allow me? And would he come back if I did?
                    "He would not," said I.
                    "Thenwhat shall I do? Oh, what slaves we women are! Think of it,
                        papa! He wants to make a slave of me said he
                        didn't believe in women gadding about and showing themselves off in
                        costly dresses and causing scandalous talk said my place was at home looking
                        after the house and that sort of thing! " She laughed wildly.
                        " Like a low, common servant! And hehe free to carry on with that
                        woman! "
                    
                    "You might teach him to stay at home, if you set him a good
                        example," suggested I.
                    "But I don't want to stay at home! " cried she.
                        " I didn't marry for that. I want to enjoy all the
                        privileges of my rank."
                    "To be sure," said I.
                    "I wasn't brought up to be like a low, middle-class woman,
                        or a workingman's wife."
                    "No, indeed," said I. " You are a lady.
                        You're made, not to be of use in the world, but to enjoy
                        yourself."
                    She seemed to find some cause for dissatisfaction in my enthusiastic tone.
                        " Of course," she said, " I shall do my duty as a
                        member of the high nobilitylead in society and open bazars and visit the
                        poor on our estate andand all that."
                    "Yes, indeed," said I. " And the world being what
                        it is, there's no reason why you shouldn't."
                    "Do you think you can bring him back, papa? " "
                        That depends on you," said I warily.
                    "I'll do anythinganything. I'll crawl to him, if
                        he wants me to. After all, he is the Marquis of Crossley, and I'm
                        only an American nobody."
                    "That's the proper spirit," said I. " But
                        you mustn't show it to him too plainly. Be moderate. A little
                        pretense of dignityof self-respect."
                    "I understand," said she seriouslyshe was indeed
                        Edna's own daughter. " I'll be as I was before we
                        were married." Her eyes flashed. " Oh, I can bide my time.
                        When I have a son! "
                    "Get ready and come up to town to-night," said I,  with a most unfatherly gruffness and
                        curtness, I fear. " I'm off now to deal with
                        him."
                    "Be careful not to wound his pride, papa," she cautioned.
                    "I realize the danger of that," replied I. " Come
                        to the Savoy. Be on hand, so I can get hold of you whenever I need
                        you."
                    "Oh, papa dear! " she cried, and cast
                        herself into my arms.
                    I brushed my lips upon her crown of hairit was false hair, that being the
                        fashion of the day. " Try to make yourself as pretty as you
                        can," said I, releasing her and myself. " You'll
                        hear from me tonight or tomorrow, unless I've caught my death in
                        this damp cave. You must leave it to the frogs, and snakes, and bats, and
                        build yourself a decent house somewhere. You'll die here."
                    "I'm afraid Hugh wouldn't consent to live anywhere but here. It's the ancestral seat, you
                        know. The Massingfords have lived here since forever and ever."
                    "Have died here, you mean. Have killed wives they wanted to get rid
                        of, here."
                    She startledlooked excitedly at me. " Papa! " she exclaimed
                        breathlessly. " YesI wouldn't put it past him! "
                    I laughed.
                    She drew a long breath of relief. " Oh, you weren't in
                        earnest," she said.
                    "No," replied I. " Butdon't live
                        here."
                    "I shan't," said she firmly. "
                        It's dreadful for the  looks.
                        You've seen what so many of these English women look
                        like."
                    "Like shriveled, frost-bitten apples," said I.
                        "They don't die because they're used to it. But
                        it's death for people accustomed to civilization. Not even the
                        steady glow of pride in your title and position can keep you heated up
                        enough to save you."
                    "Will you give Hugh a house, if he'll consent?"
                    "Yes.... Until to-night or to-morrow."
                    And I fled from the romantic old Abbey, but not soon enough to avoid what was
                        threatening to be the cold of my life.
                
                
                
                    IX
                    THE moment I was in London, and before that Sothewell
                        Abbey cold had a chance to grip me, I went at it. Starve, stay in bed, and
                        keep the air out for a day that's the way to put a cold out of
                        business. Unless it be some occasional prodigy endowed with superhuman
                        common sense and self-restraint, no one learns how to take care of his
                        health except by experience. The doctors know precious little about disease;
                        about health they know nothingnaturally, they have no interest in health.
                        The average human being not only does not know how to take care of his
                        health, but also does not wish to learn how; health involves self-denial,
                        cutting down on food, drink, tobacco and the other joys of life. So he who
                        wishes to avoid enormous payments in discomfort and pain for slight neglects
                        and transgressions of physical laws has to work it out for himself.
                        I've made several valuable discoveries in the science and art of
                        living; about the most valuable of them is that every illness starts under
                        cover of a cold. So I instantly take myself in hand whenever I begin to
                        sneeze and to have chilly sensations or a catch in the throat. The result
                        has been that since I was thirty I have not spent a cent on doctors or lost
                        a day through illness, and I've eaten and drunk about as I pleased.
                        I can see gentle reader's expression 
                        of disdain at these confessions as to my care for health. You are welcome to
                        your disdain, gentle reader. It is characteristic of your shallowness. You
                        see, the chief difference between you and me is that I have imagination
                        while you have not. And as I have imagination, illness makes to my mind a
                        picture of revolting internal conditions which I can no more endure than I
                        could endure having my outside unclean and frowzy.
                    Margot, coming by a later train, sent me word that she was ill. She had
                        called in a doctor. He poured some medicinesome poisoninto her, of course,
                        and so got her into the way of giving him an excuse for robbing her. In
                        England doctors rank socially with butchers and bakers, rank scientifically
                        with voodoo quacks and astrologers. They still look on a cold as a trifle,
                        and treat it by feeding! The food and drugs she swallowed soon reduced
                        Margot to the state where it was taking all the reserve force of her youth
                        to save her from severe illness. I was entirely well the following day, and
                        went to see her. The doctorfive guineas or twenty-five dollars a visitwas
                        coming twice a day; his assistant two guineas or ten dollars a visitwas
                        coming four times a day. The Marchioness of Crossley, a rich American, was
                        ill. Her social position and Dr. Sir Spratt Wallet's rank as a
                        practitioner together made it imperative that the illness be no ordinary
                        affair. The second day he issued bulletins to the papers. I attempted to
                        interfere in the treatment, but Margot would not have it.
                    "She's growing worse instead of better," said I to
                        Wallet.
                    
                    "Certainly, sir," replied he. "That is the regular
                        course with a cold." And he stroked his whiskers and looked at me
                        with dull, self-complacent, supercilious eyes. "The regular course,
                        sir."
                    "In England, but not in America," said I.
                    "I dare say," said he, with heavy politeness. Then, after a
                        heavy pause, "her ladyship will be quite fit again in a weekquite
                        fit."
                    As she was eating three strapping meals a day and taking rhinitis and another
                        equally poisonous drug I had my doubts. But once you let a doctor in you are
                        powerless. If you order him out without giving him an opportunity in his own
                        good time to cure the mischief he has done the consequences may be serious.
                        Not to linger over this incident in high life, Wallet made out of that cold
                        a hundred guineas, not counting his commissions on the fees of his
                        assistant, on the wages of a trained nurse, and on the stuff from the
                        chemist. If Margot had been English born the bill would have been about one
                        fourth that sumfor the same rank in society. Slay the Midianite! But
                        that's the rule the world over. When I am
                        "trimmed" abroad I console myself with reflecting on the
                        fate of the luckless foreigner visiting America. Europe trims us to the
                        quick; but we trim to the bone; and when no foreigners are handy we keep in
                        practice by trimming one another.
                    Margot's illness did not interfere with my efforts to right her
                        matrimonial ship and set it in its course again. I had greatly modified my
                        original plan. It involved my seeking the Marquis. My new plan was to compel
                        him to seek me. I proceeded so successfully 
                        that on the morning of the third day of Margot's
                        "indisposition," while I was at breakfast in my sitting
                        room, Markham came in with a grin of triumph on his face. "You
                        win," he cried. "But you always do."
                    "Dawkins?"
                    "Here's his card."
                    "Let him up. Nowait.... Tell him I'll see him in half an
                        hour."
                    Gentle reader, you are about to learn why in that controversy over
                        settlements I abruptly abandoned the struggle and yielded
                        everything. I worked with Markham at my mail and telegrams for three
                        quarters of an hour before I let Dawkins in. I saw at a glance that my
                        treatment of him had produced the effect I had hoped. He was a typical
                        middle-class Englishmanbut all middleclass Englishmen are typical. He was
                        fattish and baldish and smug. He had a beef-and-beer face, ruddy and smooth
                        except tufts of red-gray, curling whiskers before either ear. He had cold,
                        shrewd, pious eyesthe eyes of the hypocrite who serves the Lord with every
                        breath he draws, and gets a blessing upon every crime he commits before
                        committing it. In my first interviews with him I, being new to England, had
                        made the mistake of treating him as an equal, that is, as a human being. My
                        respect for myself forbids me to meet any of my fellow-members of the human
                        race in any other fashion. But experience has taught me that in doing
                        business with a man, it is being absolutely necessary that you dominate him
                        unless you are willing to have him dominate you, the most skillful care must
                        be taken to impress him with  your
                        superiority. A certain amount of "side" is useful in
                        America. A lot of it is imperative in England; and if you are dealing with
                        an Englishman who feels that he is low, you dare not treat him as an equal
                        or he at once imagines you are lower than he, and despicable and you can do
                        nothing with him.
                    I had suffered, and so had my lawyer, Norman, for our American way of
                        treating Dawkins. I appreciated my mistake afterwards, and resolved not to
                        repeat it. I studied the manner of Crossley and Blankenship and the other
                        upper-class men toward the middle and lower classes, and I learned to copy
                        it, an accomplishment of which I am not proud, though common sense forbids
                        me to be ashamed of it. Dawkins, entering with heels thoroughly cooled, made
                        ready to put out his hand, but did so hesitatingly. He saw that his worst
                        fears were realized, altered the handshaking gesture into a tug at his right
                        whiskers. Nor did I offer him a seat, but simply looked at him pleasantly
                        over the top of my newspaper and said:
                    "Ah, Dawkins, is that you?"
                    "Good morning, Mr. Loring. Hope you are well, sir," said
                        Dawkins, now squeezing awkwardly into his proper place.
                    I half turned my back on him and dictated a note and a telegram to Markham.
                        Then I glanced at Dawkins again. "Ah, Dawkins, yeswhat were you
                        saying?"
                    "I would esteem it a favor, sir, if you would give me a few minutes
                        of your timealone."
                    "We are alone," said I. "What is it?"
                    
                    The solicitor shifted his portly frame uneasily, smoothed his top hat with
                        his gloved left hand, glanced dubiously at Markham. "The matter is
                        confidential, sirrelating toto the family."
                    "Mr. Markham knows more about my affairs than I do," said
                        I. "Don't beat about the bush, Dawkins. I have no time to
                        waste."
                    "Very well, sir. I beg your pardon. It concerns those bondsthe bonds
                        you turned over to me in arranging the settlements."
                    "Yes. I remember. Great Lakes and Gulf bonds, were they
                        not?"
                    "Precisely, sir. You bound us to a stipulation that they were not to
                        be converted for at least five years."
                    "That's right," said I. "In fact, I made
                        it impossible for you to convert them."
                    A pained expression came into the face of Dawkins.
                    "I believe I conceded everything else your client
                        demanded," pursued I.
                    "But it now develops, sir," said Dawkins, "that
                        that was the only important thing."
                    "Really?" said I.
                    "You have doubtless seen the papers these last few daysthe stock
                        market."
                    "Yes.... Yesso the bonds are dropping.
                        That's unfortunate."
                    "Dropping rapidly," said Dawkins. "And there are
                        rumors that Great Lakes and Gulf will soon be practically
                        worthless."
                    "So I've read."
                    
                    "I've come to ask you to release us. We wish to sell. We
                        must sell. If we don't the settlement on your son-in-law will be
                        worthless."
                    I smiled agreeably. "As worthless as his promises, to my daughter.
                        As worthless as he is."
                    Dawkins was breathing heavily. His pious eyes were snapping with rage. He had
                        prided himself on his astuteness. He had gloated over his shrewdness in
                        out-witting Norman and me. And now he discovered that the boot was on the
                        other leg. I had trapped him and put him and his client in my power.
                    I leaned back comfortably and smiled. "Of course I know nothing
                        about it, Dawkins, but I am willing to make a Yankee guess that the bonds
                        will continue to drop until"
                    When my pause became unendurable, he said: "Yes, sir. Until
                        when?"
                    "Until I discover some signs of value in my son-in-law. Then he may
                        discover some signs of value in the bonds. Our America is a peculiar
                        country, Dawkins."
                    "Peculiar will do, sir," said he with respectful insolence.
                        "But I should have chosen another word."
                    I shook my head laughingly. "What bad losers you English
                        are!" said I. "ButI'll not detain you. Good
                        morning, Dawkins."
                    "Then I am to understand, sir"
                    But I had my back squarely to him and was busy with Markham, who took his cue
                        for the little comedy we were playing like the well-trained American
                        business  man that he was. Presently Markham
                        said, "He's gone, and I never saw a madder man get out of
                        a room more awkwardly."
                    You, gentle reader, who know about as much of the science of managing men in
                        practical life as you know of any other phase of the world-that-isyou,
                        gentle reader, are shocked by my rudeness to a polite, well-educated,
                        well-dressed Englishman. And you hopeand feelthat I overreached myself. But
                        let me inform younot for your instruction but for my own
                        satisfactioncourtesy has to be used most sparingly. Human vanity is so
                        monstrous that men eagerly read into politeness to themthe most ordinary
                        politenessevidence that their superiority is inspiring fear, awe and desire
                        to conciliate them. You often hear men in high place severely criticised for
                        being rude, short, arrogant, insulting. Do not condemn them too hastily. It
                        may be that they were driven into this attitude toward their fellows by the
                        disastrous consequences of courtesy. Be polite to a man and he will
                        misunderstand. Be cool to him and he, thickly enveloped in his own good
                        opinion of himself, will not feel it. Rudeness, overt and unmistakable, is
                        often the one way to reach him and save not only yourself but also him from
                        the consequences of his vanity. It is the instinct of big men to be big and
                        simple and natural in their dealings with their fellows. The mass of little
                        men with big vanities compels them to suppress this instinct; and by
                        suppression it inevitably becomes in time crushed out of existence. How can
                        one who is busy continue to show consideration for others if they, instead
                        of showing a return consideration  for him,
                        take it as tribute to their importance and begin to rear and impose and
                        trample?
                    To cite my own relatively unimportant case, I have long had a reputation for
                        coldness and meager civility in my business relations. I recall distinctly
                        the desperate pressure of sheer imposition that led me to abandon my early
                        openness to all comers at all times. And I admit that I did change; rather
                        abruptly, too, for it suddenly came to me why I was slipping backwards. But
                        looking only at my career since the change, when I think
                        of the boredom I have endured, the folly I have permitted to waste my
                        valuable timewhen I recall the forbearance I have shown in sparing impudent
                        and lazy incompetence where I might, yes, ought to have used the axwhen I
                        think of my good-natured tolerance in face of extremest daily provocation,
                        year after year, I marvel at myself and feel how unjust, how
                        characteristically the verdict of little shallow men, is the attack on me as
                        cold and unsympathetic. When I consider how the leaders of the human race
                        have been tempted to tyranny, I cannot understand why history is able to
                        record comparatively few real tyrants, most of them being homicidal lunatics
                        like Nero, or successcrazed megalomaniacs like Napoleon, and almost none men
                        of sanity. If the great of earth were as vain, as selfishly, as
                        egotistically inconsiderate of the small as the small are of the great and
                        of each other, would not the story of history have come to an end long ago
                        for lack of surviving characters?
                    Two days after Dawkins came Crossley. I knew that in America there is no one
                        so easily frightened as  a rich man who has
                        inherited his wealth and does not know whether, if he lost it, he could make
                        a living or not. All rich men are cowards, but that species is craven. I
                        suspected that the same thing was true of the European typethe nobleman with
                        the grotesque pose of disdain for money that convinces and captivates you,
                        gentle reader, and your favorite authors. Crossley's face instantly
                        showed me that my suspicion was correct. He had been dissipating wildly for
                        several weeks, but it did not account for the look in his eyes. If, gentle
                        reader, you wish to learn the truth about the aristocracy you worshipwhich
                        you do notget an aristocrat where you can cut off or turn on his supply of
                        cash at will. You will then discover that he who has a stiff neck also has
                        supple kneesthe stiffer the neck the suppler the knees.
                    Crossley was a clever chap in his way; that is, he knew his business of idle
                        spender of unearned money thoroughly. Another mode of putting it would be
                        the commonplace and less exact if more alluring phrase "aristocrat
                        to his finger tips." There are many modes of cringing. He showed
                        judgment and tastejudgment of me, taste in sparing himselfin his choice of
                        the mode. With fright and wariness in his eyesthe look of readiness to go to
                        any depths of self-abasement in gaining his endhe put a tone of manly,
                        bluff, shame-faced contrition into his voice as he said:
                    "Pardon my breaking in on you this way. I've just heard. Is
                            she very ill?"
                    He meant he had just heard about the bonds. I knew he meant that, and he knew
                        I knew it. But we  were men of the world.
                        "Not desperately ill," said I. "Only about twenty
                        guineas a day."
                    He smiled a faint but flattering appreciation of my humor, then resumed his
                        gloomy anxiety and self-reproach. "But she is
                        ill. I read it in one of those screaming ha'penny rags and came as
                        fast as ever I could. The truth iswell, we've had a bit of a row.
                        Has she told you?"
                    "Not much," said I. "A little."
                    "I've acted the skunk, the howling skunkand I want to Do
                        you think she'll see me?"
                    "If you wish, I'll find out."
                    "I'd be no end grateful," said he with enthusiasm.
                    She saw him as soon as she could make herself presentableand her delay gave
                        him a chance to tone up his nerves and to smooth out his face. That
                        afternoon I was able to telegraph Edna that all was well. The Crossleys were
                        reconciled; Love had scored another of his famous triumphs. She came over
                        the following day, but I had sailed for America a few hours before.
                    The day after my arrival in New York I saw Mary Kirkwood and Hartley Beechman
                        lunching together at Delmonico's. In those days that meant an
                        engagement actual or impendingor, at least, a flirtation far advanced into
                        the stage of loverlike intimacy. I was in the passageway looking through the
                        glass and the screen of palms. I stood there long, noting every detail of
                        her. She was well, perfectly wellof that much her eyes and her color assured
                        me. Is there anything  lovelier than a clear
                        dark skin, tastefully set off by black-brown hair? Was she happy? I could
                        not tell. Still in her face was that restless, expectant looknot unlike the
                        expression of a child being shown a picture book and too impatient for the
                        next page rightly to examine the one that is open. An intense interest in
                        life, an intense vitalitythat fascinating capacity to love, if she found the
                        right man. And her beauty
                    Beauty she undoubtedly had. But charm does not lie in beautyphysical charm, I
                        mean. There is a certain light in the eyes, a certain curve of cheek and
                        throat, of bosom and armand the blood flames and rushes. She had charm for
                        me. Her beauty impressed others; it was her charm that made her the one
                        woman to me.
                    Blankenship came to take me into the caf where we were to lunch. I went with
                        the meager consolation that while I had stood there she had given Beechman
                        not a single glance with any suggestion of a feeling it would have wounded
                        me to the quick to see. Should I speak to her? Did I dare risk the attempt?
                        Would not speaking to her be merely a useless torment? After a long struggle
                        that could have but one end, I said: "Excuse me," rose and
                        went to the palm room. They were gone; the waiter was clearing the table at
                        which they had been sitting. I stared round dazedly, returned to
                        Blankenship.
                    "You're not up to the markwhat?" said he.
                    "New York doesn't agree with me."
                    "I hate towns. They give you such dirty second-hand stuff to
                        breathe. Let's move onwhat?"
                    
                    "To-morrow," I said.
                    But it seemed there was no place on earth for me. Don't judge me so
                        poorly as to think, or to imagine I thought, this was due wholly to Mary
                        Kirkwood. I wish to be carefully, exactly accurate in this frank recital of
                        a man's point of view. She was responsible for my forlorn state to
                        the extent that loving her had revealed to me the futility and failure of my
                        own life and had made me see another sort of life that would have been
                        possible with her, that was impossible without herwithout love and
                        comradeship. But loving her did not make my life empty; it was already
                        empty, though I had not realized it. I understood now why the big business
                        men, as soon as they reached security, cast about for some real interest.
                        Most of themnearly allwere as unfortunate in their family relations as I.
                        They had trivial wives and trivial childrenmere silly strutters and
                        spenders. They sought interest in art, in science, in religion, in
                        exploration, in philanthropy, in politics, in stamps and butterflies, in old
                        books and antiques, in racing stables and prize fighting, in gambling, in
                        drink, in women. Their craving was now mine. How to find an interest that
                        would make life attractive to me, with Mary Kirkwood left outthere was my
                        problem.
                    While waiting for the solution, I followed Blankenship to the Northwest. The
                        second day from New York, as he and I were walking up and down the platform
                        during a haltat St. Paul, I think it wasHartley Beechman joined us.
                    "Didn't I see you in the caf at Delmonico's a few
                             days ago?" said he. "I
                        was getting my hat and stick in a rush. It certainly looked like your
                        back."
                    "It was," said I. And I was seized with a wild longing to
                        escape from him and a wilder longing to hold on to him and to pour out
                        question after question.
                    "Mrs. Kirkwood and I were lunching together," he went on.
                        "We talked of you. I told her I thought I had seen you, and she
                        said she heard you were in town and was much hurt because you
                        hadn't looked her up."
                    "I was merely passing through," said I.
                    "She has an enormous admiration for you," continued he.
                        "She says you have imaginationwhich means that she thinks you in
                        the small class. You know the world divides into sheep and goats on
                        imagination, with the mass in the have-not class. I believe it's
                        the true distinction between House of Have and House of Have-not."
                    "She is well?" said I.
                    "Always. She knows how to take care of herself. I never knew a woman
                        so sensibleand sensible means the reverse of what it's usually
                        supposed to mean when applied to a woman."
                    This hardly sounded like an engaged man talking of his fiance. On the other
                        hand, Beechman was a peculiar chap.
                    "Does she still live in the country?"
                    "Just nowyes. Last winter she kept house for Bob in New
                        York."
                    But you will not be interested in how I drew from him bit by bit a hundred
                        details of her life, stories of  what she had
                        said and done. I saw Beechman several hours every day until he left us at
                        Seattle. Alternately I thought him merely her closest man friend and her
                        accepted lover. At times I thought he was not quite sure, himself, in which
                        position he stood. When we were having our last talk together I nerved
                        myself and said:
                    "I heard in London that she was to be married."
                    I felt him drawing in and shutting all doors and windows.
                    "Have you heard anything of it?" pursued
                        I.
                    "Oh, in the case of a woman like her," replied he,
                        "there's always gossip about this man and that."
                    "She ought to marry."
                    "She will marry."
                    I forced a smile, and, as we knew each other so well, I ventured:
                        "You speak as one having authority."
                    "Don't you know she will?"
                        parried he.
                    "That sounds like evasion," laughed I.
                    "Not at all. She cannot escape. Some man will convince
                        hersurely."
                    "But so far as you know, no man has?"
                    His eyes were frankly mocking. "I did not say that," said
                        he.
                    And I could get no further.
                    Before I returned to New York in the autumn I had added a lot of far western
                        enterprises to my already long list of occupations. Everything I touched
                        seemed to succeed. Even my new secretary, Rossiter, proved better than
                        Markham. Markham had an indifferent memory and a fondness for women that was
                             trying. Rossiter forgot nothing and was
                        as shy of the women, including the ladies, as was Lord Blankenship, who
                        yawned and retreated at the very sight of a skirt. The news from England was
                        altogether satisfactory. An heir was hoped for, and Crossley had become a
                        devoted husband and was about to enter politics. This struck me as a huge
                        joke, the more so because I knew that in England Crossley would be welcomed
                        as a source of real strength to his party. It seemed to me amazing how
                        England could stagger along when she was being managed by such men and was
                        grateful for it. But when I spoke to Blankenship about it, he set me to
                        thinking from a different standpoint.
                    "My son-in-law is going into politics," said I.
                        "In America he couldn't be elected dog-catcher."
                    "Oh, I fancy money will do most anything most anywhere,"
                        said he.
                    The news from Paris was equally good. Edna had settled there after a joyous
                        summer going from country house to country house in Britain, and from
                        chateau to chateau in France. She had seen one chateau which she wished me
                        to buy, and she begged me to come over and inspect it. She did not
                        explicitly say so, but I read between the lines that she was greatly
                        strengthening her social position by giving out that she purposed buying a
                        big place. You may imagine how much enthusiasm for her such an announcement
                        would create among noble down-at-the-heel families eager to exchange
                        unsalable old rook-roosts for American dollars. I could hear her talkinghow
                        subtly she would put forth the suggestion, how diplomatically she would
                        discuss  each worthless stone heap in turnand
                        how she would rake in the invitations so difficult to get unless one happens
                        to know how, and so easy when one does know.
                    But with my arrival in New York I had a reverse. A cable came from Edna
                        saying that she was sailing at once and wished to see me.
                    I could not imagine what she wanted, and I did not waste much time in making
                        guesses. One evening, when Armitage and I were dining together in the
                        Federal Club Blankenship had sailed for homethe idea flashed into my mind
                        that perhaps Edna wanted a divorce. Immediately I felt that I had hit upon
                        the precise reason for her coming. You will have no difficulty in imagining
                        what was the next idea in my train of thought. If she divorced me I should
                        be free to marry whom I pleased!
                    It was stupid of me, but in all my revolvings of my hopeless love for Mary
                        Kirkwood never once had I thought of divorcing my wife. I cannot account for
                        this lapse, except as an instance of the universal human failing for
                        overlooking the obvious. There was no religious scruple in my early training
                        to make me shy of divorce. On the contrary, my parents, like most
                        old-fashioned Americans of faiths other than Episcopal and Catholicand
                        Episcopalians and Catholics were few in the old American stock, except in
                        New York and Baltimore and South Carolinamost old-fashioned Americans
                        believed that living together in wedlock without love was sin, that divorce
                        was no mere necessary evil, but a religious rite as sacred as marriage  itself. A house, they held, is either a House
                        of Hate or a House of Love, and no one should remain in a House of Hate, and
                        no child should be brought up there.
                    No doubt, if Edna and I had been living under the same roof the idea of
                        divorce would have taken form, actively definite form, long before. But we
                        had no home to be a House of Hate. We did not hate each other; we bored each
                        other. And as we were not poor, we lived far enough apart not to annoy each
                        other in the least. I cheerfully paid any ransom she exacted for leaving me
                        freeand you may be sure she was not inexpensive. She had her own fortuneand
                        it gave her quite an incomebut she husbanded that. She insisted upon state
                        and equipage, not to mention such small matters as stockings at fifty
                        dollars a pair and chemises at three hundred dollars apiecefor, she knew how
                        lovely she was and demanded for her beautiful body the most beautiful
                        garments that could be devised by French ingenuity at combining cost and
                        simplicity. I wasby instinct rather than by avowed principlesthoroughly
                        old-fashioned in my family ideas. Indeed, I still am; and I say this with no
                        apology. It may be that woman will some day develop another and higher
                        sphere for herself. But first she would do wellin my humbly heretical
                        opinionto learn to fill the sphere she now rattles round in like one dry pea
                        in a ten-gallon can. I want to see a few more women up to the modern
                        requirements for wife and mother. I want to see a few more women making a
                        living without using their sex charmsa few less  'tending the typewriter with one eye while the other and busier
                        is on the lookout for a husband. I believe in emancipation of womenin votes
                        for womenin all that sort of thing. The one and only way to learn to swim is
                        in the water. I am sick and tired of woman the irresponsible, woman the
                        cozener and milker of man, woman the dead weight upon man, and drawing the
                        pay of a housewife and shirking all a housewife's duties. So, you
                        see, I am the friend of womannot of woman's vanity and laziness and
                        passion for parasiteism, but of woman's education and self-respect
                        and independence.
                    I was thoroughly old-fashioned. My notion of wife was the independent,
                        self-respecting equal of her husband. That is, I had the typical American
                        husband's idealthe ideal that dates from the pioneer days of no
                        property and of labor for all, the ideal the American man still lives up to,
                        the one that enables woman to betray him. And, having this ideal, I never
                        permitted myselfno, not even when I spoke to her the contrary in wordsI
                        never permitted myself to feel that my wife was not in the
                        main what she should be.
                    If you have borne me company thus far, gentle reader, turn away now. For,
                        dreadful things are coming. I said to Armitage: "Your
                        sistershe's still in the country?"
                    "No, she's abroad," replied he.
                        "She's visiting friends in Budapest. Later on
                        she's to yacht in the East Mediterraneanshe and the Horace
                        Armstrongs and Beechmanand" He gave several names I do not now
                        recall.
                    
                    "Is she engaged to Beechman?" I asked carelessly, but the
                        question was not one that could sound other than raw.
                    He smiledan expression I did not like. At first I thought it a rebuke to my
                        impertinence. Afterwards I saw no such notion was in his mind.
                        "Beechman? Good Lord, no."
                    "You are sure?"
                    "Absolute. He'd not dare go in that direction with her."
                    "Why not?" said I.
                    "Ohwellyou see She doesn't care for him," replied
                        Armitage lamely. I was not liking him so well, now that I knew the worldhis
                        worldbetter and could judge its beliefs and its hypocrisies more accurately.
                    "He's an unusual man," said I. "She might
                        easily care for him."
                    "Well, she doesn't," retorted he irritably.
                        "I happen to know she doesn't."
                    I was convinced. Armitage's tone said in effect that he had heard
                        the rumor, had questioned her, had been assured that there was no basis for
                        it.
                    So, she was abroadfive or six days away. I could not go to her and make a
                        beginning. Would I have gone if she had been within reach? I do not know. I
                        rather think not. As I have said, I was old-fashioned; and the sort of love
                        I felt for her, and my sense of what she had suffered at the hands of the
                        first man she had trusted would have made me wait, I hope, until I was free.
                        Still, love is insidiously compelling. Who can say what love would or would
                        not beguile or goad him into  doing? The
                        old-fashioned man, always reminding himself that women haven't an
                        equal chance with men, was inclined to be considerate in his dealings with a
                        woman. The new-fashioned man lets her look out for herself. I am not sure
                        that he is wrong. Perhaps some who have read thus far will guess the reason
                        for my doubt.
                    You may imagine how impatiently I waited for Edna to arrive. I am afraid
                        Rossiter found me difficult in those intervening days. Only the weak sort of
                        men and women are easy for an intelligent person to live with. Men and women
                        of positive character have their impossible moods. I made this remark to
                        Mary Kirkwood on that yachting trip in the Sound. And her quick answer was:
                        "Yes, that's true. But everything worth while is
                        difficult. Weathering the stormy days would have its compensationsand
                        more." What a woman! No wonder I loved her.
                    When Edna finally arrived
                    What an arrival it was! She was attended by two maids, one French, the other
                        Italian. She had trained themshe and their former fashionable mistressesto
                        treat her as if she was a royal person, requiring the most minute
                        assistance, incapable even of ascertaining for herself whether it was
                        daylight or dark, rain or shine. She was clad in the latest Paris fashions,
                        adapted and improved for her own especial charms. She wore much jewelry, but
                        nothing noisy. There never was anything noisy about herany more than there
                        is about a burst of sunshine that fills and floods the whole place,
                        permeating everywhere and dominating everything. She talked by turns in
                        Englishwith a superb British accent  in French
                        that sounded Parisian and in Italian that seemed as liquid and swift as the
                        Italian maid's. It was a vast ship, and there were about a thousand
                        passengers, and much luggage. To me, to all on the pier that day, there
                        seemed to be but one landing and but one lot of luggage.
                    How many trunks had she? Heaven only knows. The customs people were glad to
                        expedite her after a glance at the exhibit imposing both in extent and in
                        costliness. She affected a delightful, most aristocratic unconsciousness of
                        the stir she was making, of the excited admiration of men, of the gaping or
                        jeering envy of women. Yes, it was a great day, and as I accompanied her in
                        the auto to the Plaza, I felt dowdy and insignificantfelt like a humble male
                        menial, a courier or valet.
                    "I did not fully appreciate your magnificence," said I,
                        "until I saw you on these humble shores."
                    "It is shocking hereisn't it?"
                        said she. "So incomplete, so crude. No wonder the ideals are low.
                        The surroundings give no inspiration."
                    "Noneexcept for work," said I. "It's a
                        land for working people only. No doubt you'll be going back
                        soon?"
                    "As soon as I can," replied she. With a friendly but not
                        tender smile: "As soon as you'll let me."
                    The absence of her customary effusiveness confirmed my theory of her coming.
                        I had thought all out with the utmost care. I felt it would be in every way
                        unwise to let her see that I was eager for the divorce. She must open the
                        subject. It had ever been my rule, when  I
                        wanted anything, so to maneuver that the other person should propose the
                        exchange. It is the rule of successful operation in every department of
                        life. Therefore, adhering strictly to my prearranged programme, I could only
                        sit tight and wait.
                    How she tried my patience! I was mad to have the preliminaries over, to have
                        the divorce under waymad, not with the hysterical impatience of those
                        short-sighted people who mess their purposes through lack of self-restraint,
                        but with the white-hot repressed patience of those who have their way in
                        this world. Day followed day, and she did not speak. I gave up the evenings
                        and a large part of the afternoons to her. I stayed on after dinner until
                        there was no further excuse for lingering. I listened to her interminable
                        recital of fashionable names, dates, gossip, adventure. A week of this, and
                        just as my fortitude was wearing itself out and I had begun to debate
                        opening the subject myself, she said:
                    "I've been down looking at our house. Really it's
                        not half bad. Why shouldn't we open it?"
                    I did not know what to say. Was I mistaken in her purpose in coming? Or was
                        this proposal to open the house the clever move of a clever gamester to
                        force me to speak first?
                    "This lovely weather!" she went on. "It's
                        a shame such a climate should be wasted upon such a vulgar city. When I
                        think of the dreadful rains that infest Paris and the rains and fogs of
                        London How they would glory in this sun and sparkling air."
                    To my notion New York was vastly more attractive than dreary London or rainy,
                        sloppy Paris. But I made  no defense of New
                        York. I wished her to think it crude and tiresome.
                    "And the fashionable society here," she went on.
                        "What a silly copy of the real thing over there!"
                    "It must remind you of Passaic," said I.
                    She visibly shivered.
                    I was suddenly seized of a base inspiration. In my despair I did not
                        hesitate. Said I: "That reminds me. We must go over to see the old
                        people."
                    "Oh, yes," she murmured. "I'm so
                        neglectful."
                    I feltI sawthat I was on the right track at last.
                    "When will you go?" I persisted. "Next
                        Sunday?"
                    "Perhaps," said she faintly.
                    "Yes, we'll go Sunday. They fret because you never
                        write."
                    "They are well?"
                    "In splendid health. There's no reason why all four of them
                        shouldn't outlive us."
                    "Youyou go often?" she faltered.
                    "I haven't been for some time," said I.
                        "You see, I've been away.... If we opened the house, we
                        could have them visit us. That would make up to them for the way
                        we've acted."
                    She gazed at me in large-eyed horror. Suddenly she smiled with patient scorn
                        and shrugged her shoulders. "Oh, I had forgotten your passion for
                        jesting."
                    "I am in earnest," said Iand I was indeed in the full flood
                        of a virtuous penitence whose hypocrisy I did not detect until I was
                        thinking about the matter afterwards. You, gentle reader, would in the same
                        circumstances never have permitted yourself to discover the  hypocrisy. I went on: "I'm
                        ashamed of the way I've acted."
                    "They've got everything they need or want," said
                        Edna.
                    "Material comfort," replied I. "But
                        haven't parents a right to expect something more? And now that our
                        social position is secure, we've no excuse for acting
                        snobbishly."
                    I enjoyed this virtuous talk for itself; still more, I enjoyed teasing her.
                        Her delicate, refined, ladylike nerves were aristocratically sensitive. Have
                        you observed that peculiarity of lady nerves? A lady will live with the most
                        shocking husband for luxury. She will endure the most degrading humiliations
                        to get dresses, jewels, motor cars. She will crawl in the dirt to gain or to
                        improve social position. She will, without a quiver, kiss her worst enemy,
                        cut her dearest friends, in the furtherance of any ladylike purpose. But
                        talk to her of self-respecting independence, of earning her own living, or
                        of any of the homely decencies of lifeof her ignorant old parents or
                        unsightly poor relativesand what a fairy princess of high-strung nerves she
                        straightway becomes. Yes, Edna was a ladya perfect lady, as perfect as if
                        she had been born to it.
                    To my surprise I had daunted her only for the day; the following afternoon
                        she began again. "This heavenly weather!" she exclaimed.
                        "It tempts me to stay on and on."
                    "I hope it will last over Sunday," said I.
                    She ignored the shaft, and went on with undiminished enthusiasm:
                        "And really New York has improved. 
                        In some respects it can be compared to Paristhough, of course, it has no
                        background. A city can be built in a generation or so. But to build up the
                        countrythat takes centuries."
                    "It's building up rapidly," said I.
                        "You'll be astonished Sunday by the change down where the
                        old folks are. The Fosdicks have bought up twenty farms or so, and are
                        making a park. I saw Amy Siersdorf not long ago and she spoke of having
                        stopped at father's place and got milk and corn bread."
                    "The fluffy little cat," said Edna, not especially ruffled.
                        "I shall snub her the first time we meet. But I was about to speak
                        of our house. I am arranging to open it. Of course, Margot can't
                        come over this winter, but I don't really need
                        her. We owe it to our friends here to do something socially. I want to stop
                        the gossip."
                    "The gossip?" said I.
                    "The talk because we are not living together. It isn't
                        dangerous, but it's uncomfortable. I believe people like us ought
                        to maintain the best social traditionsought to set a good example to the
                        lower classes."
                    "Oh, bother!" said I as good-humoredly as I could.
                        "We'll do as we please. Otherwise, where's the
                        use in having money?"
                    A pause which I felt was hopeful. Edna said with affected carelessness:
                            "You don't think people have a right
                        toto divorce?"
                    At last! My intuition had been correct! "Why not?" replied
                        I, my tone as casual as hers. "Certainly, if they wish."
                    A long silence. Then she: "Sometimes I feel that  way myself. When two people find that
                        they're uncongenial, that they'd be better offhappierif
                        free to go their separate ways and to realize to the full their own ideals
                        of life Why not?"
                    "Precisely my view," said I.
                    Again a long silence. She finally said: "Has it ever occurred to
                        you, Godfrey, that you and I might be better offapart?"
                    I laughed. "It's a good many years now since we were
                        together," replied I. "We might as well be divorced as
                        living the way we do."
                    "It's because I've been feeling those very things,
                        that I've come back," said she. "It seemed to me
                        that, now I've fulfilled my duty to Margot, I ought to do my duty
                        to you."
                    "That's like you," said I. "For you life
                        is one long sacrifice."
                    If she scented irony she dissembled well. "Sacrifice is the
                        woman's part," replied she sweetly.
                    "No doubt," I went on, "you're willing to
                        stay here where you're unhappy, and for my sake to jam the house
                        night after night with people you care nothing about, and disport yourself
                        in splendor to make the world envy me. I appreciate your nobility of
                        character, but I positively can't allow it."
                    "We must do our duty," said she. "Society expects
                        certain things of us, and we must do them."
                    "Not I, my dear. Open the house if you like. But I stick to my
                        bachelor apartment."
                    "Do you want me to go back to Europe?" said she with a fine
                        show of quiet melancholy.
                    
                    "I want you to do as you please," was my answer.
                    "But unless I stay here, and you and I take our place in society
                        together, I" She hesitated. "Now that Margot is
                        settled," she went on desperately, "I am adrift.
                        AndGodfrey, we can't go on as we are."
                    "I see that," said I. "What do you
                        propose?"
                    "To stay in New York," replied she, with the promptness of
                        the skilled fencer. "To stay here and be the mistress of your
                        establishment."
                    "My establishment is an apartment at Sherry's."
                    "But that's impossible!" remonstrated she.
                    "Be calm, my dear. I don't ask you to lead my kind of
                        life."
                    "Thenwhat do you propose?" ventured she.
                    I shrugged my shoulders and settled myself more comfortably in her luxurious
                        motor. I gazed with absorbed interest at the bunch of orchids in the
                        flower-holder.
                    "I don't see how we can continue neither free nor
                        bound," pursued she.
                    "Whatever you like," said I. "Onlyno fashionable
                        capering for me."
                    "Do you want me to get a divorce, Godfrey?" said she.
                    "I want you to be happy," said I. "Divorce has no
                        terrors for me. Aren't we practically divorced already?"
                    "That's true," said she. "We never did
                        have much in common." Then she reddenedfor, she could not quite
                        forget those first days of our married life, before I got the money to feed
                        her ambition. "You make me  feel as
                        if you were ano, not a stranger, but only a friend."
                    "And we are friends," said I heartily.
                        "And always shall be." For I was beginning to like her, to
                        take the amiably indifferent outsider's view of her, now that she
                        was freeing me.
                    "Godfrey, do you want to marry again?" she asked with a
                        sudden shrewd look straight into my eyes.
                    I laughed easily. "That question might better come from
                        me," said I. "You will never be happy, I suppose, until
                        you are the Duchess or Princess Something-or-other."
                    A flush stole over her small sweet face, making it lovelier than ever.
                        "I never thought of such a thing," she protestedbut too
                        energetically.
                    "Nonsense," said I. "You've dreamed it
                        for years. Be honest with me, Edna."
                    "How could I dream it?" replied she. "It would
                        take an awful lot of money."
                    "You have quite a bunch," said I. "And if we
                        parted, naturally I'd give you more."
                    Once againbut this time slowlythe searching gaze turned upon me.
                    I bore it well. "You can't live as I live," I went
                        on. "I won't live as you live. You say that means divorce.
                        I don't think so. Many rich American couples live apart without
                        divorce. I believe usually the reason is the wife has found she
                        couldn't get a large enough slice of the husband's
                        fortune, if she divorced him. Still, for whatever reason, they stay married.
                        You don't like the idea. So I say, if you want to go I'll
                        give you as much as  I gave Margotin addition
                        to what you already have and my blessing. I've some sentiment about
                        the past, but it is as a past."
                    "I amstunned," said she. And I think her vanity was.
                    "It's what you want?"rejoined I.
                    "You put me in a hard position, Godfrey. You give me no alternative
                        but to accept."
                    "I am a hard man," said I suavely.
                    "You are really willing to let me go?"
                    "You expected to have a difficult time persuading me?"
                        laughed I.
                    She looked at me reproachfully. "Do be serious, Godfrey, about these
                        serious things."
                    "All right. What do you say, Edna? Yes or no?"
                    "I must have time to think," replied she. "This is
                        a very solemn moment."
                    "Why fake?" said I pleasantly. "You have it all
                        thought out."
                    "It is solemn to me, Godfrey."
                    "There's nothing solemn about our married life.
                        It's a farce."
                    But she was searching for confirmation of her fear of some kind of trap.
                        "You really mean that you wish to free me?" she said.
                    "I mean precisely what I say," replied I. "Freedom
                        and the cash are yours for the asking. But you must ask, my dear.
                        I'll not have any more of your favorite comedy of making yourself
                        out a martyr."
                    "You don't know how you hurt me," cried she.
                    
                    "But you always have hurt mealways. I know" very gently
                        "that you didn't mean to, but you haven't
                        understood."
                    "I did my best," said I, with the pleasant smile of which
                        she was so intolerant. "But what can be expected of a plain, coarse
                        materialist of a business man?"
                    "Yet you are generous in many ways," mused she.
                        "It's simply that you can't understand
                        me."
                    "Perhaps it's you that don't
                        understand me" said I.
                    "What do you mean?" inquired she.
                    "Oh, nothing," I replied carelessly. How hope to make a
                        vain woman, obsessed of the notion that she has a profound and mysterious
                        soul when she simply has a fog-bankhow hope to make her see the truth about
                        herself? "It isn't worth explaining. Onlywhen you are free
                        and you find some one who appreciates and sympathizes with that soul of
                        yours, be careful to pay him well, and to keep on paying. You can always be
                        flattered and fooled, if you pay for it. But if you don't pay Look
                        out. You may hear the truth."
                    "What a cynic you are!" she cried. "Thank God, I
                        haven't your low views of life."
                    "Keep your views, by all means," said I. "But
                        don't forget my advice. You are lovely. You are charming. You dress
                        beautifully and have good taste. But it's the money, my dear, that
                        causes the excitement about those charms and graces. Hold on to your
                        principal, and spend your income freely but judiciously."
                    "If I could only convince you that there is something beside money
                        in the world."
                    
                    "Not for those to whom money is the breath of life,"
                        replied I.
                    When we returned to her hotel she urged me to come in for tea. We went into
                        the greenroom, to listen to the music and to observe the crowds. There was a
                        sprinkling of men, but two thirds were womenwomen of all classes and
                        conditions, above the working class. Women obviously fashionable as well as
                        rich. Women obviously only rich. Women living off men respectably. Women
                        "trimming" here and there. An army of pretty
                        womenwell-cared-for bodies, attractive faces, inviting the various kinds of
                        sensual attack from the subtlest to the frankest. This woman at the next
                        table is rather cheaply dressed, except a gorgeous hat. That woman yonder
                        has contrived to "trim" only a handsome set of furs; it
                        looks grotesque with the rest of the costume. A third has a huge gilt bag as
                        her sole claim to sisterhood with the throng of fair pampered parasites upon
                        husbands, fathers, lovers. A charming and a useless throng. No, not
                        charming, unless a man happens to be in the mood in which he succumbs to the
                        trimming process with pleasureand then, he would not think them altogether
                        useless.
                    "New York grows more and more like Europe," said my wife,
                        gazing around with shining eyes, and inhaling the heavily scented atmosphere
                        with dilating nostrils. "More and more like Europe."
                    "More and more," replied I. "Especially the
                        women."
                    "Oh, they're ahead of the European women," said
                        she.
                    
                    "So they are," said I. "Yesthey beat the European
                        women at it. But I'm not sure whether that's because they
                        are really cleverer, or merely because our men trim more readily."
                    She regarded me with an expression of mildly interested perplexity, as if she
                        couldn't imagine what was the "it" I was talking
                        about. "You must admit they are lovely," said she.
                    "Admit it?" said I. "I proclaim it. If a
                        man's notion of dinner is only the dessert, he couldn't do
                        better."
                    She looked still more vagueone of her tricks when she wished to avoid or to
                        ignore. "I never touch desserts," said she.
                    As I was leavingfor we were not dining together that eveningshe said:
                    "I shall think about your proposal."
                    I looked straight at her. "Tell me whether you will or will not
                        confirm your own proposal," said I. "And don't
                        delay too long. Unfinished business makes me nervous."
                    She returned my look with quiet composure. "I shall let you know
                        to-morrow," said she.
                
                
                
                    X
                    AMONG my acquaintances, both in and out of fashionable
                        society, there were not a few jealous husbands. I knew one man who, in the
                        evening, made his wife account for every moment of the day, and tell him in
                        detail how she was going to spend the following day, and during business
                        hours he called up irregularly on the telephone. He was not content with the
                        effective system of espionage which a retinue of servants automatically
                        establishes. Another manto give a typical instance of each of the two
                        typeshired detectives from time to time to watch his wife living abroad
                        "for her health and to educate her children." In a
                        decently ordered society this sort of jealousy is rare. Only where the women
                        are luxuriously supported parasites and the men are attaching but the one
                        value to the womenthe only value they possess for themonly there do you find
                        this defiling jealousy the rule instead of the exception. Naturally, if the
                        woman is mere property the man guards her as he guards the rest of his
                        material possessions; and the woman who consents to be mere property
                        probably needs guarding if she has qualities of desirability discoverable by
                        other eyes than those of her overprizing owner.
                    This jealousy was in the air of the offices and clubs  frequented. But it had somehow or other never infected me. Was
                        I occupied too deeply with other matters? Was I indifferent? Did my own
                        disinclination to dalliance make me slow to appreciate the large part
                        dalliance now plays in American life? I do not know why I was free from
                        jealousy. I only know that never once had my mind been shadowed by a
                        sinister thought as to what my wife might be about, far away and free.
                        Possibly my knowledge of her absorption in social ambition kept me quiet.
                        Certainly a woman whose whole mind and heart are set upon social climbing is
                        about the last person a seeker for dalliance would invest.
                    I had never heard a word or a hint of a scandal about herfor the best of
                        reasons; she did nothing to cause that kind of talk. But, how curious is
                        coincidence! On the very evening of the day of our divorce discussion Edna
                        had her first experience of scandal, and I immediately knew of it. After
                        leaving her I went to the Federal Club, where I often took a hand in a
                        rather stiff game of bridge before dinner. I drifted into the reading room,
                        glanced idly at the long row of current magazines. In full view lay the
                        weekly purveyor of social news, a paper I had not looked at half a dozen
                        times in my life, and then only because some one had asked me to read a
                        particular paragraph. The week's issue of this scandal monger had
                        just come in. I threw back the cover, let my glance drop upon the page. I
                        was hardly aware that I was readingfor my thoughts were elsewherewhen I
                        became vaguely conscious that the print had some relation to me. I reread
                        it; it was a veiled attack upon Edna. All unsuspected by her husbandso the
                        story  ranshe had come to America to divorce
                        him that she might marry a German nobleman of almost royal rank. A voice
                        close beside me said:
                    "What is it amuses you so in that dirty sheet?"
                    It was Armitage. I started guiltily. Then my common sense asserted itself,
                        and I pointed to the paragraph. When he had read it I said:
                    "Who's the German? I'm not well enough up on the
                        nobility to be able to guess, though it's probably plainly
                        told."
                    "The Count von Biestrich," said he.
                    "Thanks," said I, no wiser than before, and we went up to
                        play bridge.
                    A year or so before I might possibly have talked freely with Armitage; but
                        the day of our closest intimacy had passed. He was still my intimate friend;
                        I was his with several large reservations. Why? Chiefly because when he
                        passed the critical age his mind took the turn for the worse. At forty to
                        forty-five a man begins to reap his harvest. Armitage had many and varied
                        interests, but the one that affected his nature most profoundly was women.
                        He mocked at them; he was always inventing or relating stories about them of
                        the more or less gamey sort. But, somewhat like his pretensions of disdain
                        for birth and fashion, his wordy scorn of women concealed a slavish weakness
                        for them. After forty this began to disclose itself in his features. Their
                        handsome intellectuality began to be marred by a sensual heaviness; and
                        presently his wit degenerated toward a repellent coarseness. It takes
                        delicate juggling to make filth attractive. After forty a man does well to
                        be careful  how he attempts it; for, after
                        forty, the hand loses its lightness. I rather avoided Armitage; not that I
                        was squeamish, but my sense of humor somehow rarely has responded to rude
                        rootings and pawings in the garbage barrel.
                    About an hour after dinner Edna called me to the telephone and asked me to
                        come to her. I found her in high excitement, her color vivid, her manner
                        nervous beyond its natural vivacity even as now expanded upon the best
                        Continental models. "I got rid of my guests," said she,
                        "and sent for you as soon as I could. Have you heard?"
                    "About von Biestrich?" said I.
                    "It is hideous!hideous!" she cried. "I who have
                        kept my name unsulliedI who have"
                    "I'm sure of that," I interrupted.
                        "I'm dead tired and, if you'll excuse me,
                        I'll go home."
                    She caught me by the arm. "Godfrey, you think this was what I had in
                        mind. I swear to you"
                    "I'm sure you've been all that a wife is expected
                        to be," said I, in my usual manner of good-natured raillery.
                        "And I'm also sure you would wait until you were free, and
                        would deliberate very carefully before deciding"
                    "Godfrey, how can you!" cried she, in her most exaggerated
                        tone for outraged spirituality. "Have you no
                        heart? Have you no respect for meyour wife, the mother of your
                        daughter?"
                    "Have I not said I did not suspect you?" remonstrated I.
                        "Why so agitated, my dear? Do you wish to make me begin to
                        suspect?"
                    
                    She shrank and began to cool down. "I've never had such an
                        experience before," she apologized. "I don't know
                        how to take it."
                    "It's nothingnothing," I declared.
                    "I give you my word of honor that if I were free I should not
                        consider marrying that German."
                    "I believe you." I put out a friendly hand. "Good
                        night."
                    "This ends all talk of divorce," said she.
                    I dropped my hand. "I don't see that the situation is
                        changed in the least."
                    "That's because you are not a woman," replied she.
                        "You can't appreciate how I feel."
                    "You wished to be free before this paragraph appeared. You still
                        wish to be free."
                    "Oh, how can you be so insensible!" cried
                        she, all unstrung again and, I could not but see, genuinely so. "I
                            never could face the scandal of a divorce. I
                        didn't realize. It would kill me. How did Hilda
                        face it? and all these other nice women? I should hide and never show my
                        face again."
                    She was agitating me so wildly that I felt I could not much longer conceal
                        it. "I must go," said I, pretending to yawn.
                        "Sleep on it. Perhaps to-morrow you'll feel
                        differently."
                    She tried to detain me, but I broke away and fled. To be almost free and then
                        to have freedom snatched away! Not out of reach, but where it can be reached
                        easily if one will simply stretch out his hand somewhat ruthlessly. By no
                        means so ruthless as my wife had been a score of times in gaining her ends
                        without regard  to me. Why not be ruthless?
                        Had she not been ruthless? Had she not given me the right to compel her to
                        free me? More, did she not herself wish to be free? And was she not now
                        restrained, not by consideration for me, not by any decent instinct
                        whatsoever, but solely by a snobbish groveling fear of public opinion?a
                        senseless fear, too?
                    We are constantly criticising peopleby way of patting ourselves on the
                        backbecause they take what they want regardless of the feelings of others. A
                        form of self-righteousness as shameless as common; for we happen not to
                        fancy the things they show themselves inconsiderate and swinish about.
                        Butwhen we really do want a thingwhat then? How industrious we become in
                        appeal to consciencethat most perfect of courtiersto show us how just and
                        right it is that we should have this thing we want! Having
                        set myself drastically to cure self-fooling years beforewhen first I
                        realized how dangerous it is and how common a cause of failure and ruinI was
                        unable to conceal from myself the cruelty of forcing Edna to divorce me. My
                        conscienceas sly a sophist and flatterer as yours, gentle readermy
                        conscience could not convince me. Cruel things I had never donethat is, not
                        directly. Of course I, like all men of action, had again and again been
                        compelled to do them indirectly. But not by my own direct act had I ever
                        made any human being suffer. I would not begin now. I would not commit the
                        stupidity of trying to found my happiness upon the wretchedness of another.
                        I could feel the withering scorn that would blaze in Mary
                        Kirkwood's honest eyes if I should go  to her after having freed myself by force, and she should find it out. I
                        see your sarcastic smile, gentle reader, as I thus ingenuously confess the
                        selfish fear that was the hidden spring of my virtue. Your smile betrays
                        your shallowness. If you knew human nature you would know that all real motives are selfish. The differences of character in
                        human beings are not differences between selfish and unselfish. They are
                        differences between petty, short-sighted selfishness and broad, farsighted
                        selfishness.
                    When I saw Edna again she was still wavering. She had come to America with
                        her mind made up for divorce, if I could by hook or by crook be induced to
                        consent. She had been frightened by this attack upon her frightened as only
                        those who live a life of complete self-deception can be frightened by a
                        sudden and public holding up of the mirror to reflect their naked selves.
                        She was, of course, easily able to convince herself that her own motives in
                        seeking a divorce were fine and high and self-martyring. But she could now
                        see no way to convince others. In the public estimation she saw she would be
                        classed with Lady Blankenship, with Mrs. Ramsdell, with all the other women
                        who had got divorces to better themselves socially or financially.
                    Instead of dying out the scandal grew. The daily papers took up the hints in
                        the society journal's veiled paragraph, had long cabled accounts of
                        Count von Biestrich, of his attentions to Edna, told when and where they had
                        been guests at the same chteaus and country houses, made it appear that they
                        had been no  better than they should be for
                        nearly a year. Edna was prostrated.
                    "There's only one answer to these attacks," she
                        said to me. "You must give up your apartment and move to this
                        hotel. We must open the house and live in it together and entertain
                        together."
                    I was not unprepared. I had threshed out the whole matter with myself, had
                        made my choice between the two courses open to meor, rather, had forced
                        myself to see the truth that there was in decency but the one course.
                        "Very well," said I to herand that was all.
                    I moved to the Plaza the same day; I was seen constantly with her; I did my
                        best to show the world that all was serene between us. In fact, if you saw
                        us during those scandal-clouded days you may have thought us a couple on a
                        honeymoon. Behind the scenes we quarreledabout anything, about everything,
                        about nothingas people do when forced to play in public the farce of billing
                        and cooing lovers. Especially if one of them has not the faintest glimmer of
                        a sense of humor. But in public
                    The newspapers soon had to drop their campaign of slander by insinuation.
                    So it came to pass that by the opening of the season Edna and I were
                        installed in the big house, decidedly improved now thanks to the collecting
                        both of ideas and of things she had done abroad. And we were giving all
                        kinds of parties, with me taking part to an extent I should have laughed at
                        beforehand as impossible. She had become so irritating to me that the mere
                        sight of her put me in a rage. Have you ever 
                        been forced into intimate daily contact with a nature that is thoroughly
                        artificialafter you have discovered its artificiality, its lack of
                        sincerity, its vanity and pretense and sex trickery? There is, as we all
                        know, in everyone of us a streak of artificiality, of self-consciousness, a
                        fondness for posing to seem better than we are. But somewhere beneath the
                        pose there is usually a core of sincerity, a genuine individuality, perhaps
                        a poor thing but still a real thing. It may be there was this reality
                        somewhere in Edna. I can only say that I was never granted a sight of it.
                        And I rather suspect that she, like most of the fashion-rotted women and
                        men, had lost by a process of atrophy through suppression and disuse the
                        last fragment of reality. Had Gabriel's trumpet sounded and the
                        great light from the Throne revealed the secrets of all hearts, it would
                        have penetrated in her to nothing but posing within posing.
                    I shall get no sympathy from man or womanor fellow-beastafter talking thus of
                        a woman and a lady. It is the convention to speak gallant lies to and about
                        womenand to treat them as if they were beneath contempt. So my habit of
                        treating them well and speaking the truth about them will be condemned and
                        denounced with the triple curse. WellI shall try to live through it.
                    Except in occasional outbursts when her rude candor toward me would anger me
                        into retort in kind, I concealed my feeling about her. I knew it was just,
                        yet I was ashamed of it. Our quarrels were all surface affairsoutbursts of
                        irritationthe blowing off of surplus steam, not the bursting of the boiler
                        and the wrecking  of the machinery. If you
                        happen to take into your employ any of the servants we had in those days
                        Edna's maids or my valet or any other of the menials so placed that
                        they could spy upon our innermost privacyI am confident that in return for
                        your adroit, searching questionings you will hear we were no more
                        inharmonious than the usual married couple past the best-foot-foremost
                        stage. I did not swear at her; she did not throw bric--brac at me. And once,
                        I remember, when I had a bad headache she stayed home from the operaon a
                        Monday night, tooto read to me. It is true the new dress in which she had
                        expected to show herself was not ready. But that is a detail for a cynic to
                        linger upon.
                    Three months of New York, and she was bored to extinction. I had confidently
                        been expecting this. I watched the signs of it with gnawing anxiety, for I
                        was very near to the end of my good behavior. If possible I wished to stay
                        on and help her toward a rational frame of mindone in which she would see
                        that divorce was the only possible solution of our impossible situation. But
                        I began to fear I should have to give up and flyto hunt or to inspect
                        western mines and railways. She was bored by the women; they seemed shallow
                        dabblers in culture after the European women. She was offended by their
                        nervousness about their position; it made them seem common in contrast with
                        the Europeans, born swells and impregnably ensconced. She was bored by the
                        menby their fewness, by the insufferable dullness of those fewall of them
                        feeble imitations of the European type of elegant loafer.
                    
                    "These men have no subtlety," she cried. "They
                        have no conversation. When they're alone with a womanyou should
                        hear them try to flatter. They are as different from the European men
                        asas"
                    "As a fence-painter from an artist," I suggested.
                    "Quite that," said she, and I saw her making a mental note
                        of the comparison for future useone of her best tricks. "Really, I
                        prefer the business men to them. But one cannot get the business men. What a
                        country, where everyone who has any brains is at work!"
                    "If you are unhappy here, why not go abroad?"said I
                        amiably. "Margot is always waiting for you."
                    "But how can I go abroad?"railed she.
                        "There'll be another outbreak of scandal. Was ever a woman
                        so wretchedly placed! What shall I do! If I had some one
                        to advise me!"
                    It was interesting to hear her, determined, selfreliant character though she
                        was, thus confess to the universal weakness of the female sex. Women, not
                        trained to act for themselves, can hardly overcome this fundamental defect.
                        That is why you so often see an apparently, and probably, superior woman
                        weaken and yield where a distinctly ordinary man would be strong and would
                        march ahead. The trouble with Edna was that she had no definite man behind
                        her, spurring her on to action. In all she had done from the beginning of
                        our married life she had felt that she had me to fall back on, should
                        emergency arisean unconscious dependence, one she would have scornfully
                        denied, but none  the less real. In this
                        affair there was no man to fall back on.
                    I saw this. Yet I refrained from giving her the support she needed and all
                        but asked. Her cry, "If I had some one to advise me,"
                        meant, "If I had some one to give me the courage to act."
                        I knew what it meant. But eager though I was to be quit of her, I would not
                        give her the thrust toward divorce that would have put into her the courage
                        of anger and of the feeling that she was a martyr to my brutality. Why did I
                        hold myself in check? Candidly, I do not know. I distrust the suggestion
                        that it may have been due to essential goodness of heart. At any rate, I did
                        restrain myself. Shenaturally enoughmisunderstood; and she proceeded to
                        explain it to the gratifying of her vanity. I saw in her eyes, in her way of
                        treating me, that she thought me her secret adorer, convinced of my
                        unworthiness, of her god-to-mortal superiority; not daring openly to resist
                        her desire to be free from me, but opposing it humbly, silently. I saw that
                        she pitied me. Did this add to my anger? Not in the least. I have a perhaps
                        queer sense of humor. I rather welcomed the chance to get a little amusement
                        out of a situation otherwise dreary and infuriating.
                    Curiously enough, it was Armitage who came to her rescueand to mine.
                    Bob had been in retirement several weeks, having himself rejuvenated by a
                        beauty doctor. You are astonished, gentle reader, perhaps incredulous, that
                        a man of his positionhigh both socially and financially should stoop to such
                        trivialitynot a woman but a  man. And the
                        serious, masculine sort of man he was, I assure you. But you, being a
                        confirmed accepter of the trash written and talked about human nature, do
                        not appreciate what a power physical vanity is in the world. Of course, if
                        you are a man, you know about your own carefully hid physical vanity. But
                        you think it in yourself a virtue, quite natural, not a vanity at all. Bob
                        Armitage was not vain enough to fail to see the beginning of the ravages of
                        time and dissipation. Another man would have looked in the glass and would
                        have seen a reflection ever handsomer as the years went by, would have
                        discovered in the creases and crow's-feet and lengthening wattles a
                        superb beauty of manly strength of character showing at last in the face.
                        Bob was not that sort of fool. He wished to fascinate the ladies; so, he
                        strove to retain the fair insignia of youth as long as he possibly could. He
                        knew as well as the next man that his wealth had value with the women far
                        beyond any degree of beauty or charm. But like most men he wished to feel
                        that he was at least not a "winner "in spite of his
                        personal self; and his young good looks even helped toward the pleasantest
                        of delusionsthat he was loved for himself chiefly.
                    The beauty doctor did well by him, I must say. He looked ten years younger,
                        would have passed in artificial light for a youth of thirty or thereabouts.
                        He reappeared in his haunts, freshened up mentally, too; for physical
                        content reacts powerfully upon the mind, and while it is true that feeling
                        young helps one to look young, it is truer that looking young compels one to
                        feel young.
                    
                    With him came a Prince Frascatoni, head of one of the great families of
                        Italy, one of the few that have retained German titles and estates from the
                        days of the Holy Roman Empire. Frascatoni was sufficiently rich for all
                        ordinary purposes, and could therefore pose as a traveler for pleasure with
                        no matrimonial designs. He was, in fact, poor for a grand
                            seigneur and was on the same business in America that has attracted
                        here every other visiting foreigner of rankexcept those who come for
                        political purposes, and those who come to shoot in the West. And those
                        classes give our fashionable society as wide a berth as they would its
                        middle-class prototype in their home countries.
                    The first time I saw Frascatoniwhen he and Armitage strolled into the reading
                        room of the Federal Club togetherI thought him about the handsomest and, in
                        a certain way, the most distinguished-looking man I had ever seen. He was a
                        black Italiandark olive skin, coal-black hair, dark-gray eyes that seemed
                        black or brown at a glance. They were weary-looking eyes; they gazed at you
                        with the ineffable dreamy satiric repose of a sphinx who has seen the futile
                        human procession march into the grave for countless centuries. He had a slow
                        sweet smile, a manner made superior by the effacement of every trace of
                        superiority. He had the quiet, leisurely voice of one used to being listened
                        to attentively.
                    "Loringthe Prince Frascatoni. Prince, I particularly wish you to
                        know my friend Godfrey Loring. Don't be deceived by his look of the
                        honest simple  youth into thinking him either
                        young or unsophisticated."
                    The prince gave me his hand. As it had also been my habit ever since I
                        learned the valuable trick merely to give my hand, the gesture was a draw.
                        Neither had trapped the other into making an advance. We talked commonplaces
                        of New York sky line, American energy and business enthusiasm for perhaps
                        half an hour. Then we three and some one else, a professional cultivator of
                        millionaires named Chassory, I believe, played bridge and afterwards dined
                        together. It came out sometime during the evening that Frascatoni had met my
                        wife in Rome and in Paris, and that he knew my son-in-lawnot surprising, as
                        the fashionable set is international, and is small enough to be acquainted
                        all round.
                    Armitage must have told him that my wife and I were not altogether
                        inconsolable if we did not see too much of each other. For, the prince,
                        taking Edna in to dinner a few nights later, laid siege at once. I recall
                        noting how he would talk to her in his quiet, leisurely way until she looked
                        at him; then, how his weary eyes would suddenly light up with interestnot
                        with ardor nothing so banal as thatbut a fleeting gleam of interest that was
                        more flattering than the ardor of another man would have been. As
                        Frascatoni, an unusual type, attracted me, I saved myself from boredom by
                        observing him all evening. And it was highly instructive in the art of
                        winningwhether women or men to see how he led her on to try to make that
                        fascinating fugitive gleam reappear in his eyes. I afterwards  discovered that he accompanied the gleam with
                        a peculiar veiled caress of inflection in his calm, even voice a trick that
                        doubly renforced the flattery of the gleam.
                    "What a charming man Prince Frascatoni is," said my wife,
                        when our guests were gone.
                    "Very," said I. "If I were writing a novel
                        I'd make him the heroor the villain."
                    "He is one of the greatest nobles in Europe."
                    "He looks it and acts it," said I.
                    "Why, I thought him very simple and natural," protested
                        she.
                    "Exactly," said I. "So many of the nobles
                        I've met looked and acted like frauds. They seemed afraid it
                        wouldn't be known that they were of the aristocracy."
                    "You are prejudiced," said Edna.
                    "Then why do I size up Frascatoni so well?"
                    "You happen to like him."
                    "But I don't," replied I.
                    "Of course not," said Edna with sarcasm. "He
                        isn't in business."
                    "Precisely," I answered. "He couldn't do
                        anythingbuild a railroad, run a factory, write a book, paint a picture. He
                        and his kind are simply amateurs at life, and their pretense that they could
                        be professionals if they chose ought to deceive nobody. He probably could
                        ride a horse a little worse than a professional jockey, or handle a foil
                        almost as well as a fencing master, or play on the piano or the violin
                        passably. I don't admire that sort of people, and I can't
                        like where I don't admire."
                    
                    Edna yawned and prepared to go up to her own rooms. "I hope
                        he'll stay a while," said she. "And I hope
                        he'll let me see something of him. He's the first ray of
                        interest I've had this winter."
                    "You will see something of him," said I. "He liked
                        you."
                    "You think so? "said she, seating herself on the arm of a
                        chair.
                    "I know it. Unless he finds what he's looking for,
                        he'll attach himself to you."
                    "What is he looking for? "
                    "A very rich wife," said I. "But she must be
                        attractive as well as rich, Armitage tells me. Frascatoni doesn't
                        need money badly enough to annex a frump. And Armitage says that while
                        Englishmen and Germans and the heiress-hunting sort of French don't
                        care a rap what the lady looks like, the Italiansof the old families are
                        rather particular not exacting, but particular. Unless, of course, the
                        fortune is huge."
                    Edna yawned again. That sort of talk either irritated or bored her.
                    Frascatoni was constantly with her thenceforth not pointedly or scandalously
                        so; there are discreet ways of doing those things, and of discretion in all
                        its forms the Italian was a supreme master. The game of man and woman had
                        been his especial game from precocious and maddeningly handsome boyhood. He
                        had learned both by being conquered and by conquering. They say and I
                        believe itthat of all the foreigners a clean Italian nobleman is the most
                        fascinating.
                    
                    The Hungarian or Russian is a wild, barbaric lovemaker, the German a wordy
                        sentimentalist, the Englishman dominates and absorbs, the Frenchman knows
                        how to flatter the most subtly, how to make the woman feel that life with
                        him would be full of interest and charm. But the right sort of Italian
                        combines the best of all these qualities, and adds to them the allure of the
                        unfathomably mysterious. He constantly satisfies yet always baffles. He
                        reveals himself, only to disclose in the inner wall of what seemed to be his
                        innermost self a strangely carved door a jar.
                    My first intimation of what Frascatoni was about came from my wife. Not
                        words, of course, but actions. She abruptly ceased quarreling, rebuking,
                        reproaching, scoffing. She soothed, sympathized, agreed. She became as sweet
                        as she had formerly been. I was puzzled, and waited for light. It came with
                        her next move. She began to talk of going back to Europe, to deplore that
                        scandal mongers would not let her. She began to chaff me on my love of a
                        bachelor's life, on my dislike of married life. She said with
                        reproachful, yet smiling gentleness, that I made her feel ashamed to stay
                        on.
                    "Admit," said she, "that you'd be better
                        pleased if I were in Guinea."
                    "You oughtn't have given me so many years of
                        freedom," said I.
                    "You'd have been glad if I had gone on and gotten a
                        divorce," pursued she.
                    My drowsing soul startled and listened. "I was willing that you
                        should do as you liked," said I. "Divorce  is a matter of more importance to the woman
                        than to the manjust as marriage is."
                    "And it's a sensible thing, tooisn't it?
                        "
                    "Very," said I.
                    "Godfrey, would you honestly be willing?."
                    "I'd not lay a straw in your way."
                    "What nonsense we're talking! "cried she, with a
                        nervous laugh. "And yet there's no denying that we
                        don't get on together. I see how trying it is to you to have me
                        about."
                    "And you want to be free and living abroad."
                    "I wonder how much I'd really mind the scandal,"
                        pursued she. "I don't care especially about these New York
                        people. And at the worst what harm could they do me?
                        "
                    
                    "None," said I.
                    "They could only talk. How they'd blame me! "
                    "Behind your back, perhaps," said I. "Unless they
                        thought I was to blamewhich is more likely."
                    "You talk of divorce as if it were nothing."
                    "It's merely a means to an end," said I.
                        "You've got only the one life, you know."
                    "And I'm no longer so dreadfully young.
                        Though, I heard that Armitage said the other day he would never dream I was
                        over twenty-eight if he didn't know."
                    She laughed with the pleasure we all take in a compliment that is genuine;
                        for she knew as well as did Armitage that she could pass for twenty-eightand
                        a radiant twenty-eighteven in her least lovely hour.
                    "No one has youth to waste," observed I. "In your
                        heart you wish to be freedon't you? "
                    
                    "We are not suited to each other, Godfrey," said she with
                        gentle friendliness.
                    "There's not a doubt of that," said I.
                    "Why should we spoil each other's lives? I conceal it from
                        you, but I am so unhappy here."
                    "You can't blame me" said II.
                        "I'm not detaining you."
                    A long silence, then she said: "Suppose I were to consent"
                        I laughed, she reddened, corrected herself: "Suppose we were to
                        decide to do itwhat then? "
                    "Whya divorce," said I.
                    "Can't those things be done quietly? "
                    "Certainly. No publicity until the decree is entered and the papers
                        sealed."
                    "Does that mean no scandal beyond just the fact? "
                    "No scandal at all. Just the fact, and some newspaper
                        comment."
                    "And we needn't be here."
                    Not then."
                    "Would it take long? "
                    I reflected. "Let me seeif you begin action say within a month, the
                        divorce would take I could have it pushed through in another month or so,
                        and thenby next fall you'd be free."
                    "But doesn't one have to have grounds for divorce, beside
                        not wanting to be married? "
                    "All that easily arranges itself," said I.
                    She lapsed into a deep study, I furtively watching her. I saw an expression
                        of fright, at the daring of her thoughts, gatherfright, yet fascination,
                        too. Said she in a low voice: "Godfrey, are you serious? "
                    
                    
                    "Entirely so," was my careless reply.
                        "Aren't you?"
                    "I don't know whether I am or not.... I am wretchedhere! "
                    "All you have to do is to say the word. We don't in the
                        least need each other, and mutual need is the only respectable excuse for
                        marriage. And I must tell you, I'll not stand for any more of this
                        social nonsense that compels me to participate. I'm done."
                    She looked at me pityingly. Our season had been a brilliant success, yet I
                        remained unconverted, coarsely unsympathetic. "If I should decide
                        toto do itwhat then? "
                    "Nothing. I'd go away. The rest would be for the
                        lawyers."
                    She looked at me dazedly. "I'll seeI'll
                        see," she said, and went to her own part of the house.
                    A week passed. Frascatoni sailed for home, sending by her his polite regrets
                        at not having seen me before his departure. I waited, confident. I knew she
                        had a definite goal at last, and, therefore, a definite purpose. Aside from
                        the danger of frightening her back by showing my own eagerness there was the
                        matter of property. I was willing to pay a good round price for freedom. I
                        have always hated money wrangles; I had never had one with her, and I did
                        not purpose to have. On the other hand, that is, on her side, she would have
                        given me short shrift had it not been that she wished a slice of my
                        fortuneand a generous sliceto add to her own. I've not a doubt that
                        the fierce social campaign she put me through that winter was not so much
                        for her own pleasure,  though she delighted in
                        it, as for goading me to demand a divorce, and, so, enable her to ease her
                        conscience and to drive a better bargain.
                    My seeming indifference, combined with her now trembling eagerness to be free
                        and away, soon forced her hand. The break came on a Sunday afternoon. Life
                        is so inartisticthat is, from the standpoint of the cheap novelists and
                        playwrights with their dramatic claptrap. Here is how the grand crash was
                        precipitated:
                    Said I: "Well, I'm off for a few weeks'
                        fishing."
                    "You're not starting now? "said she.
                    "Day after to-morrow," said I.
                    "But I've made several engagements for you."
                    "Get a substitute," said I. "No one will miss
                        me."
                    "How inconsiderate you are! "
                    "That's pretty goodafter all I've borne this
                        winter."
                    "You are insufferable! "cried she.
                    "Thenwhy suffer me? "said I coolly.
                    "If you torture me much further, I won't,"
                        retorted she.
                    "I think I'll clear out to-night," said I.
                    "With people coming to dinner to-morrow! A big dinner!"
                    "Yesto-night," said I. "I had forgotten
                        to-morrow's horrors."
                    "If I were free! "
                    "That's easy."
                    "YesI willbe free! "
                    "I'll send you a lawyer at eleven to-morrow
                        morn-ing."
                    
                    She was pale and trembling. The quarrel was a mere pretensea pretext so
                        flimsy that each knew the other was not deceived by it. Her tones of anger,
                        my tones of abrupt and contemptuous indifference were obviously false and
                        forced. As I left the room I cast a furtive glance at her, saw that her
                        daring was so terrifying her that she could hardly keep a plausible front of
                        haughty anger.
                    It was several hours before I could get away from the house, though I made
                        all haste. Every moment I expected some word from her. But none came. I sent
                        the lawyer the following morning. I was surprised when later in the day, by
                        the necessary roundabout way, I learned that she had actually consented.
                    She showed that she had made an exhaustive study of the subject, like the
                        wise campaigner she was. She thoroughly understood how to proceed; for, she
                        told her lawyerthe one of my lawyers whom I assigned to her that my coldness
                        to her had filled her with suspicion and that she wished detectives
                        employed. She needed no coaching whatever; he found her prepared on every
                        point.
                    How far had matters gone between her and Frascatoni? Not so far as you
                        imagine; but perhaps farther than I think. Both the husband and the world
                        are poor judges in those affairs.
                    I shall pass over the suit. It was commonplace throughout. There has been
                        much speculation as to the person named by my wife in the sealed papers. I
                        can truthfully say that I know as little about that person  as does the public. It is usually so, I
                        believe, in these arranged suits. I did not appear at any of the hearings,
                        all of them held secretly. Nor did Edna appear, though I believe that, to
                        comply with the forms of law, she made some sort of deposition in the
                        presence of the lawyers for both sides. It so happened that the first and
                        only public stepthe judge's ordering of the decree of divorcewas
                        published on the same day with the news of a big prize fight, a sensational
                        murder, and a terrific earthquake. So, we got off with little public
                        attention. At the time the law provided that a decree should not become
                        valid for six months. We were nominally free; but actually neither could
                        marry again for six months and meanwhile either of us could reopen the
                        caseand she could by merely requesting put an end to it and restore her
                        status as my wife. So, I was free unless Edna should change her mind
                        sometime within the six months.
                    Edna was in London and I in Paris when the news came. Curiously enough, as I
                        stood in the doorway of the Ritz restaurant, that evening, looking about for
                        a table where I could dine alone, in came Prince Frascatoni with another
                        Italian whose name I cannot recall. I bowed to Frascatoni. He said:
                    "You are alone, sir? "
                    "Unluckily, yes," replied I.
                    He introduced his companion and suggested that we three dine at the same
                        table. "Why not share our dinner? "said he. "I
                        can easily change my order. Perhaps you will go with us afterwards to some
                        amusing little plays in a Montmartre theater? "
                    
                    I accepted the courteous invitation. The situation appealed to my sense of
                        humor. Also I knew that Edna toward whom I now felt most kindlywould be
                        delighted to read in the papers: "Prince Frascatoni had as his
                        guest at dinner last night Mr. Godfrey Loring." It would put an
                        immediate stop to any tendency to gossip. As the prince did not speak of my
                        former wife I assumed that he had heard the news.
                    When we were separating I said: "You will dine with me to-morrow
                        night? "
                    "Unfortunately I'm leaving town in the morning,"
                        said he.
                    I thought I could guess which way he was journeying. With perhaps a twinkle
                        in my eyes, I said: "So soon? Wellthank you, and good-byand good
                        luck."
                    I thought I saw a sardonic smile flit over his face. He probably imagined I
                        was in the dark as to his maneuverings and designs and smiled to himself as
                        he thought, "How differently this American would be treating me if
                        he knew!" Do not fancy, because Edna had no charm for me, I thought
                        it strange she should have charm for other men. Nothing could be further
                        from the truth. I appreciated her attractive points perhaps more than any
                        other man possibly could. Also, I appreciatedand still appreciatethat
                        another man would not be so peculiarly annoyed by her lack of any sense of
                        humor as I was. Indeed, had not circumstances forced me into the acutely
                        critical mood toward her, I doubt not I could have continued to bear with
                        that lack, though it made conversation with her all but impossible and
                        precipitated quarrels without number.
                    
                    Beyond question the strongest and most enduring hold a man can get upon a
                        woman or a woman upon a man is the physical. Weeven the least intellectual
                        of usare something more than physical; but the physical must be contented
                        first, and must remain contented, because we are first of all physical. The
                        physical is the fundamental; but it takes more than foundations to make a
                        house. And a marriage such as ours was could not endure. Each of us had but
                        the one charm for the other. It wore itself out like a fire that is not
                        supplied with fuel.
                    If I had not fallen in love with another woman, there might have remained a
                        feeling for Edna that would have made me jealous, perhaps domineering toward
                        her. As it was, I viewed her calmly; when I said "good luck
                        "to Frascatoni, I meant it. I hoped he would make Edna happy, for,
                        I wished her well.
                    Through Armitage I had provided myself with Mary Kirkwood's
                        addressan apartment overlooking the Pare Monceau which she and Neva
                        Armstrong had taken for the spring months. That very afternoon I went to
                        leave cards. As I feared she was not at home. "But," said
                        Mrs. Armstrong, "you may find her walking in the park with Hartley
                        Beechman."
                    "Oh, is he here?" said I.
                    "Naturally," replied she.
                    You may picture me as suddenly dashed down by this word whose meaning there
                        was no mistaking. If so, you have discovered little about me in these pages.
                        Life had made me a competent judge of the situation that is really hopeless,
                        the situation where to struggle is folly, and that situation which seems
                        hopeless to the small of earth,  accustomed to
                        defeat in their desires, but seems only difficult to the other sort of human
                        beings.
                    "He has taken a studio over in the Latin quarter,"
                        continued Mrs. Armstrong. "We are all going back together in
                        July."
                    Mrs. Armstrong is an attractive womansingularly so for one who is obviously
                        wholly absorbed in her husband. She has the sort of personality her
                        paintings prepare you to expect. But I had difficulty in concealing my
                        impatience to get away. I strolled several times through the park, which is
                        not large, before I finally came upon Mary and Beechman seated in one of the
                        less-frequented paths. As I was moving directly toward them, both saw me at
                        the same instant. Her welcoming smile was radiant. I did not notice his, but
                        I assume it was more reserved.
                    Never had I seen her looking so well. You may say what you please, but an
                        American woman who knows how to dress, in touch with a French dressmaker who
                        is rather artist than dressmaker, is the supreme com bination for aesthetic
                        beauty. Mrs. Kirkwood, of the ivory skin and the coal-black hair, was a
                        thrilling sight to see in her white dress and big black hat, with that
                        background of fresh spring foliage and late afternoon light. Her eyes and
                        her smile, I noted for the first time, had somewhat the same quality as
                        Frascatoni'sthe weary eyes, the slow sweet smile.
                    "Mr. Loring!" she cried, rising and extending her hand
                        impulsively. "I thought I was never to see you again."
                    I hid my emotion and greeted her, then Beechman, in  my habitual manner which, they tell me, is the reverse of
                        effusive. I suppose, when I am deeply moved, its lack of cordiality becomes
                        even more pronounced. After a few minutes of the talk necessary among
                        acquaintances who have not met in a long time Beechman rose.
                    "You and Beechman will dine with me, I hope?" I said.
                        "Mrs. Armstrong says she will go if you can."
                    It was arranged and, as the day was warm, d'Armenonville was fixed
                        upon as the place. "Until half past eight," said Beechman
                        as he left. Mary and I sat silent watching him walk away. A superb figure of
                        young manhood, supremely fortunate in that his body was an adequate
                        expression of a strong and simple nature.
                    As he passed from view at the turn of the walk I transferred my gaze to her.
                        Her eyes slowly lowered, and a faint flush came into her cheeks. Said I:
                    "You saw the newsabout me?"
                    "Hartley and I were talking of it as you appeared."
                    "You were not surprised?"
                    "Yesand no," replied she, with constraint and some
                        confusion. "A year or so ago Ipeople thought you and she hadhad
                        drifted apart. Then it looked as though you had come together again. It
                        seemed the natural thing. She is beautiful and has so much charm."
                    "She was unhappy in America. She wished to be free."
                    Mary looked at me reflectively. "You are notin-consolable, I
                        see," said she with a smile of faint raillery. "My brother
                        has often told me about youhow indifferent you are to women. Perhaps that is
                        why you are attractive to them."
                    
                    "Am I?" said I. "I did not know it."
                    "You are terribly impersonal," she went on laughingly.
                        "Last summer Iwell, I was notthat is, not exactlytrying to flirt
                        with you. But your absolute unconsciousness of me as a woman was often
                        verybaffling."
                    I laughed. "You thought that?"
                    "How could I help seeing it? Why, you treated me precisely as if I
                        were another man. Not that I didn't like it, on the whole. A woman
                        gets tired of being always on guard." She smiled at herself.
                        "That sounds horribly conceited. But you know what I mean. The men
                        never lose a chance to practice. Then, toowell, if a woman has the
                        reputation of being rich she need not flatter herself that it is her charms
                        that do all the drawing."
                    "That's the supreme curse of moneyit all but cuts one off
                        from love and friendship. Fortunately it, to a great extent, takes the place
                        of them."
                    "I don't like to hear you say that," said she.
                    "How many poor people get love and friendship?" replied I.
                        "Isn't it the truth that there is littlevery, very
                        littlereal love or friendship in the world? All I meant was that money, and
                        the independence and com fort and the counterfeit of affection it brings,
                        are better than nothing at all."
                    "Oh, I see," said she. "You are so sensibleand you
                        don't cant. That was why I liked to talk with you. At first I
                        thought you cynical and hard. That's the first impression plain
                        good sense makes. We are used to hearing only shallow
                        sentimentality."
                    
                    "The unending flapdoodle," said I.
                    "Flapdoodle," agreed she. "ThenI began to discover
                        that you were anything but hardthat you looked at people as they are, and
                        liked them for themselves, not for what they pretended to be. I was
                        beginning to trust youto venture timidly in the direction of being my
                        natural selfwhen you left."
                    "Wellhere I am again," said I. "And we start in
                        afresh."
                    She smiled with embarrassment. "Yes," she said
                        hesitatingly. "But the circumstances have changed
                        somewhat."
                    I know full well now what I should have said. I should have replied,
                        "Yeswe are both almost free but soon will be altogether freeI in
                        six months, you as soon as you break your engagement." That would
                        have been bold and intelligentfor it is always intelligent to make the issue
                        clear at the earliest possible moment. But I did not speak. I remained
                        silent. Why? Because as I was talking with her I was realizing that I had
                        been deceiving myself in a curious fashion. I had been so concentratedly in
                        love with her Gentle reader, I see the mocking smile on your shallowly
                        sentimental face. You are ridiculing a love that could have such restraint
                        as minethat could bear with Edna, could wait, could refrain from any of the
                        familiar much-admired impetuosities and follies. You cannot understand. In
                        this day when men no longer regard or feel their responsibilities in taking
                        a more or less helpless woman to wife, your sense of the decencies is
                        utterly corrupted. But let me say that no matter how ardently and
                        romantically a man  may conduct himself, a
                        woman would do well to take care how she trusts him if he has a bad or even
                        a doubtful record as to his way of meeting his responsibilities of whatever
                        sort. That kind of love may "listen good," but it does not
                        "live good." Howeveras I was about to say when your smile
                        interrupted me, my all-absorbing love for Mary Kirkwood had misled me into
                        assuming, with no reason whatsoever, that she understood all, that she knew
                        I was eager to come to her, and would come as soon as I could. You will say
                        this was absurd. Granted. But is not a man in love always absurd? You will
                        say it was egotistical. Granted. But is not a man in love always
                        egotistical? It is not the reali ties but the delusions that keep us going;
                        and in those long months of waiting, of hoping often against hope, I had to
                        have a delusion to keep me going. But now, her friendly, simply friendly,
                        way of talking to me made me see that I had her yet to win, that I could not
                        speak out directly as I had planned. You, who prob ably know women well, may
                        say that this was a mis take. Perhaps. Nevertheless I could not have done
                        otherwise.
                    You will say that women do not know their own minds, but have to be told. I
                        admit it. You will say my silence was timidity. I admit it. I could not talk
                        of love to a woman until I was sure she wished to hear. I had the timidity
                        of the man to whom woman and love are serious matters; the timidity unknown
                        to the man who makes love to every passible female at whom he has a chance;
                        the timidity which all women profess to approve, but which, I more than
                        suspect, appeals only to  the jaded palate of
                        the woman who has long made love and passion her profession.
                    As Beechman was busy with a novel I had everything my own way without
                        strategy during those following days. There are a thousand attractive places
                        to go in and near Paris, and I was resourceful in contriving excursions for
                        the days when there was no chance of seeing only her. Almost every day the
                        London papers or the Paris Herald printed something about
                        Edna and the brilliant season she was having in London; often not far away
                        from her name in a list of guests was the name of Prince Frascatoni. My own
                        activities, more Bohemian as was my taste and the taste of my friendsand I
                        may say the taste of civilized and intelligent Parismy activities were not
                        recorded in the papers. I fancied they were unobserved. I was soon to be
                        undeceived.
                    I wonder who the people are that write anonymous lettersand give anonymous
                        "tips" to society journals? Every once in a while by
                        mischanceoften by my having made a remark that was misinterpreted into
                        something malicious or low, utterly foreign to my real meaningI have had
                        some fellow-being suddenly unveil a noisome corner in his or her soul for
                        confidently awaited sympathy; and I have almost literally shrunk back in my
                        horror at the cesspool of coarseness, or at the vicious envy. Have you had
                        that experience? No doubt scattered among us ordinary folk, neither
                        particularly good nor particularly bad, well rather than ill-disposed and
                        amiable, if riot too severely tried or temptedno doubt, scattered among us
                        there are not a few of these swine souls or snake souls, hid beneath a
                        pleasant smile and  fine raiment. And these
                        are they who give off the foulness of the anonymous letters and the
                        anonymous tip.
                    In one of the minor London society papers appeared this paragraph which I am
                        sure I quote word for word: 
                            "American Paris is much amused these
                                beautifully fine spring days with the ardent love-making of a
                                recently divorced railway 'baron.' The lady is
                                herself a divorcee of several years standing and is supposed to be
                                engaged to a famous young liter ary man who is all unaware of what
                                is going on."
                        
                    
                    I know of five copies of this journal that were mailed with the paragraph
                        marked. The five were received by Edna, Margot, myself, Mary Kirkwood, and
                        Hartley Beechman. I have often mentally gone through the list of my
                        acquaintances in search of the person who was responsible for this thing. I
                        have some extremely unpleasant characters in that list. But I have never
                        been able to suspect who did it. Not improbably the guilty person is some
                        one in other respects not a bad sortfor almost any given cut from that vast
                        universal, human nature, contains something of everything.
                    I had an engagement with Mary Kirkwood to walk in the Bois and have tea the
                        afternoon of the day this paragraph reached me. When I arrived at her apart
                        ment she came down ready to go. Her costume was so lovely and I so delighted
                        in her that I did not imme diately note the heavy circles round her eyes nor
                        the drawn expression of her mouth. I did not dream that she knew of the
                        paragraph. I had read it and had dismissed  it
                        from my mind. The anonymous letter and the anonymous newspaper attack were
                        old familiar stories to me, as they are to every man who attains distinction
                        in active life. But as we drove toward the Bois I happened to catch a
                        glimpse of her by way of the mirror in the frame of the taxi. I saw the
                        evidence of sufferingand the wistful, weary look in her beautiful eyes.
                    "What is it?" said I. "You have had bad
                        news?"
                    "Yes," replied she.
                    "Can I help?"
                    "Don't let's talk of it now," said she.
                        "Wait until we are in the woods."
                    Soon after we passed the entrance gates we descended and rambled away over
                        the not too even ground, along the indistinct paths under the fascinating
                        little trees. It was a gorgeous, perfumed May day. You know the Boishow
                        lovely it is, how artfully it mingles the wild and the civilized, suggesting
                        nature as a laughing nymph with tresses half bound, half free, with graceful
                        young form half clad, half nude. We rambled on and on, and after half an
                        hour seated ourselves where there were leaves and the slim graceful trunks
                        on every side and the sound of falling water like the musical voice of the
                        sunbeams.
                    Mary drew a long sigh. "I feel better," she said.
                    I looked at her. "You are better. You have shaken
                        it off."
                    She met my gaze. "This is the last time," she said. She
                        looked away, repeated softly, thoughtfully, "the last
                        time."
                    "The last time?"
                    
                    "We are not going to see each other any more. It is being
                        misunderstood."
                    I glanced quickly at her, and I knew she had read the paragraph.
                        "That miserable scandal sheet!" said I. "No one
                        sees itand if they did why should we notice anything so
                        ridiculous?"
                    She did not answer immediately. After a while she said: "Perhaps I
                        ought not to say it, butHartley is sensitive. A copy of the paper got to
                        him."
                    "One to me. One to you. One to him."
                    "No matter," said she. "The mischief is
                        done."
                    "You do not give up a friend lightly," rejoined I. The time
                        to speak was at hand; I welcomed it.
                    "He has asked me to give you up," said
                        she simply. "And I shall do it."
                    "But he has no right to ask such a thing," pro tested I.
                    "Yeshe has. He and I are engagedyou knew that?"
                    "I imagined there was some sort of an engage ment," said I,
                        still waiting for the right opening.
                    "There is only one sort of engagement possible with me,"
                        replied she, with a certain gentle reproach.
                    "I know that," said I. "But I remember the talk we
                        had on the yacht."
                    A flush overspread her paleness for a moment. Then she rose from the little
                        rustic iron chair. "We must go," said she.
                    "Wait," said I. And I made a tactless, a stupid beginning:
                        "You can't deny that you do not love him."
                    
                    She turned coldly away and walked on, I following. "I think
                        I'll not stop for tea," she said. "Will you hail
                        the first taxi we meet?"
                    "You are offendedMary?" I said. What a blundering fool love
                        does make of a man!unless he makes a fool of it.
                    She shook her head. "Nonot offended. But when a subject comes up
                        about which we may not talk there is nothing to do but drop it."
                    In my desperation I reached for the right chord and struck it. "Do
                        you know," said I, "why I left the yacht
                        abruptly?"
                    She halted, gave me a swift, frightened glance. The color flooded her face,
                        then fled.
                    "Yesthat was why," said I. "AndI've come
                        as soon as I could."
                    "Oh, why, why didn't you tell
                        me?" cried she. Then, before I could answer, "I
                        don't mean that. I understand." Then, with a wild look
                        around, "What am I saying?"
                    "I've come for you, Mary," I went on.
                        "And you are not going to rush into folly a second timea greater
                        folly. Foryou do not love himand you will care for me. You are right, we
                        can't discuss himyou and him. But we can, and must, discuss you and
                        me."
                    "I shall not see you again," said she, looking at me with
                        tranquil eyes that would have daunted me had I not known her so well,
                        understood her so wellwhich is only another way of saying, had I not loved
                        her so well.
                    "Why have you been seeing me day after day, when you knew that I
                        loved you"
                    
                    "I did not know it," replied she. "I did not think
                        I could move you in the leastbeyond a friendly liking."
                    An inflection in her voice made me suddenly realize. "You came
                        because it made you happy to come!" I cried triumphantly. I caught
                        her hand. "You do care, Mary!"
                    She drew her hand away resolutely. "I shall keep my
                        promise," she said coldly. "I wish to hear no
                        more."
                    "You will not keep your promise. If necessary I'll go to
                        him and tell himand he'll release you."
                    She gave me a look that withered. "Youdo a cowardly thing like
                        that!"
                    "No," said I. "But you will ask
                        him to release you. You have no right to marry him. And II love youand must
                        live my life with you, orI can think of nothing more futile and empty than
                        life without you. And your lifewould it not be futile and empty, Mary, if
                        you tried to live it without me, when we might have been together?
                        Together!you and I! Mary, my love!"
                    "Why do you say those things, Godfrey?" she cried
                        passionately. "To make me wretched? To make it harder for me to do
                        what I must?"
                    "To make it impossible for you to do what you must not. Marry a man
                        you don't lovemarry him when you love another! You'd be
                        doing him the worst possible injury. No matter how much he loves you, he can
                        recover from the blow of losing you. But the day to day horror of such a
                        loveless marriage would destroy you both. He is a sensitive man. He would
                        feel  it, in spite of all your efforts to
                        pretend. Youpretend! You could not do it."
                    "After what has passed between him and methe promises we've
                        exchangedthe plans we've made there is no going back! I
                        don't wish to go back. I"
                    "MaryI love you!" I cried. "I love youand you love
                        me. That's the wall between you and any other man, between me and
                        any other woman."
                    She had waved to a passing taxi. It swept into the edge of the drive. She
                        opened the door. "You are not coming with me," she said.
                        "And I shall not see you again."
                    I laid my hand on her arm and forced her to meet my gaze. "You are
                        hysterical now," I said. "But you will be calm,
                        and"
                    She gave me a cold smileit would have deceived those who do not understand
                        the temperaments that can conceal themselves. "I am perfectly calm,
                        I assure you," said she.
                    "As you were the first time we ever met," said I.
                        "You've no right to marry any man but me, Mary. If you did
                        you'd be wronging yourselfmehim most of all. That is the truth, and
                        you will see it."
                    She dragged her arm away, burst into violent sobs, sank upon the seat of the
                        cab. I hesitatedobeyed a right instinct, closed the door, gave her address
                        to the ignoring chauffeur, stood watching the cab whisk away. I was shaking
                        from head to foot. But I had no fear for the outcome. I knew that I had
                        wonthat we had won.
                
                
                
                    XI
                    ROSSITEERI believe I have mentioned the name of my new
                        secretarywas lying in wait for me at the hotel entrance. He read me a
                        telegram from Margot: Edna was ill, was not expected to live, begged me to
                        come at once.
                    I wrote to Mary Kirkwooda brief repetition of what I had said to her
                        "of what I know both your intelligence and your heart are saying to
                        you, dear." I told her that Edna was desperately ill and had sent
                        for me, and that I should be back as soon as I could get away. I went on to
                        say many things such as a man deeply in love always says. No doubt it was a
                        commonplace letter, as sincere love letters are apt to be; but because it
                        was from my heart I felt that, for all the shortcomings, it would go to her
                        heart. I admit I am not a facile love-maker. I have had little practice. And
                        I suspect, those who are facile at love-making have got their facility by
                        making love speeches so often when they were not in earnest that they cannot
                        but have lost all capacity to be in earnest.
                    Toward noon the next day Rossiter and I and my valet were set down at the
                        little station of Kesson Wells, half an hour out from London in Surrey. We
                        were in the midst of about as beautiful a country as I have seen. I am a
                        narrow enough patriot not to take the most 
                        favorable view of things foreign. But I must admit that no other countryside
                        can give one the sense of sheer loveliness that one gets in certain parts of
                        England. I am glad we have nothing like it at home; for to have it means
                        rainj weather most of the time, and serf labor, and landlord selfishly
                        indifferent to the misery of the poor human creatures he works and robs.
                        Still, I try to forget the way it came in the joy of the thing itselfas you,
                        gentle reader, forget the suffering and death of the animals that make the
                        artistic and delicious course dinners you eat.
                    We were received with much ceremony at the station. My money was being
                        exercised by those who knew how to do it. After a drive between perfumed and
                        blossoming hedgerows and over a road as smooth and clean as a floor we came
                        to Garton Hall, the place my son-in-law had leased until his new house
                        should be ready. It was a modern house, as I noted with relief when we were
                        still afar off, and while not large, was a most satisfactory embodiment of
                        that often misused and often misunderstood word comfort. To live in the
                        luxurious yet comfortable comfort obtainable in England onlyindoors, in its
                        steam-heated or Americanized portionsone must have English servants. I am
                        glad we do not breed English servants in America; I am glad that when they
                        are imported they soon cease to be the models of menial perfection they are
                        at home. But when I am in England I revel in the English servant. To find
                        him at his best you must see him serving in the establishment of a great
                        noble. And my son-in-law was that; and the establishment over which Margot
                        presided, but with  which she was not
                        permitted to interfere in the smallest detail because of her utter ignorance
                        of all the "vulgarities" of life, as became a true lady of
                        our quaint American brandthe establishment was a combination of the best of
                        the city with the best of the country, a skillful mingling of the most
                        attractive features of home, club, and hotel.
                    My first question at the station had, of course, been as to Mrs. Loring. I
                        was assured that her ladyship's mother was somewhat better, but
                        still awaiting the dangerous crisis of the fever. Margot, not a whit less
                        girlish for her maternity, met me in the doorway, and had the nurse there
                        with the boythe Earl of Gorse. They said he looked like meand he did, though
                        I do not believe they thought so. Why should they say it? I was still a
                        young man and might marry again. I fancy the same prudent instinct prompted
                        them to give him Godfrey as one of his four or five names. Why do I think
                        they did not believe he looked like me? Because all of them were ashamed of
                        everything American. In the frequent quarrels between Margot and Hugh, he
                        never failed to use the shaft that would surely pierce the heart of her
                        vanity and rankle thereher low American birth, in such ghastly and grotesque
                        contrast to the illustrious descent of her husband. She had an acid tongue
                        when it came to quarreling; she could hurl taunts about his shifts to keep
                        up appearances before he met her that made ugly and painful marks on his
                        hide. She had discovered, probably by gossiping with some traitor servant,
                        that he had been flouted by a rich English girl for a chauffeurand you may
                        be sure she put it to  good use. But nothing
                        she could say made him quiver as she quivered when he opened out on the
                        subject of those "filthy bounders in the States."
                    Do not imagine, gentle reader, that my daughter was unhappily married. She
                        would not have exchanged places with anyone but the wife of a duke; and
                        Hughwell, he needed the money. Nor should you think that they lived
                        unhappily together. They saw little of each other alone; and in public they
                        were as smiling and amiable with each other asperhaps as you and your
                        husband.
                    A fine baby was the Earl of Gorseone who in a decent environment would have
                        grown up a sensible, useful person. But hardly, I feared, when he was
                        already living in his own separate apartment, with his name "The
                        Earl of Gorse" on a card beside the door, and with all the
                        servants, including his mother, treating him as if he were of superior clay.
                        This when he barely had his sight. They say a baby learns the utility of
                        bawling at about three days old; I should say the germ of snobbishness would
                        get to work very soon thereafter.
                    You are waiting to hear what was the matter with Edna. No, it was not a fake
                        illness to draw me within reach for some further trimming. She had indeed
                        fallen dangerously illdid not expect to live when Margot telegraphed me. It
                        was an intestinal fever brought on by the excesses of the London season. I
                        wonder when the biographers, poets, playwrights, novelists, and other gentry
                        who give us the annals of the race will catch up with the progress of
                        science? How long will it be before  they stop
                        telling us of germ and filth diseases as if they were the romantic physical
                        expressions of soul states? There was a time when such blunders were
                        excusable. Now, science has shown us that they are so much twaddle. So,
                        gentle reader, I cannot gratify your taste for humbug and moonshine by
                        telling you that Edna was stricken of remorse or of overjoy or of secret
                        grief or of any other soul state whatever. The doctor bosh was, of course,
                        nervous exhaustion. It always is if the patient is above the working class.
                        The truth was that she fell ill, even as you and I. She ate and drank too
                        much, both at and between meals, and did not take proper care of herself in
                        any way. She wore dresses that were nearly nothing in cold carriages and
                        draughty rooms, when she was laden with undigested food.
                        Vulgarisn't it? Revolting for me to speak thus of a lady? But I am
                        trying to tell the truth, gentle reader, not to increase your stock of slop
                        and lies which you call "culture." And if a lady will put
                        herself in such a condition, why should it not be spoken of? Why go on lying
                        about these things, and encouraging people to attribute to sensitive nerves
                        and souls the consequences of gluttony, ignorance, and neglect?
                    I am not criticising Edna for getting into such an internal physical state
                        that a pestilence began to rage within her. The most intelligent of us is
                        only too foolish and ignorant in these matters, thanks to stupid education
                        from childhood up. And she has the added excuse of having been exposed to
                        the temptations of a London season. She fell; it is hardly in human nature
                        not to fall.
                    
                    You have been through a London season? It is a mad chase from food to food.
                        You rise and hastily swallow a heavy English breakfast. You ride in the Row
                        a while, ride toward a lunch tableand an English lunch, especially in the
                        season, means a bigger dinner than any Frenchman or other highly civilized
                        person ever willingly sat down to. Hardly is this long lunch over before it
                        is time for teawhich means not merely tea, but toast, and sandwiches, and
                        hot muffins, and many kinds of heavy cake, and often fruit or jam. Tea is to
                        give you an appetite for the dinner that followsand what a dinner! One rich,
                        heavy course upon another, with drenchings of wine and a poisonous liqueur
                        afterward. You sit about until this has settled a bit, thenon to supper! Not
                        so formidable a meal as the dinner, but still what any reasonable person
                        would call a square meal. Then to bed? By no means. On to a ball, where you
                        eat and drink in desultory fashion until late supper is served. You roll
                        heavily home to sleep. But hardly have your eyes closed when you are roused
                        to eat again. It is breakfast time, and another day of stuffing has begun.
                    Starvation, they tell me, is one of the regular causes of death in London.
                        But that is in the East End. In the West Endand you, gentle reader, are
                        interested only in that sectiondeath, I'll wager, reaps twenty from
                        overfeeding to one he gets in the East End through underfeeding. Famine is a
                        dreadful thing. But how characteristic of the shallowness of human beings it
                        is that you can make a poetic horror out of famine, when no one would listen
                        while you told the far more horrible  truth of
                        the frightful ravages of overfeeding, chief cause of all the diseases that
                        torture and twist the human body, aging and killing it prematurely.
                    Edna had been for many years most cautiously careful of her health. She loved
                        her youth, her beautiful body. She fought against her natural fondness for
                        food and wine. I fancy that, for this first season after freedom she relaxed
                        her rules, and turned herself loose to "celebrate." I know
                        she must have had something of this sort in mind, because her French maidI
                        could not talk with the Italiantold me that madame had arranged an elaborate
                        programme of "cures" on the Continent after the season.
                        "And they were to be serious cures," said she.
                    Her illness took such a course of ups and downs, with death always hovering,
                        that it was impossible for me to leave. I wrote Mary; I got no reply. I sent
                        Rossiter to Paris; he reported that Mrs. Armstrong and Mrs. Kirkwood had
                        left for the country, but that he could get no address.
                    You probably picture me as scarcely able to restrain myself from acting like
                        a madman. How little you know of me! Do you think I could have achieved my
                        solid success before I reached forty-five years if I had been one of the
                        little people who fret and fume against the inevitable? All men who amount
                        to anything are violent men. Jesus, the model of serenity and patience,
                        scourged the money changers from the temple. Washington, one more great
                        exemplar of the majesty of repose, swore like a lunatic at the battle of
                        Monmouth. These great ones simply had in the highest form the  virtues that make for success in every
                        department of leadership. Certainly, I am a violent man; but I have rarely
                        been foolish enough to go crazy to no purpose.
                    What could I do but wait? And over that beautiful, quiet country place
                        floated the black cormorant, with wings outspread and hollow, burning eyes
                        bent eagerly downward. I waited, not in fury, but oppressed by a deep
                        melancholy. For the first time in my life I was thinking seriously of death.
                        To any man no decisive event of life is so absolutely unimportant as his own
                        death. I never have wasted, and never shall waste, a moment in thinking of
                        my death. It may concern others, but how does it concern me? When it comes I
                        shall not be there. The death of another, howeverthat is cause for
                        reflection, for sadness. I knew, as did no one else, how intensely Edna
                        loved life, how in her own way of strain and struggle she enjoyed it. And to
                        me it was pitiful, this spectacle of her sudden arrest, her sudden mortal
                        peril, as she was about to achieve the summit of her ambition.
                    I wondered as to Frascatoni. I pictured him waiting, with those tranquil,
                        weary eyes already looking about for another means to his aim of large
                        fortune should this means fail. There I misjudged him; for, one day as I
                        stood in a balcony overlooking the drive he came rushing up in a motor, and
                        my first glance at his haggard face told me that he loved her. In a way it
                        is small compliment to a woman to be loved by the fortune-hunting sort of
                        man; for, he does not release himself until he has the permit of basest
                        self-interest. But  Frascatoni, having
                        released himself, had fallen in love with all the frenzy of his
                        super-refined, passionately imaginative nature.
                    After a few minutes he drove away. I do not know what occurrednaturally, they
                        would not speak of his call and I did not ask questions. I can imagine,
                        however. She seemed better that day, and he must have gone away reassured.
                        He was sending, every morning, enormous quantities of flowers; such skill
                        and taste showed in the arranging that I am sure it was not the usual
                        meaningless performance of rich people, who are always trying to make
                        money-spending serve instead of thoughtful and delicate attention.
                    Nearly a month dragged along before she was able to see me. As I have
                        explained, her beauty was not dependent upon evanescent charms of contour
                        and coloring, but was securely founded in the structure of her head and face
                        and body. So, I saw lying weakly in the bed an emaciated but lovely Edna.
                        Instantly, on sight of her, there came flooding back to me the memory of the
                        birth of Margot, our first childhow Edna had looked when they let me go into
                        the humble, almost squalid little bedroom in the flat of which we were so
                        vain. She was looking exactly so in this bed of state, in this magnificent
                        room with the evidences of wealth and rank and fashion on every side. She
                        smiled faintly; one of the slim weak hands lying upon the cream-white silk
                        coverlet moved. I bent and kissed it.
                    "Thank you for being here," she murmured, tears in her
                        eyes. Her lips could scarcely utter the words.
                    "You must not speak, your ladyship," warned the  nurse. To flatter Americans and to give
                        themselves the comfortable feeling of gratified snobbishness English
                        servants address usor rather our womenas if we had titles.
                    "You are to get well rapidly now," I said.
                    "You'll stay until I can talk to you?"
                    "Yes," I saidwhat else could I say?
                    They motioned me away. I had committed myself to several weeks more of that
                        futile monotonyand I no longer had the restraint of the sense that she might
                        die at any moment.
                    Even had I been willing to break my promise I could not have done so; for she
                        would have me in every morning and every afternoon to look at me, and they
                        told me that if I were not there to reassure her, it would undoubtedly cause
                        a change for the worse. I stayed on and wrote to Mary Kirkwoodall the time
                        with the fear that my letters were not reaching her, but also with the
                        unshakable conviction that she was mine. You smile at this as proof of my
                        colossal vanity. Well, your smile convicts you of never having loved. The
                        essence of love is congeniality. Appetite is the essence of passionwhich,
                        therefore, has no sense of or especial desire for mutuality. Passion is as
                        common as any other physical appetite. Love is as rare as are souls generous
                        enough to experience or to inspire it. The essence of love is
                        congenialityand I knew there was a sympathy and
                        understanding between me and Mary Kirkwood that made us lovers for all time.
                    There came a dayhow it burned into my memory!when Edna was well enough to
                        talk with me. Several  days beforehand I saw
                        that it was not far away, and I awaited it with fierce impatience; she would
                        tell me why she had sent for me and I should be free to go. It was one of
                        those soft gray days of alternating rain and sun that are the specialty of
                        the British climate. Edna, with flowers everywhere in her sitting room, was
                        half reclining in an invalid chair, all manner of rich, delicate silk and
                        lace assistants to comfort, luxury and beauty adorning her or forming
                        background for her lovely face and head. I do not think there is a detail of
                        the room or of her appearance that I could not reproduce, though at the time
                        I was unaware of anything but her voiceher words.
                    I entered, seated myself in the broad low window opposite her. She looked at
                        me a long time, a strange soft expression in her weary eyesan expression
                        that disquieted me. At last she said:
                    "It is so good to be getting well."
                    "And you are getting well rapidly," I said. "You
                        have a wonderful constitution."
                    "You are glad I am better, Godfrey?"
                    I laughed. "What a foolish question."
                    "I didn't know," said she. "I feared I
                        have acted so badly toward you."
                    "No indeed," replied I. "Don't worry
                        about those things. I hope you feel as friendly toward me as I do toward
                        you."
                    "But you have always been good to meeven when I haven't
                        deserved it."
                    This was most puzzling. Said I vaguely, "I guess we've both
                        done the best we could. Do you want to  tell
                        me to-day why you sent for me? Or don't you feel strong
                        enough?"
                    "YesI wish to tell you to-day. Butit isn't easy to say.
                        I'm very proud, Godfreyand when I've been in the wrong
                        it's hard for me to admit."
                    "Oh, come now, Edna," said I soothingly.
                        "Let's not rake up the past. It's finishedand it
                        has left no hard feelingat least not in me. Don't think of anything
                        but of getting well."
                    She lay gazing out into the gentle rain with the sunshine glistening upon it.
                        A few large tears rolled down her cheeks.
                    "There's nothing to be unhappy about," said I.
                        "You are far on the way to health. You are as lovely as ever. And
                        you will get everything you want."
                    "Oh, it's so hard to tell you!" she sighed.
                    "Then don't," I urged. "If
                        there's anything I can do for you, let me know. I'll be
                        glad to do it."
                    She covered her eyes with her thin, beautiful hand. "Love melove me,
                        Godfreyas you used to," she sobbed.
                    I was dumfounded. It seemed to me I could not have heard aright. I stared at
                        her until she lowered her hand and looked at me. Then I hastily glanced
                        away.
                    "I'm sorry for the way I've acted," she
                        went on. "I want you to take me back. That was why I sent for
                        you."
                    I puzzled over this. Was she still out of her mind? Or was there some other
                        and saneand extremely practicalreason behind this strange turn?for I could
                             not for an instant imagine she was in
                        sane and sober earnest.
                    "You don't believe me!" she cried. "No
                        wonder. But it's so, Godfrey. I want your loveI want you. Won't youwon't youtake meback?"
                    Her voice sounded pitifully sick and weak; and when I looked at her I could
                        not but see that to refuse to humor her would be to endanger her life. I
                        said:
                    "Edna, this is an utter surprise for meabout the last thing I
                        expected. I can't grasp itso suddenly. II Do you really mean
                        it?"
                    "I really mean it, dear," she said earnestly.
                    It was evident she, in her secret heart, was taking it for granted that her
                        news would be welcome to me; that all she had to do in order to win me back
                        as her devoted, enslaved husband was to announce her willingness to come. I
                        have often marveled at this peculiar vanity of womentheir deep, abiding
                        belief in the power of their own charmsthe all but impossibility of a
                        man's ever convincing a woman that he does not love her. They say
                        hope is the hardiest of human emotions. I doubt it. I think vanity,
                        especially the sex vanity both of men and of women, is far and away hardier
                        than even hope. I saw she was assuming I would be delighted, deeply
                        grateful, ardently responsive as soon as I should grasp the dazzling glad
                        tidings. And she so ill and weak that I dared not speak at all frankly to
                        her.
                    She stretched out her hand for mine. I slowly took it, held it listlessly. I
                        did not know what to dowhat to say.
                    
                    "It is so good to have you again, dear," she murmured.
                        "Aren't you going to kiss me?"
                    "I don't understand," I muttered, dropping her
                        hand and standing up to gaze out over the gardens. "I am
                        stunned."
                    "I've been cruel to you," she said with gracious
                        humility. "Can you ever forgive me?"
                    "There's nothing to forgive. But" There I halted.
                    "I'll make up for it, dear," she went on, sweetly
                        gracious. "I'm not surprised that you are stunned. You
                        didn't realize how I loved you. I didn't myself. I
                        couldn't believe at first when I found out."
                    "You are not strong enough to talk about these things
                        to-day," said I. "We'll wait until"
                    She interrupted my hesitating speech with a laugh full of gentle gayety.
                        "You're quite wrong," said she.
                        "I'm not out of my mind. I mean it, dearand more. Oh, we
                        shall be so happy! You've been far too modest
                        about yourself. You don't appreciate what a fascinating man you
                        are."
                    I'm sure I reddened violently. I sat, rose, sat again.
                        "You've given me the shock of my life," said I,
                        with an embarrassed laugh. "I'll have to think this
                        over." I rose.
                    "Nodon't go yet," said she, with the graciousness
                        of a princess granting a longer interview. "Let me tell you all
                        about it."
                    "Not to-day," I pleaded. "You must be careful. You
                        mustn't overtax yourself."
                    
                    "Oh, but this does me good. Sit near me, Godfrey,
                        and hold my hand while I tell you."
                    I felt like one closeted with an insane person and compelled to humor his
                        caprices. I obediently shifted to a seat near her and took her hand.
                    "You could never guess how it came about," she went on.
                    As she was looking inquiringly at me, I said, "No."
                    "It was very strange. For the first few weeks after the divorceno,
                        not the divorcebut the decreefor it isn't a divorce yet, thank
                        God!for the first weeks I was happyor thought I was. I went early and late.
                        I had never been so gay. I acted like a girl just launched in society. I was
                        in ecstasies over my freedom. Do you mind, dear? Does it hurt you for me to
                        say these things?"
                    "Nono," said I. "Go on."
                    "How queer you are! But I suppose you are dazed, poor dear. Never
                        mind! When I am betterstronger, I'll soon convince you."
                        And she nodded and smiled at me. "Poor dear! How cruel I have
                        been!"
                    "Yeswe'll wait till you are stronger," stammered
                        I, making a move to rise.
                    "But I must tell you how it came about," she said,
                        detaining me. "All of a suddenwhen I was at my gayestI began to
                        feel strange and sadto dislike everyone and everything about me."
                    "It was the illness working in you," said I.
                    She gave the smile of gentle tolerance with which she received my attempts at
                        humor when she was in an amiable mood. "How like you that is! But
                        it wasn't  the illness at all. It was
                        my inmost heart striving to force open its door and reveal its secret. Do be
                        a little romantic, this once, dear."
                    "Welland then?"
                    "Thena paragraph in one of the society papers. Some one sent it to
                        me anonymously. Was it you, dear?and did you do it to make me
                        jealous?"
                    She spoke as one who suddenly sees straight into a secret. "I
                        didn't," said I hastily. "It never entered my
                        head to think you cared a rap about me."
                    "Now, don't tease me, Godfrey, dear. You must have been
                        making all sorts of plans to win me back."
                    "You read the item in the paper?" suggested I.
                    "Oh, yesI must finish. I read it. And at first I shrugged my
                        shoulders and said to myself I didn't in the least care. But I
                        couldn't get the thing out of mind. Godfrey, I had always been too
                        sure of you. You never seemed to be a single tiny bit interested in other
                        women. So the thought of you and another woman had not once come to me. That
                        item put it there. Youmy husbandmy
                        Godfrey and another woman! It was like touching a match to powder. I went
                        mad. I"
                    She was sitting up, her eyes wild, her voice trembling. "You must
                        not excite yourself, Edna," I said.
                    "I went mad," she repeated, so interested in her emotions
                        that she probably did not hear me. "I rushed down to Margot. I fell
                        ill. I made her telegraph for you. Oh, how I suffered until I knew you were
                        here. If you hadn't come right away I'd have cabled to my
                        lawyer in New York to have the divorce set asideor  whatever they do. I can have it set aside any time up to the
                        end of the six months, can't I?"
                    "Yes," admitted I, though her tone of positive knowledge
                        made my reply superfluous.
                    She seemed instinctively to feel a suspicionan explanation of her amazing
                        about-facethat was slowly gathering in my bewildered mind. She drew from the
                        folds of her negligee a note and handed it to me. She said:
                    "I haven't confessed the worst I had done. Read
                        that."
                    "Never mind," said I. "I don't wish to
                        know."
                    "But I wish you to know," insisted she. "There
                        mustn't be anything dark between us."
                    I reluctantly opened the note and read. It was from Prince Frascatoninot the
                        cold bid for a break that my suspicion expected but a passionate appeal to
                        her not to break their engagement and throw him over. I could by no reach of
                        the imagination picture that calm, weary-eyed man of the world writing those
                        lineswhich shows how ill men understand each other where women are
                        concerned.
                    "He sent me that note the day I came here," said she.
                        "I did not answer it." Her tone was supreme
                        indifferencethe peculiar cruelty of woman toward man when she does not care.
                    "You were engaged to him?" said Ibecause I could think of
                        nothing else to say.
                    "Yes," said she. Then with the chaste pride of the
                        "good" woman, "But not until after the decree was
                        granted. He would have declared himself in New  York, but I wouldn't permit that. At least,
                        Godfrey, I never forgot with other men that I was your wifeor let them
                        forget it. You believe me?"
                    "I'm sure of it," said I.
                    She gazed dreamily into vacancy. "To think," she mused,
                        "that I imagined I could marry himany man! How
                        little a woman knows her own heart. I always loved you. Godfrey, I
                        don't believe there is any such thing as divorcenot for a good
                        woman. When she gives herself"in a dreamy, musical voice, with a
                        tender pressure of my hand"it is for time and for
                        eternity."
                    Never in all my life had I so welcomed anyone as I welcomed the interrupting
                        nurse. I felt during the whole interview that I was under a strain; until I
                        was in the open air and alone I did not realize how terrific the strain. I
                        walkedon and on, like a madmanvaulting gates and fences, scrambling over
                        hedges, plowing through gardens, leaping brookson and on, hour after hour.
                        What should I do? What could I do? Nothing but wait until
                        she was out of danger, wait and study away at this incredible, impossible
                        freak of herstry to fathom it, if it was not the vagary of a diseased mind.
                        I wished to believe it that, but I could not. There was nothing of insanity
                        in her manner, and from beginning to end her story was coherent and
                        plausible. Plausible, but not believable; for I had no more vanity about her
                        loving me than has the next man when he does not want the love offered him
                        and finds it inconvenient to credit, and so is in the frame of mind to see
                        calmly and clearly.
                    I wandered so far that I had to hire a conveyance at  some village at which I halted toward nightfall. As soon as I
                        was at the house I ordered my valet to pack, and wrote Edna a note saying
                        that neglected business compelled me to bolt for London. "But
                        I'll be back," I wrote, at the command of human decency.
                        "I feel that I can go, as you are almost well." Half an
                        hour later I was in the train for London.
                    A letter, feebly scrawled, came from her the next day but onea brief loving
                        note, saying that she understood and that I knew how eagerly she was looking
                        forward to my return"but don't worry, dearest, about me. I
                        shall soon be well, now that my conscience is clear and all is peace and
                        love between us. I know how you hate to write letters, but you will
                        telegraph me every day."
                    How I got through those next few weeks I cannot tell. I had no sense of the
                        reality of the world about me or of my own thoughts and actions. Every once
                        in a whilesometimes when I was talking with the men whose company I sought,
                        again when I was alone in bed and would start abruptly from sleepI pinched
                        myself or struck myself violently to see if I was awake. Edna's
                        letters were daily and long. I read them, stared at them, felt less certain
                        than ever of my sanity or of my being awake. I sent her an occasional
                        telegram, dictated to Rossitera vague sentence of congratulation on her
                        better health or something of that kind. Soon this formality degenerated to
                        a request to Rossiter: "And telegraph Mrs. Loring." Or he
                        would say, "Shall I send Mrs. Loring a telegram?" and I
                        would reply, "Yesdo please."
                    
                    It was obviously necessary that I should not see her before she was well
                        enough to be talked to frankly. I invented excuses for staying away until my
                        ability in that direction gave out. Then Rossiter, best of secretaries,
                        divining my plight, came to the rescue. I gave him a free hand. He went too
                        far, created in her predisposed mind the illusion that I was champing with
                        impatience at the business that persisted in keeping me away from her. I do
                        not blame him; he took the only possible course.
                    At last she was completely restored. The doctors and nurses could find no
                        pretext for lingering, and that in itself was proof positive of her health
                        and strength. She was having her meals with the family, was attending to her
                        correspondence, was alarmed because she was taking on flesh so rapidly. She
                        began offering to join me in London. When she wrote that she was starting
                        the next day I telegraphed her not to come; and, after four more days of
                        delay on various excuses, I went down. I should have liked to postpone this
                        interview a week or ten days. Again I see you smiling at me, posing as madly
                        in love with Mary Kirkwood yet able to put off the joy of being free to go
                        to her. But, gentle reader, you must not forget that I had first to deal
                        with Edna. And, from what you have learned of her, do you think I was wise
                        or foolish to wish to meet her only when she could not possibly prevent
                        candor by pleading a remnant of invalidism?
                    She was charmingly dressed to receive me, rushed forward before them all and
                        flung her arms around my neck in a graceful, effusive fashion she had
                        learned on  the Continent. I received the
                        shock as calmly as I could, noting the awkwardly concealed surprise of
                        Margot and Hugh. We had lunch; she did most of the talkinga gay,
                        happy-hearted rattlingthe natural expression of a woman with not a care in
                        the world. And I In spite of myself I felt like an executioner come to
                        assassinate an unsuspicious and innocent victim. For the best side of her
                        was to the fore, and all the unpleasant traits were so thoroughly concealed
                        that they seemed to have been burned up in that terrible fever. I knew they were still there, but I could not feel it.
                    When we were alone in her sitting room, she said:
                    "Where's your valet and your luggage?"
                    "In London," said I.
                    "Oh, they're coming on a later train."
                    "No," said I, seizing this excellent opportunity.
                        "I'm going back this afternoon."
                    She gave a cry of dismay. "Godfrey!" she exclaimed.
                        "Isn't it a shame!" Then, rushing to the bell,
                        "I'll have my things got ready. I'll go back with
                        you. You shan't be left alone, dearest."
                    I seated myself. "Don't ring," I said.
                        "Wait till we've talked the matter over."
                    "I see you can't really believeeven yet," cried
                        she laughingly. "I must convince you." And she rang the
                        bell.
                    "When your maid comes, send her away," said I.
                        "Don't order her to pack. You can't go with
                        me."
                    She looked at me anxiously. "How solemn you are!" she
                        cried. "Has something gone wrong in that business?"
                    
                    "Nothing," said I. The maid came, was sent away. Edna moved
                        toward me, would have sat in my lap or on the arm of my chair had I not
                        prevented her by rising on the pretext of lighting a cigarette.
                    "You are veryverystrange," said she. Then advancing toward
                        me and gazing into my face, "Godfrey, there wasn't any
                        truth in that itemwas there?" She looked like a sweet, lovely slip
                        of a girl, all tenderness and sincerity.
                    "I've come to discuss our affairsnot malicious newspaper
                        gossip," said I, fighting for my usual manner of good-humored
                        raillery. "First, tell me what is the meaning of this outburst of
                        affection for me? Aren't you satisfied with the
                        settlements?"
                    "Oh, Godfrey, what a cynic you are!" laughed she. Then with
                        an air of earnestness that certainly was convincing, she said:
                        "Can't you feel that I love
                        you?"
                    "I cannot," replied I blandly. "On the contrary, I
                            know that you care nothing about me. So let's
                        talk business as we always have."
                    She did not rave and vow and swear. She did not show the least excitement.
                        She seated herself and, fixing upon me a look which I can only describe as
                        tenacious, she said:
                    "Whether you believe me or not, I love you. And I shall not give you
                        up."
                    My internal agitation instantly cleared away. I am always nervous about
                        crossing a bridge until my foot touches it; thenceforth I am too busy
                        crossing to bother about myself. "Wellwhat do you
                        propose?" said I.
                    "To be your wife," replied she. "To show you how
                             sorry I am for the way I have acted, to
                        show you by thinking only of making you happy."
                    "Yes? And what will you do to make me
                        happy?"
                    "Look after your comfortyour home, Godfrey."
                    "But you don't know about that sort of thing,"
                        said I. "You know only how to make a house attractive to other
                        people. You are far too fine for a private housekeeper."
                    "I shall learn," said she sweetly. "Those things
                        are not difficult."
                    I smiled at this unconscious confession of incapacity to learn the most
                        difficult of all the arts. "You will practice on me, eh? Thank
                        youbut no. You wouldn't make me comfortable. You'd only
                        harass yourself and deprive me of comfortand for years. 'Those
                        things' are less easy than you imagine. You are set in your ways, I
                        in mine."
                    "You don't realize," protested she confidently.
                        "You must be lonely, Godfrey. You need companionshipsympathy. I can
                        give it to you nowfor, I am awake at last. I know my own mind and
                        heart."
                    I shook my head. "That sounds well, but what does it mean? Next door to nothing, my friend. You and I are not
                        interested in the same things. We've nothing to talk about. I
                        don't know the things you knowthe social, the fashionable side of
                        life. You don't know my side of lifeand you couldn't and
                        wouldn't learn enough to interest me. Any forced interest you might
                        give would bore me. Pardon my frankness, but this is no time for polite
                        falsehoods.  The fact is we've
                        outgrown each other. When we look out of our eyes, each of us sees an
                        entirely different world; and neither of us cares about or even believes in
                        the other's world. We talk, only to irritate. We are absolutely and
                        finally apart. It would be impossible for us to live together."
                    She waited until I finished. I doubt if she listened. It was her habit not to
                        listen to what she did not wish to hear. "GodfreyGodfrey!"
                        she cried, battling with the sobs that rose, perhaps in spite of her.
                        "Do I mean nothing to youI who have been everything to you? Does
                        the word wife mean nothing to you?"
                    "You mean nothing to me," replied I. "And I mean
                        nothing to you. Let us not pretend to deceive ourselves."
                    "But you did care about me once," she pleaded. "I
                        am not old and faded. I still have all the charms I used to haveyes, and
                        more. Isn't that so, dear?"
                    "You are more beautiful than you ever were," said I.
                        "Butyou've gotten me out of the habit of you. And I
                        couldn't go back to it if I would."
                    She buried her face in her hands and wept.
                    "At your old tricks," said I impatiently. "It has
                        always been your way to try to make me seem in the wrong. As a matter of
                        fact, you lost years agolost before I didall interest and taste for our life
                        together. It was you who ended our married life, not I."
                    "Yes, it was all my fault," she sobbed. "Forgive
                        me, dear. Take me back. Don't cast me off. I'll be
                        whatever you saydo whatever you wish. Only take me back!"
                    
                    I could not make an inch of progress toward the real motive behind this
                        obviously sincere plea. As I sat silent, looking at her and puzzling, she
                        began to hope that she had moved me. Norather, she began to feel stronger in
                        her deep rooted conviction that at bottom I loved her and had never wavered.
                        She came across the room, dropped to her knees beside my chair and hid her
                        face in my lap. Why is it that passion once extinguished can never light
                        again? As she knelt there I appreciated all her physical charms; but I was
                        appreciative with that critical calmness which is the absence of all
                        feeling. I laid my hand on hers.
                    "Edna," I said, "what is the
                        meaning of this?"
                    "I am telling you the truth, Godfrey," replied she, lifting
                        her gold-brown eyes to gaze at me. "As God is my judge, I am
                        telling you the truth."
                    "No doubt you think you are," said I diplomatically.
                        "But your good sense must tell you that there's something
                        wrong."
                    "Yeswith you," was her answer in a sad tone. "I
                        hoped we could begin to be happy at once. I see now that I've got
                        to win you back."
                    I concealed my panic behind an amused laugh. "I suppose
                        I've misled you into forming this poor estimate of my intelligence
                        where you are concerned," said I. "You have thought all
                        these years that, because I said nothing, I did not understand. The truth
                        is, for many years I have understood you thoroughly, Edna. You doubt it. You
                        say to yourself, 'If he had understood, he would have been furious
                        and would not have allowed me to use him as a mere
                        pocketbook.'"
                    
                    Up she started, wounded to the quick. "Godfrey!" she cried.
                        "How you hurt! Oh, my dearspare me. If you had such a low opinion
                        of me, don't tell me about it. Perhaps I deserve your contempt. God
                        knows, I thought I was doing right. Don't be harsh with me,
                        dearest. I am only a woman, after all."
                    I shook my head smilingly. "Drop it," said I. "You
                        are entirely too strong a person to be able to hide behind a plea of
                        weakness. I have let you use me for your own selfish pleasure all these
                        years because I did not especially care. Also, it kept you away from mewhich
                        was highly agreeable to us both."
                    The anguish in her eyes, whether it was genuine or not, looked so sincere
                        that I avoided her gaze.
                    "But," I went on, "I'm no longer in the
                        mood to be used. You got through with me, as you thought, and divorced me
                        and prepared to marry a man more to your liking"
                    "Godfreyyou needn't be jealous of himof anyone!"
                    I made a gesture of resigned despair. Jealous! Her vanity rampant. It had
                        seized upon an insignificant phrase and had found what it was eagerly
                        looking for. "I am not jealous of him," said I,
                        "though it would be useless for me to try to convince you. Still, I
                        repeatI am not jealous. I was merely saying that you have cast me off, that
                        I choose to regard your action as final, that I shall not let you fasten on
                        me again simply because your selfishness and vanity happen to discover a new
                        value in me. Do I make my position clear?"
                    
                    "I see I can't convince you of what's in my
                        heart," said she with sweet resignation. "I had no right
                        to expect itto hope for it. But my life will convince you, Godfrey. I shall
                        win you back!"
                    I retained my appearance of calmness. But I was the reverse of calm. I
                        appreciated that she had me in her power. So far as I could judge, she was
                        not after more money, but was under the spell of some form of hysteria that
                        gave her the delusion of an actual desire to love me and to be loved by me.
                        As she had a fortune in her own right, and a large one, I was without means
                        of controlling her. I could not compel her to stick to her bargain and make
                        the divorce legally final; and, even if I had been so disposed I had no
                        ground for a divorce from her unless she should be consenting and assisting.
                    "If you cared for another woman, I might despair," she went
                        on. "But you don't. My heart tells me that you
                        don't."
                    Should I tell her? I strangled the impulse as it was born; my common sense
                        lost no time in reminding me of the folly of that course.
                    "I'll be so utterly yours, Godfrey," she went on,
                        "that you'll simply have to love
                        me."
                    I rose. "Let's have no more of this nonsense,"
                        said I. "Understand, once for all, Edna, the day when you can use
                        me is pastgone forever. You are freeand so am I. We will annoy each other no
                        more."
                    She faced me, her bosom heaving, her widening eyes scrutinizing me. And what
                        I saw in them made me  quail. For there shone
                        the arch-fiend jealousy. "Godfrey!" she exclaimed at last.
                        "It must be another woman!"
                    I laughednot pleasantly, I imagine. "Is there no end to your
                        vanity?" said I.
                    "Another woman," she repeated dazedly. "If that
                        weren't true you couldn't treat me harshlyyou would want
                        me backwould love me"
                    "If there were not another woman on earth, I would not go back to
                        you," said I.
                    But what woman would believe that of a manespecially of one upon whom she had
                        put her private brand? She said in the same slow ferocious way:
                        "Some woman has hold of youis getting ready to make a fool of
                        you."
                    I laughednervously watching her mind dart from woman to woman of those we
                        knew.
                    "Ahyou can't deceive me!" she cried.
                        "Mary Kirkwood! She has been stealing you away from me. And you, a
                        fool like all men where women are concerned, can't see through
                        her." Edna laughed wildly. "But she has me to reckon with now. I'll show her!"
                    "Mrs. Kirkwood is engaged to Hartley Beechman," said I.
                    "A nobody of a novelist," said Edna.
                        "That's a mere blind. She's after you. After my husbandthe man I
                        love! We'll see!"
                    Again I laughedand I am sure my counterfeit of indifference was successful.
                        "Have it your way," said I. "But the fact remains
                        that you and I are done with each other."
                    
                    "I shall set aside the divorce," said she.
                    "As you please," replied I, lighting a cigarette and
                        preparing to leave the room. "If you are not content with the terms
                        of settlement you can have more money. If that"
                    "Why do I love you?" cried she, all
                        softness and piteous appeal again. "You who are so base that you
                        think only of money! What weakness for me to love you! Yet, God help me, I
                        doI do! Godfrey"
                    "I am going back to London," said I.
                    She stretched out her arms, and her face was a grief-stricken appeal for
                        mercy. "You can't be so cruel to meyour Edna."
                    I smiled mockingly at her and left the room.
                
                
                
                    XII
                    I HAVE not been unaware of your anger and disgust with me,
                        gentle reader, during the progress of the preceding scene. In real lifein
                        your own lifeyou would have understood such a scene. But you are not in the
                        habit of reading realities in booksreal men, real women, real action.
                        Everything is there toned down, put in what is called an artistic
                        perspective. Well, I am not an artist, and perhaps I have no right to
                        express an opinion upon matters of art. But I'll venture. To me art
                        means a point of view upon life; so, I see nothing artistic, nothing but
                        more or less grotesque nonsense, in an art that is not a point of view but a
                        false view. But to keep to Edna and myself.
                    You think I should have been moist and mushy, should have taken her back,
                        should have burdened myself for the rest of my days with her insincere and
                        unsympathetic personality. You are saying: "But after all she loved
                        him." Even sowhat does the word love mean when used by a person of
                        her character? It means nothing but the narrowest, blighting selfishness.
                        She had for years used me without any thought for or of my feelings, wishes,
                        needs. When we moved into our grand New York house she gave me as a bedroom
                        the noisiest room in the house, one overlooking the street where the  rattling of carriages, cabs, and carts and
                        the talk and laughter of pedestrians kept me awake until far into the night
                        and roused me about four in the morningthis, when I was working with might
                        and main all day long and needed every moment of rest I could get. Why did
                        she give me that room? Because she wanted the only available quiet
                        roombeside her own bedroomfor a dressing room! She said the light in the
                        room she gave me was unfit to dress by! I thought nothing of all this at the
                        time. It is characteristic of American wives to do these things; it is
                        characteristic of American men to regard them as the matter of course. I
                        cite the small but not insignificant incident to show the minuteness of her
                        indifference to me. I have already given many of the larger though perhaps
                        less important instances, and I could give scores, hundreds, in the same
                        tenor. She professed to love me at that timeand she either had or simulated
                        a very ardent passion. But that was not love, was it? Love is generous, is
                        considerate, finds its highest pleasure of self-gratification in making the
                        loved one happy. Such a conception of love never entered her headand how
                        many American women's heads does it enter? How it amuses me to
                        watch them as they absorb everything, give nothing, sit enthroned upon their
                        vanitiesand then wonder and grow sulky or sour when their husbands or lovers
                        tire of the thankless task of loving them and turn awayor turn them away.
                    If Edna had awakened to genuine love, gentle outraged reader, would she not
                        have been overwhelmed with shame as she looked back upon her married life?
                        Would she have come to me with the offer of her love as a queen  with the offer of her crown? She would not
                        have indulged in empty words; she would have tried to do
                        something by way of reparation. She would not have demanded that she be
                        taken back; but, feeling that she had forfeited her rights, she would have
                        tried to find out whether I would consent to take her back; and if she had
                        found that I would not, she would have accepted her fate as her desert.
                    In those circumstances do you think I could have laughed at her and remained
                        firm? No one not a monster could have done that.
                    But the thing she called love was not love at all, was merely as I described
                        it to hera newly discovered way of using me after she had thought all
                        possible use for me exhausted. Such, gentle reader, is the simple truth. Yet
                        because I had intelligence enough to see the truth and firmness enough not
                        to be swayed by shallow and meaningless sentimentalities, you call me hard,
                        harsh, cruel. One of your impulsive kindly souls would have taken her
                        weeping to his arms, would have begun to live with her. And there the novel
                        would have ended, with you, gentle reader, all tears and thrills. For,
                        having no imagination, you would have been unable to picture the few weeks
                        of cat-and-dog life after the "happy ending," then the
                        breaking apart in hatred and vindictiveness. But this is not an
                        "artistic" novel. It is a story of life, a plain setting
                        forth of actualities, in the hope that it may enable some men and women to
                        understand life more clearly and to live their own lives more wisely and
                        perhaps less mischievously.
                    I went to my daughter. "Margot," said I, "your  mother threatens to try to stop the divorce.
                        It is best for both her and me that we be free. I am determined not to live
                        with her again, for I abominate the sort of life she and you lead. If you
                        will do what you can to bring her to her senses, I will see that you
                        don't regret it."
                    Margot rather liked me, I believe. Not as a father; as a father I made her
                        ashamed, like everything else American about her. But it was a resigned kind
                        of shame, and she appreciated my money, my good nature about it and my
                        services in bringing back her marquis and making possible her son the earl.
                        I knew I could count on her active sympathy; for she would vastly prefer
                        that her mother be the Princess Frascatoni.
                    My mother, Mrs. Loring; my mother, the Princess Frascatoni. Pronounce those
                        two phrases, gentle reader, and you will grasp my meaning.
                    I was by no means sure she would have any influence with her mother, even
                        though she was now the wife of one marquis and the mother of a marquis to
                        be, with about half the high British peerage as relatives. But I was
                        desperate, and a desperate man clutches at anything.
                    "I think you are right, papa," said she in her
                        mother's own grave sweet way. "You and mamma never have
                        been suited to each other. Besides, I don't want her away off in
                        America where I never expect to be again. Some of the girls who have married
                        here like to go back there and receive the flattery and the homage. But it
                        seems cheap to me. I'm sure I don't care what the
                        Americans think of me. I'm not snobbish, as I used to be. I am
                        English nowloyal English to the core."
                    
                    "This is the place for your mother, too." An idea occurred
                        to me. "If I took your mother back with me, I would have my parents
                        and hers live with us in a big place I'm going to buy in the
                        country. You don't know your grandparents well?"
                    She was coloring deeply. She must have heard more than her mother dreamed she
                        knew. "No, papa," said she.
                    "Your mother and I were disgracefully neglectful of them,"
                        pursued I. "But I shall make up for it, as far as I can. I wish you
                        would come over and visit us."
                    "I should like it, papa," murmured she, ready to sink down
                        with shame.
                    "They are plain people," I went on, "but they are
                        good and honestmuch ahead of these wretched parasites you've been
                        brought up among.... Talk to your mother about them. Tell her what I have
                        said."
                    She understood thoroughly; that is the sort of thing fashionable people
                        always understand. "I shall, papa," said she. And I could
                        see her putting on a fetching air of sweet innocence and telling her mother.
                    "And if she does not like it," continued
                        I"can't bear the scandal and ridicule among her
                        fashionable friendswhy, she can desert me. And that would give me ground for
                        divorce."
                    "She would be dreadfully unhappy over there," said Margot.
                    "I am sure of it," said I, and my accent was a guarantee.
                    Should I see Edna again and picture our life together in the house of love
                        she was bent upon? I decided  cided against
                        it. Margot's pictures might lack the energy and detail of mine.
                        They would more than make up in bringing home to her the awful reality, as
                        she would believe Margot where she might suspect me of merely threatening
                        what I would never carry out. So, off I went to Londonto wait.
                    About the hardest task in this world is inaction when every fiber of your
                        being is clamorous for action. Yet I contrived to sit tightfor a weekfor two
                        weeks. I have always regarded myself as too impatient, too impetuous. And,
                        beyond question, my natural tendency is to the precipitate. But looking back
                        over my life I am astonishedand not a little pleased with myselfas I note
                        how I have held myself in check, have confined my follies of rash haste to
                        occasions when miscarriage was not a serious matter.
                    Armitage cameon the way from St. Moritz to America. As soon as I could
                        command the right tone, I said:
                    "You've seen your sister and Mrs. Armstrong? How are
                        they?"
                    "All right," replied he indifferently. "Motoring
                        in Spain at present, I believe."
                    "Beechmanhe's with them?"
                    "No. He's somewhere hereabouts, I believe. I saw him in
                        Hyde Park the other daylooking as seedy as if he were pulling out of an
                        illness. I spoke and he stared and scowled and noddedlike the bounder that
                        he is."
                    "You don't care for him?" said I, rejoiced by this
                        news of my rival's seediness.
                    "Oh, one doesn't bother to like or dislike that sort  of chap." He said this in a
                        supercilious mannera manner he had never had in the earlier period of our
                        acquaintance. How the inner man does poke through the surface when the
                        veneer of youth wears thin!
                    "For one who despises birth and wealth and rank," said I,
                        not without a certain malice, "you have a queer way of talking at
                        times."
                    Armitage winced, changed the subject by saying: "And what the
                        devil's the matter with you? You're
                        looking anything but fit yourself."
                    "OhI'm up against it, as usual," said I gloomily.
                    He laughed. My pessimism was one of the jokes of my friends. But, having seen
                        so much of the ravages of optimismof the cheer-boys-cheer and
                        always-look-at-the-bright-side sort of thing, I had given myself the habit
                        of reckoning in the possibilities of disaster at full value when I made
                        plans. Little people ought always to be optimistic. Then, their
                            enthusiasmif directed by some big personproduces good
                        results, where they would avail nothing could they see the dangers in
                        advance. But big people must not beand are notoptimists, whatever they may
                        pretend. The big man must foresee all the chances against success. Then, if
                        his judgment tells him there is still a chance for success, his courage of
                        the big man will enable him to go firmly ahead, not blunderingly but wisely.
                        The general must be pessimist. The private must be optimist; for if he were
                        pessimist, if he saw what the general must see, he would be paralyzed with
                        fear and doubt.
                    "You're always grumbling," said Armitage.
                        "Yet you're the luckiest man I know."
                    
                    "Perhaps that's why," replied I.
                    He understood, nodded. "Doubtless," said he.
                        "What's luck? Nothing but shrewd calculation. The fellow
                        who can't calculate soon loses any windfalls that may happen to
                        blunder his way. But what's the grouch now?"
                    I was so helplessly befogged that I resolved to tell him.
                    "My late wife is threatening not to release me," said I.
                    He smiled curiously. "But she hasn't done it yet?"
                    "Not yet," replied I. "At least not up to eleven
                        o'clock this morning, New York time."
                    "I don't think she will," said he.
                    "Why?" demanded I.
                    "You won't let her, for one reason," replied he.
                        "You're as fond of your freedom as I am. And nothing on
                        earth could induce me to marry again. When womenEnglish womenlook at me I
                        see them fairly twitching to get me where they can make free use of me.
                        Yesmarriage has gone the way of everything else.
                        Businessfinancepoliticsreligionthey've all degenerated into so many
                        means of graft. And art's going the same way. And
                        marriageit's the woman's great and only graft. Our women
                        look at marriage in two wayshow much can be got out of it, living with the
                        man; how much will it net as alimony."
                    "You seemed rather positive that my late wife would not hold on to
                        me?" persisted I.
                    He eyed me sharply. "You really wish to be free?"
                    
                    "I am determined to be free."
                    "She's a charminga lovely woman," said he.
                    There was doubt of my candor in his eyes. It is all but impossible for a man
                        rightly to judge any woman except her he has tired of or for some other
                        reason does not want and cannot imagine himself wanting. The unpossessed
                        woman has but the one value; the possessed woman must have other valuesor
                        she has none. Armitage could judge Edna only as female, unpossessed female.
                        Said he:
                    "She's a charminga lovely woman."
                    "Like the former Mrs. Armitage," I reminded him.
                    "Soso," conceded he. "But I've always
                        believed you were a fond husband at bottom."
                    "Dismiss it from your mind," said I. "You are
                        hesitating about telling me something. Say it!"
                    With a certain nervousness he yielded to his love of gossip. "Prince
                        Frascatoni:you know him?"
                    I beamed in a reassuring smile. "My late wife's chief
                        admirer," said I. "A fine fellow. I like him."
                    "He's visiting down atwhat's the name of the place
                        your son-in-law has taken?"
                    "He is?" exclaimed I jubilantly. "When did he
                        go?"
                    "About a week, I hear."
                    "That looks encouraging, doesn't it?" cried I.
                    "It certainly does," said he. "They say he was
                        charging round town like a lunatic up to a few weeks ago"
                    "Two weeks ago," said I.
                    "But now he has calmed againlooks serene. I  had a note from him this morning. I'm positive
                        he's content with the way the cards are falling."
                    The change in me was so radical that Armitage must have been convincedfor the
                        moment. "If I only knew!" said I.
                    "I can find out for you," suggested he. "Your
                        daughter has asked me down for the week end. I'll sacrifice myself,
                        if you wish."
                    "I'll take your going as a special favor," said I.
                    "Besides," he went on, "these Anglo-American
                        menages interest me. American women are so brash with the men of their own
                        country. I like to see them playing the part of meek upper servants. The
                        only kind of wife to have is a grateful one. To get a grateful wife an
                        American has to marry some poor creature, homely, neglected by everyone till
                        he came along. Even then the odds are two to one she'll go crazy
                        about herself and despise himbecause he stooped to her, if she
                        can't find any other excuse. But a titled foreignerAn American girl
                        is on her knees at once and stays there. He can abuse herstep on herkill her
                        almostneglect herwaste her money. She is still humbly grateful."
                    "The worms have been known to turn," protested I. For,
                        while I could not deny the general truth of Armitage's attack I
                        felt he was whipped too far by bitterness that he, for lack of a title,
                        could not command what these inferior men with titles had offered to them
                        without the bother of asking.
                    "Not a worm," declared he. "No American woman ever
                        divorced a title unless she was either in terror of  her life or in terror of being robbed to the last penny and
                        kicked out."
                    "Thank God all our women aren't title crazy," said
                        I.
                    "How do you know they aren't?" retorted he.
                        "Do you know one who has been tempted and has resisted?"
                    I had to confess I did not.
                    "Then you thanked God too soon. The truth is our women are brought
                        up to be snobs, spendersuseless, vain parasites. Their systems are all ready
                        to be infected with the title mania."
                    Armitage, on his favorite subject, talked and talked. I did not listen
                        attentivelynot so much because I did not like what he was saying or because
                        I thought him prejudiced as because I knew him to be a secret snob of the
                        thorough-going variety. I suspected that if things were reversed, if he
                        could get a title by marriage and a position that would enable him to
                        swagger and would make everyone bow and scrape, he would put the eagerest of
                        the female title-hunters to the blush. It may be just and proper to
                        criticise women for being what they are. But let us also bear in mind that
                        it is not their fault but the fault of their training; also that the men do
                        no better when they have the chance to live in idle vanity upon the labors
                        of some one else.
                    On the following Monday my emissary returned from Garton Hall full to the
                        brim with news.
                    But first he had again to assure himself that there was no pretense in my
                        seeming anxiety to be free. I saw doubt of me in his eyes before he began
                        his adroit  cross-examination. I gave no sign
                        that I knew what he was about; for in those cases the one chance of
                        convincing is to submit to whatever tests may be applied. It was not
                        unnatural that he should doubt, coming as he did direct from seeing and
                        talking with the charming Edna. Men are habitually fools about womennot
                        because women make fools of them but because they enjoy the sensation of
                        making fools of themselves. That is a sensation much praised by poets,
                        romancers, sentimentalists of all kinds; and because of this praise it has
                        come to have a certain fictitious value, has come to be a cheap way for a
                        man to imagine himself a devil of a fellow, a figure of romantic
                        recklessness. There is no limit to which the passion for living up to a pose
                        will not carry a man. Men have flung away their fortunes, their lives, for
                        the sake of a pose; martyrs have burned at the stake for pose. So a man of
                        experience even more than your ordinary brick-brained citizen is distrustful
                        of his fellow men where women are concerned. And it is nothing against
                        Armitage's intelligence, nor any sign of his having a low estimate
                        of my strength of mind, that he tried to make absolutely sure of me before
                        proceeding.
                    Then, too, there was Edna's charm. WomenI mean, our fashionable and
                        would-be fashionable American women of all classes, from Fifth Avenue to the
                        Bowery, from Maine to the Pacificwomen are parlorbredare bred to make an
                        imposing surface impression. The best of them fool the most expert man, as
                        Edna had been fooling Armitage during those two days down in the country. A
                        man has to live with them to find  them out.
                        And often, our men, being extremely busy and kindly disposed toward their
                        women and unobservant of them and uncritical of them, do not find them out
                        for many years. The house is run badly, the money is wasted, the children
                        are not brought up right. But the man lets it pass as "part of the
                        game." He tells himself that not much but good looks is to be
                        expected of a woman; he buries himself still deeper in his business. Then If
                        he is a successful man, along about forty when he has got up high enough to
                        be able to relax from the labor of his career and thinks of enjoying
                        himself, he tries to form an alliance for pleasure with his wife. And lo and
                        behold, he discovers that he is married to a vain, superficial fool.
                    There could have been no more delightful experience than passing a few days
                        in the society of Edna. She had educated herself, admirably, thoroughly, for
                        show. She could have fooled the fashionable man his whole life through, for
                        one cannot see beyond the range of his own vision. She might have fooled
                        many a serious man of the narrow type; an excellent shoemaker might easily
                        be misled by a clever showy jack of all trades into thinking him a master of
                        all trades so long as he avoided betraying his ignorance of shoemaking. But
                        your successful American man of the highest type, having a broad range of
                        practical interests, becomes a shrewd judge of human values. Thus, the
                        American woman who can pass for brilliant in fashionable society at home or
                        abroad cannot deceive the American manfor long. Not when he lives with her.
                        No wonder she finds him coarse; who does not wince when vanity is  stepped on or ignored? No wonder she thinks
                        him uninteresting. A child would have an equally poor opinion of any person
                        inexpert at catcher, marbles, and mud pies.
                    Armitage, in a company of titled people, his nostrils full of his beloved,
                        stealthily enjoyed perfumes of wealth and rank, was captivated by Edna. If
                        he had stopped a week or so, his American shrewdness might have found her
                        out, might have seen why I could view with unruffled sleeves, as the Chinese
                        say, the loss of so lovely and lively a companion. But, stopping only for
                        the week end, he became doubtful of my sincerity. I measured how deeply he
                        had been deluded when he spoke of her keen sense of humor. Woman nature is
                        too practical, too matter-of-fact for even the cleverest of them to have a
                        real sense of humorwith now and then an exception, of course. Edna had not a
                        glimmer of appreciation of either wit or humor. But only I, before whom she
                        dropped all pretenses except those that were essential to her poseonly I
                        knew this. Before the rest of the world, with the aid of her vivacity!What
                        an aid to women is vivacity!how many of them it marries well!With the aid of
                        her vivacity she made a convincing show not only of appreciating humor and
                        wit but also of having much of both. At precisely the right place she gave
                        the proper, convincing, charming exhibition of dancing eyes and pearl-white
                        teeth. And occasionally with a pretty liveliness she repeated as her own
                        some witticism she had heard much applauded in another and remote company.
                        But I do not blame you, ladies, for your inveterate and incessant posing. We
                             men are determined to idealize and to be
                        gulled, and you need us to pay for your luxury and your finery.
                    I let Armitage probe on and on until my impatience for his news would suffer
                        no further delay. I said:
                    "I see you refuse to be convinced. So let it go at that, and tell me
                        what you found out. Is she to marry Frascatoni?"
                    "As I've been telling you, I believe she is in love with
                        you, Loring."
                    "But is she going to free me?"
                    "Unless you do something pretty soon, I'm afraid
                        you'll lose her."
                    It was too absurd that he, who had lived with one of these showy vivacious
                        women, had found her out and had rid himself of her should be thus taken in
                        by another of precisely the same kind. But that's the way it is
                        with men. They understand why they yawn at their own show piece; but they
                        can't appreciate that all show pieces in time produce the same
                        effect.
                    "There still remain three weeks before the day on which her lawyers
                        must ask the judge to confirm the decree," said I. "Do you
                        think she will have them do it or not?"
                    "Unless you get busy, old man"
                    "But I shall not get busy. I shall do everything I can to encourage
                        her to stay free."
                    "Then you'll lose her," said he.
                        "Frascatoni is mad about her, and he knows how to make an
                        impression on a woman. It irritated me to see a damned dago carrying off
                        such a prizeand you know I'm not prejudiced in favor of American
                        women."
                    
                    "I want to see her happy," said I. "She will be
                        happy with himso, I hope he gets her." I laughed mockingly.
                        "She wouldn't be happy with an American, Bobnot even with
                        you."
                    He colored guiltily. "That idea never entered my head,"
                        protested he.
                    But I laughed the more. "And she wouldn't have you,
                        Bob," I went on. "So, don't put yourself in the
                        way of being made uncomfortable."
                    He had enjoyed himself hugely. Not only was my former wife most entertaining,
                        but also Margot. She had, beyond question, been beautifully educated for the
                        part she was to take in life. Her mannerso Armitage assured mewas the
                        perfection of gracious simplicitythe most exquisite exhibition of the
                        perfect lady"note how ladylike I am, yet how I treat you as if you
                        were my equal." Graciousthere's the word that expresses
                        the whole thing. And she had a quantity of bright parlor tricksFrench
                        recitation, a little ladylike singing in a pleasant plaintive soprano that
                        gave people an excuse for saying: "She could have been a
                        grand-opera star if she had cared to go in seriously for that sort of
                        thing." Also, a graceful skirt dance and a killing cake walk. She
                        had an effective line of fashionable conversation, tooabout books and
                        pictures, analysis of soul states, mystic love theoriesall the paraphernalia
                        of a first-class heroine of a first-class society novel. And you, gentle
                        reader, who know nothing, would never have dreamed that she knew nothing.
                        You who are futile would not have seen how worthless she wasexcept to do
                        skirt dances well  enough for a drawing-room
                        or to talk soul states well enough for a society novel.
                    The more Armitage discoursed of the delights of his little visit the more
                        nervous I became lest Edna should again change her mind and inflict me
                        further. What he had said brought back my life with her in stinging
                        vividness. I lived again the days of my self-deception, the darker days of
                        my slow awakening, the black days of my full realization of the mess my life
                        was, and of my feeling that there was no escape for me.
                    "I will admit, Loring," said Armitage, "that as
                        women go our women are the best of all."
                    "Yes," I assented, sincerely. "And they ought to
                        be. America is the best place to grow men. Why shouldn't it be the
                        best place to grow women?"
                    He did not pursue the subject. In his heart he disagreed with me, for he was
                        wholly out of conceit with everything American. His pose had been the other
                        way, and he shrank from uncovering himself.
                    A day or so later I was crossing Green Park when I ran straight into Hartley
                        Beechman. I smiled pleasantly, though not too cordially. He planted himself
                        in front of me arrel stared with a tragic frown. I then noted that he verged
                        on the unkempt, that he had skipped his morning shave and perhaps his bath.
                        His stare was unmistakably offensivethe look of a man who is seeking a
                        quarrel.
                    "How're you, Beechman?" said I, ignoring the signs
                        of foul weather. "Armitage told me you were in town, but
                        didn't know your address. Stopping long?"
                    
                    "You are a scoundrel," said he.
                    I shrugged my shoulders. As I was much the larger and stronger man I could
                        afford to do it. "So I've often heard," said I.
                        "Perhaps it's true. What of it? Why should you think I
                        cared to know your opinion of me?"
                    "If I send you a challenge will you accept it?"
                    I laughed. "No, I never pay the slightest attention to crank
                        letters."
                    "You are a coward. You will not give me a chance to meet you on
                        equal terms."
                    "I'll take you over my knee and give you a spanking if you
                        don't behave yourself," said I, and I pushed him out of my
                        path and was passing on.
                    "You took her away from me," he jeered. "But it
                        will do you no good. She is laughing at us both."
                    I strode away. I had heard enough to put me in high good humor.
                    As the end of my wait upon the anxious seat drew into its last week, I fell
                        into a state of deep depression. Too much eating and drinking was, of
                        course, the cause. But I had to pass the time somehow; and what is there to
                        do in London but eat and drink?
                    Four days before the last, Rossiter came into my sitting room with the news
                        that Edna was calling. There arose a nice question: Would I better send word
                        I was out or see her? Because of my knowledge of her persistence where her
                        interest was really engaged, I decided to see her and have done with. So in
                        she came,  vivacious, radiantdressed for a
                        scene in which she was to be heroine, as I saw at a glance.
                    "Pray don't think I'm going to repeat what I did
                        the other day," cried she by way of beginning.
                        "I'm in quite another mood."
                    "So I see," said I.
                    "I was horribly ashamed and disgusted with myself
                        afterwards," she went on. "You must have thought me crazy.
                        In fact, you did. You treated me as if I were."
                    "Won't you sit?" said I, arranging a chair for
                        her.
                    She smiled mischievously at me as she seated herself. "You do know
                        something about women," said she. "You put this chair so
                        that my face would be spared the strong light." As she said this,
                        she turned into the full strength of the light a face as free as a
                        girl's from wrinkles or any other sign of years. "You
                        certainly do know something about women."
                    "Very little," said I, for it was not a time to pause and
                        poke a finger into the swelling bubble of woman's baffling
                        complexity and unfathomable mystery. "You've come to tell
                        me what it was you wanted the other day?"
                    She shook her head. She was wearing a charming hatbut her costumes were never
                        indifferent and nearly always charminga feat the more remarkable because
                        she, being a timidly conventional woman, followed the fashions and ventured
                        cautiously and never far in individual style. "You're
                        usually right, my dear," said she, "in your guesses at
                        people's underlying  motives. But you
                        were mistaken that time. I wanted exactly what I said. I wanted you."
                    
                    "Incredible," laughed I.
                    "Yesit does sound so," conceded she. "But
                        it's the truth. I had a queer attackan attack of jealousy.
                        I'd often heard of that sort of thing. I fancied myself above it.
                        Perhaps that was why I fell such a foolish victim. But I've
                        recovered completely." And her eyes were mocking me as if she had a
                        secret joke on me.
                    "It couldn't last long," said I, to be saying
                        something.
                    "No, perhaps not," replied she. "At any rate, as
                        soon as I heard of Mary Kirkwood's engagement I was curedinstantly
                        cured."
                    "I told you she was engaged," said I.
                    "Oh, I don't mean that Beechman person," scoffed
                        Edna. "She was simply amusing herself with him. A womana woman of
                        our worldmight have an affair with a man of that sortas you men sometimes do
                        with queer women. But she wouldn't think of marrying him. Marriage is a serious matter."
                    "Yes, indeed," said I.
                    "It's a woman's whole career," pursued
                        she. "It means not only her position, but the position of her
                        children, too."
                    "Very serious," said I.
                    "NoI mean Mary's engagement to Count von
                        Tilzer-Borgfeldt."
                    "I hadn't heard of it," said I indifferently.
                        There could be nothing in such a silly story.
                    
                    "Didn't Bob Armitage tell you?"
                    "Not yet," said I. "But why should he?"
                    "That's queer," mused she. "Perhaps he
                        thought there might be a little something in the talk about you and Mary,
                        and that it would be well not to stir things up."
                    "That might account for it," I agreed.
                    She was studying me closely. "I believe you really didn't
                        care about Mary," continued she. "I confess I was
                        astonished when I first heard that you did. She's" Edna
                        laughed"hardly up to me."
                    
                    "Hardly," said I.
                    "But let's not talk of her. I've forgotten all
                        that. I've come to make a last proposal to you."
                    She was smiling, but I detected seriousness in her eyes, in her unsteady
                        upper lip, in her hands trying not to move restlessly.
                    "You don't realize what a strong hold you have on me,
                        Godfrey, Is it love? Is it habit? I don't know. But I
                        can't shake it off. Don't you think me strange, talking to
                        you in this way?"
                    "Why shouldn't you?" said I.
                    "It's more like a woman who isn't attractive to
                        men."
                    "On the contrary," said I. "You speak like a woman
                        accustomed to deal with men according to her own good pleasure."
                    "How shrewd that is!" said she, with an admiring glance.
                        "How shrewd you are! That's what I miss in other menin
                        these men over here who have so much that I admire. But theywell, they give
                        me the feeling  that they are superficial. Do
                        you think I am superficial?"
                    "How could I?" said I.
                    "That's an evasion," laughed she. "You
                            do think so. And perhaps I am. A woman ought to be. A
                        man looks after the serious side of life. The woman's side is the
                        lighter and graceful sidedon't you think so?"
                    "That sounds plausible," said I.
                    "But I grow tired of superficial men. They give me the feeling
                        thatwell, that they couldn't be relied on. And you are reliable,
                        Godfrey. I feel about you that no matter what happened you'd be
                        equal to it. And that's why I don't want to give you
                        up."
                    I sat with my eyes down, as if I were listening and reflecting.
                    "Since you've been over here long enough toto broaden a
                        little You don't mind my saying you've
                        broadened?"
                    "It's true," said I.
                    "I've fancied perhaps you might be seeing that I
                        wasn't altogether wrong in my ideas?"
                    "Yes?" said I, as she hesitated.
                    "Margot was telling me about some plans you hadfor living on the
                        other side. You weren't in earnest?"
                    I looked at her gravely. "Very much in earnest," said I.
                        "I shall never again, in any circumstances, live as we used to
                        live."
                    She sank back in her chair, slowly turned her parasol round and round.
                        "Thenit's hopeless," said she,  with a sigh that was a sob also. And the look
                        in the eyes she lifted to mine went straight to my heart. "I simply
                        can't stand America," said she. "It reminds me
                        of" She rose impatiently. "If you only knew, Godfrey, how
                            I loathe my originthe dreadful depth we came fromthe
                        commonness of it." She shuddered.
                    "Europe is the place for you," said I.
                    "Yes, it is," cried she. "And we could be happy
                        over hereif you'd only see it in the right light. Godfrey, I
                        don't want toto change. Won't you compromise?"
                    "By conceding everything?" said I good-humoredly.
                        "By becoming the bedraggled tail to your gay and giddy
                        kite?"
                    "You simply won't reason about these things!"
                        exclaimed she. "Yet they say men are reasonable!"
                    "My dear Edna, I don't ask you to make yourself wretched
                        for my sake. And I don't purpose to be wretched
                        for your sake."
                    She sat down again. The brightness had faded from her. She looked older than
                        I'd have believed she could. "WellI see it's
                        useless," she said finally. "And as I've got to
                        stay over here, I simply must marry again. You understand that?"
                    "Perfectly," said I.
                    "Don't you care the least bit?" said she
                        wistfully.
                    "You wish me to be unhappy about it," laughed I,
                        "to gratify your vanity."
                    She sighed again.
                    "You are content with the settlements?"
                    
                    "Oh, yes," said she wearily.
                    No doubt you, gentle reader, are now completely won over to her and think
                        that the least I could in decency have done would have been to insist on her
                        accepting half my fortune. I had no impulse toward that folly. There is a
                        kind of wife who can justly claim that she is the equal partner in her
                        husband's wealth. But not the Edna kind. I had made my fortune in
                        spite of her. Nor was I keen to give her any more money than I should be
                        compelled; why turn over wealth to her to fritter away and to bolster the
                        pretensions of a family of worthless Italian aristocrats?
                    With a sudden darting look at me, she said: "You know Frascatoni.
                        What do you think of him?"
                    "A fine specimen," said I. "A fascinating
                        man."
                    She shrugged her shoulders. "Fascinating enough, I suppose. Butwould
                        you trust him?"
                    "I would not," replied I. "Nor any other man. I
                        have long since learned not to trust even myself. But I'd trust him
                        as far as the next manas far as it's necessary to trust
                        anyone."
                    She nodded in appreciation and agreement. "I believe he genuinely
                        cares for me," she said, adding with a melancholy look at me,
                        "And it's pleasant to be cared about."
                    "So I have heard," said I.
                    "You never wanted anyone to care about you," said she.
                        "You are independent of everything and everybody."
                    "That's safest," said I.
                    She did not reply. After reflecting she burst out  with, "You ought to have made me,
                        Godfreyought to have trained me to jour taste. Women have to be made."
                    "Even if that had been possible in this case," I observed,
                        "I didn't know enough."
                    Again she thought a long time; then with a sigh she said: "But
                        it's too late now. You're right. It's too
                        late."
                    It puzzled me to note how much the world had taught her in some ways, and how
                        little in others. But that is a familiar puzzlethe unexpected, startling
                        ways in which knowledge juts out into ignorance and ignorance closes in upon
                        knowledge, forming a coast line between the land of knowledge and the sea of
                        ignorance more jagged than that of Alaska or Norway. The result is that each
                        of us is a confused contention of wisdom and folly in which the imperious
                        instincts of elemental passions and appetites, by their steady persistence,
                        easily get their way.
                    "Since I've begun to look at these foreign men
                        seriously," she went on, "to study them It's one
                        thing to size them up, as you say in America, with the idea that
                        they're mere outsidersacquaintancessocial friends. It's
                        very different to measure them with a view to serious relations.
                        I'm not altogether a fooleven from your standpointam I,
                        Godfrey?"
                    "Distinctly not," said I.
                    "Since I've been studying these
                        upper-class men over hereI've changed my mind in some respects.
                        I'm not a child, you know. I haven't done what
                        I've done without using some judgment of men and women."
                             She flooded me with a smile of gratitude.
                        "I owe my judgment to you, Godfrey. You taught me."
                    "You never agreed with anything I saidwhen I did occasionally
                        venture an opinion."
                    "Because a woman disagrees and scornsit doesn't follow that
                        she isn't convinced."
                    "You've changed your mind about these men?" said
                        I, for my curiosity was aroused.
                    "I find a lack in them. You're right to a certain extent,
                        Godfrey. They are futilethe cleverest of them. Culture
                        gives a great deal, of course."
                    "What?" said I.
                    "It's too long and involved to explain. And you
                        don't believe in it."
                    "I'm willing to," said I. "But first,
                        I'd like to know what it is, and second,
                        I'd like to know what it does. I've
                        never been able to get anything but words in answer to either
                        question."
                    "Well, I see that it gives a great deal. But I
                        must admit that it takes away somethingyes, muchstrength from the mind and
                        softness from the heart."
                    I was astonished at this admission from herat the admission itself, at the
                        fresh evidences of what a good natural mind she had. But I had no desire to
                        discuss with her. I had long outgrown the folly of discussion with futile
                        people. I was tempted to air my own views of this so-called culturehow it
                        emasculated where it pretended to soften; how it discovered nothing,
                        invented nothing, produced nothing, did not feed, or clothe, or shelter, or
                        in any way contribute to the sane happiness of a human being; how it
                        unfitted men and women for  active life, made
                        them pitiful spectators merely, scoffing or smiling superciliously at the
                        battle. But I refrained. I knew she believed the rle of spectator the only
                        one worthy a lady or a gentlemanand certainly it is the only one either lady
                        or gentleman could take without being exposed as ridiculous. I knew that her
                        wise observations were clever conversation merely, after the manner of
                        futile peoplethat when the time for action came her snobbishness dominated
                        her.
                    "I wish these men were not soso"
                    "Good-for-nothing?" I suggested.
                    She accepted the phrase, though she would have preferred one less mercilessly
                        truthful.
                    "You can't find everything in one person," said I.
                    That kind of tame generalitylack of interest thinly veiled in a polite show
                        of interestkills conversation and sets a tarrying caller to moving where
                        dead silence produces a nervous tendency to linger. Edna extended her arm,
                        resting her hand upon the crook of her parasol in a gesture of approaching
                        departure. Yet she seemed loth to go. She rose, but counterbalanced with:
                    "You know, I suppose, that it's likely to be
                        Frascatoni?"
                    I rose, replied indifferently, "So I hear."
                    She stood, smiling vaguely down at the gloved hand on the crook of the
                        parasol. "If I were only youngeror more credulous," said
                        she. And I knew that there was a thin, sour after-taste to the sparkling
                        wine of the prince's love-making. I smiledpleasant, noncommittal.
                    "I ask too much of life," said she impatiently.
                    
                    "Isn't it irritating that I should become critical just as
                        I am in a position to get everything I've longed for and worked
                        for?"
                    "Those moods pass," said I.
                    "No doubt," said she. "Wellgood-by." She
                        put out her hand with a radiant smile. "I'll not annoy you
                        any more."
                    My answering smile and pressure of the hand were friendly, but cautiously so,
                        for I felt I was still on thin ice. I opened the door for her. We shook
                        hands again. Our eyes met. I think it must have given each of us a shock to
                        see in the other's face the polite, distant look of strangers
                        parting. How easy it is for two to become like oneand when they are, how
                        impossible it seems that they could ever be aliens. How easy it is for two
                        that are as one to become utter strangers; the sea is wide, and its currents
                        curve rapidly away from each other.
                    "Rossiter," said Ihe was at work in the anteroom,
                        "take Mrs. Loring to her carriage, please."
                    Soshe was gone; I was free!
                
                
                
                    XIII
                    NOT a shadow of doubt lingered. She was gone; I was free.
                        Her manner had been the manner of finality. Her reluctance and her sadness
                        were little more than the convention of mourning which human beings feel
                        compelled to display on mortuary occasions of all kinds. Beneath the crepe I
                        saw a not discontented resignation, a conviction of the truth that life
                        together was impossible for her and me.
                    My male readersthose who have a thinking apparatus and use itwill probably
                        wonder, as I did then, that she had overlooked certain obvious advantages to
                        be gained through refusing to divorce me. She knew me well enough to be
                        certain I would not compel her to go to America and live with me, but if she
                        insisted would let her stay in Europe or wander where she pleased. This
                        would have given her all the advantages of widowhood. Free, with plenty of
                        money, she could have led her own life, without ever having to consult the
                        conveniences and caprices of a husband. It seemed to me singularly stupid of
                        her to resign this signal advantage, to tie herself to a husband she could
                        not ignore, a husband she already saw would bore her, as poseurs invariably
                        bore each otherto tie herself to such a man with no compensating advantage
                        but a title. Indeed,  so stupid did it seem
                        that from the moment she began to waver about confirming the divorce I all
                        but lost hope of freedom.
                    My women readers will understand her. A man cannot appreciate how hampered a
                        woman of the lady class is without a legitimate male attachment of some
                        kinda husband, a brother, or a father in constant attendance, ready for use
                        the instant the need arises. Our whole society is built upon the theory that
                        woman is the dependent, the appendage of man. Freedom is impossible for a
                        woman, except at a price almost no woman voluntarily pays. To have any
                        measure of freedom a woman must bind herself to some man, and the bondage
                        has to be cruel indeed not to be preferable to the so-called freedom of the
                        unattached female. Thus it was not altogether snobbishness, it may not have
                        been chiefly snobbishness, that moved Edna to transfer herself to a husband
                        who would be a more or less unpleasant actuality. She had to have a man. She
                        wished to live abroad and to be in fashionable society. She chose shrewdly,
                        I imagine, from several things she said, that she had measured Frascatoni
                        with calm impartiality, had discovered many serious disadvantages in him as
                        husband to a woman of her fondness for her own way. But estimating the
                        disadvantages at their worst, the balance still tipped heavily toward him.
                    I am glad I was not born a woman. I pity the women of our day, bred and
                        educated in the tastes of men, yet compelled to be dependents, and certain
                        of defeat in a finish contest with man.
                    
                    Though there was now no reasonable doubt of Edna's having the decree
                        of divorce made final, I, through overcaution or oversensitiveness as to
                        Mary Kirkwood's rights, or what motive you please, would not let
                        myself leave London until a cable from my lawyers in New York informed me
                        that the decree had been entered and that I was legally free. The newspapers
                        had given much space to our affairs. It was assumed that I had come abroad
                        "to make last desperate efforts to win back the beautiful and
                        charming wife, the favorite of fashionable European society."
                        Stories had been published, giving in minute detail accounts of the bribes I
                        had offered. And when the final decree was entered, my chagrin and fury were
                        pictured vividly.
                    I did nothing to discredit this, but, on the contrary, helped along the
                        campaign for the preservation of the literary and journalistic fiction that
                        the American woman is a kind of divine autocrat over mankind. If I had been
                        so vain and so ungallant as to try to make the public see the truth I should
                        have failed. You can discredit the truth to, the foolish race of men; but
                        you cannot discredit, nor even cast a shade of doubt upon, a generally
                        accepted fiction of sentimentality. And of all the sentimental fictions that
                        everyone slobbers over, but no one in his heart believes with the living and
                        only valid faith of works, the fictions about woman are the most sacred.
                        Further, how many men are there who believe that a man could get enough of a
                        physically lovely woman, however trying she might be? Once in a while in a
                        novelnot often, but once in a whilethere are scenes portraying with some
                        approach to fidelity what  happens between a
                        woman and a man who is of the sort that is attractive to women. Invariably
                        such scenes are derided or denounced by the critics. Why? For an obvious
                        reason. A critic is, to put it charitably, an average man. He has no
                        insight; he must rely for his knowledge of life solely upon experience. Now
                        what is the average man's experience of women? He treats them in a
                        certain dull, conventional way, and they treat himas he invites and compels.
                        So when he reads how women act toward a man who does not leave them cold or
                        indifferent, who rouses in them some sensation other than wonder whether
                        they would be able to stomach him as a husband, the critic scoffs and waxes
                        wroth. The very idea that women might be less reserved, less queenly, less
                        grudgingly gracious than woman has ever been to him sends shooting pains
                        through his vanityand toothache and sciatica are mild compared with the
                        torturings of a pain-shotten vanity.
                    Edna scored heavily in the newspapers. You would never have suspected it was
                        her late husband's money that had given her everything, that had
                        made her throughout; for, what had she, and what was she, except a product
                        of lavishly squandered money? Think about that carefully, gentle reader,
                        before you damn me and commiserate her as in these pages a victim of my
                        venomous malice.... She was the newspaper heroine of the hour. If she had
                        been content with this But I shall not anticipate.
                    My cable message from New York came at five o'clock. At half past
                        six, accompanied only by my valet, I was journeying toward Switzerland.
                    
                    Mrs. Kirkwood, I had learned from her brother, was at Territet, at the Hotel
                        Excelsior, with the Horace Armstrongs. At four the following afternoon I
                        descended at Montreux from the Milan express; at five, with travel stains
                        removed, I was in the garden of the Excelsior having tea with Mrs. Armstrong
                        and listening to her raptures over the Savoy Alps. Doubtless you know Mrs.
                        Armstrong's (Neva Carlin's) work. Her portrait of Edna is
                        famous, is one of the best examples I know of inside-outness. Edna does not
                        like it, perhaps for that reason.
                    Mary and Horace Armstrong had gone up to Caux. "But," said
                        Neva, "they'll surely be back in a few minutes. Count von
                        Tilzer-Borgfeldt is coming at half past five."
                    I instantly recognized that name as the one Edna gave in telling me that Mary
                        had gone shopping for a title and had invested. I had thought
                        Edna's jeer produced no effect upon me. I might have known better.
                        My nature has, inevitably, been made morbidly suspicious by my business
                        career. Also, I had found out Robert Armitage as a well-veneered snob, and
                        this could not but have put me in an attitude of watchfulness toward his
                        sister, so like him mentally. Also my investigations of that most important
                        phenomenon of American life, the American woman, had compelled me to the
                        conclusion that the disease of snobbishness had infected them all, with a
                        few doubtful exceptions. So, without my realizing it, my mind was prepared
                        to believe that Mary Kirkwood was like the rest. When Neva Armstrong
                        pronounced the name Edna had given  there shot
                        through me that horrible feeling of insufferable heat and insufferable cold
                        which it would be useless to attempt to describe; for those who have felt it
                        will understand at once, and those who have not could not be made to
                        understand. And then I recalled Hartley Beechman's jeer,
                        "She's laughing at us both." But my voice was
                        natural as I said:
                    "Tilzer-Borgfeldt. That's the chap she's engaged
                        to just now, isn't it?"
                    Mrs. Armstrong, who is a loyal friend, flushed angrily. "Mary
                        isn't that sort, and you know it, for you've known her a
                        long time."
                    "Then she's not engaged to him?" said I.
                    "Yes, she is," replied Neva. "And if you knew him,
                        you'd not wonder at it. I don't like foreigners, but if I
                        weren't bespoke I think I'd have to take Tilzer-Borgfeldt
                        if he asked me."
                    "No doubt it's a first-class title," said I.
                    "You know perfectly well, Godfrey Loring, that I don't mean
                        the title." She happened to glance toward the entrance to the
                        garden. "Here he comes now. You'll judge for
                        yourself."
                    Advancing toward us was a big, happy blond man of the pattern from which nine
                        out of ten German upper-class men are cut. He had the expression of simple,
                        unaffected joy natural to a big, healthy, happy blond youth looking forward
                        to seeing his best girl. He had youth, good looks, unusual personal
                        magnetismand you will imagine what effect this produced upon my mood. I
                        could not deny that Neva was right. Without a title this man would have all
                        the chances in his favor when  he went
                        courting. He had not a trace of aristocratic futility.
                    You would have admired the frank cordiality of my greeting. Instead of
                        sitting down again I glanced at my watch and said:
                    "Well, my time's up. I shall have to go without seeing
                        Horace and Mary."
                    "But you'll come to dinner?" said Mrs. Armstrong.
                    "I'm taking the first express back to Paris," said
                        I. "I found a telegram waiting for me at my hotel."
                    "Mary will be disappointed," said Neva.
                        "You'll give Mrs. Loring my best?"
                    I remembered that the English papers, with the news doubtless in it, would
                        not reach Territet until late that evening or the following morning. But I
                        could not well tell her what had occurred. "Good-by," said
                        I, shaking hands. "Tell them how sorry I was. I may see you all in
                        Paris."
                    And away I went, with not an outward sign of my internal state. In less than
                        half an hour I was in the Paris express.
                    I stopped at Paris a month. A letter came from hera bulky letter. I tossed it
                        unopened into the fire. A week, and a second letter came. It was not so
                        bulky. I flung it unopened into the fire. About two weeks, and a third
                        letter came. I got Rossiter to address an envelope to her. I inclosed her
                        unopened letter in the envelope and mailed it. I was giving myself an
                        exquisite pleasure, the keener because it was seasoned with exquisite pain.
                    
                    All this time I had been amusing my idle days in the usual fashion. My
                        readers who lead quiet livesthe women who sit thinking what they would do if
                        only they were menthe men who slip away occasionally for a scampish holiday,
                        and return to their sober routine with the cheering impression that they
                        have been most fearfully and wonderfully devilishthose women and those men
                        will regret that I refrain from details of how I amused myself. But to my
                        notion I have said enough when I have said "in the usual
                        fashion." It passed the time as probably nothing else in the
                        circumstances would have passed such tenacious hours, every one lingering to
                        be counted. But I confess I have never been virtuous enough to be especially
                        raptured by so-called vice. No doubt those who divide actions into good and
                        bad, using the good for steady diet and the bad for dessert, have advantages
                        in enjoyment over those who simply regard things as interesting and
                        uninteresting. For, curiously enough, on that latter basis of division
                        practically all the things esteemed by most human beings as the delightful
                        but devilish dessert of life fall into the class of more or less
                        uninteresting. But for the stimulus of the notion that he is doing something
                        courageously, daringly wicked, I doubt if any but a dull fellow would
                        perpetrate vice enough to lift the most easily scandalized hands in the
                        world. The trouble with vice is that it is so tiresomeand so bad for the
                        health. And most of it is so vulgar. Drinking to excess and gambling, for
                        instance. I have indulged in both at times, when hard pressed for ways to
                        pass the time or when in those stupid moods of obstinate unreasonableness in
                        which a man takes a savage  pleasure in
                        disgusting himself with himself. Drinking has a certain coarse appeal to the
                        imaginationcoarse and slight but definite. But gambling is sheer vulgarity.
                        I have been called money mad, because I have made money, finding it easy and
                        occupying to attend to business. Yet never have I cared about money
                        sufficiently to take the faintest interest in the gaming table. Gamblingall
                        forms of itis for those sordid creatures who love money, and who have no
                        intelligent appreciation of its value. Gamblingall the vices, for that
                        matteris essentially aristocratic; for, as I believe I have explained,
                        aristocracy analyzes into the quintessence of vulgarity. The two incompetent
                        classesthe topmost and the bottommostare steeped in vice, for the same
                        reason of their incompetence to think or to act.
                    A fourth letter, the bulkiest of all, came from Mary Kirkwood. A few hours
                        before it was delivered a telegram came from her: 
                            "A letter is on the way. Godfrey, I beg you
                        
                    
                    I tore up the telegram, sent back the letter without opening it. You are
                        denouncing me as inhuman, gentle reader. Perhaps you are right. But permit
                        me to point out to you that, if I had not in my composition a vein of iron,
                        I should- never have risen from the mosquito-haunted flats of the Passaic.
                        Also, gentle reader, if I had been a man of the ordinary sort would Mary
                        Kirkwood have been sufficiently interested in me to send those letters and
                        that telegram?
                    
                    A day or so after the return of her last letter I was seizedI can't
                        say whywith a longing to see my father and mother and sister, on that lonely
                        farm out in New Jersey. I had never felt that desire since I first left
                        home, but had made my few and brief visits out of a sense of dutyno, of
                        shame. The thought of them gave me no sensation of horror, as it gave Edna
                        and her daughter. When I remembered them it was simply as one remembers any
                        random fact. They did not understand me; and in them there was nothing to
                        understand. We had few subjects for conversation, and those not wildly
                        interesting and soon exhausted. You will smile when I say I loved them. Yet
                        it is the truth. We do not always love those we like to be with; we do not
                        always like to be with those we love.
                    There was nothing to detain me in Paris. The hours hung like guests who do
                        not know how to take leave. So not many days elapsed between my seizur and
                        my appearance at the spacious and comfortable stone farmhouse where the four
                        old people were awaiting in a semi-comatose or dozing state what they firmly
                        believed was a summons to a higher life. Their belief in it, like that of
                        most religious people, was not strong enough to make them impatient to get
                        it; still they believed, and found the belief a satisfactory way of
                        employing such small part of their minds as remained awake.
                    I had not seen them or their place in several years, so I was astonished by
                        the changes. My sister Pollya homely old maidand Edna's father had
                        some glimmerings of enterprise. Polly took in and read several magazines,
                        and from them gathered odds and ends of 
                        up-to-date ideas about dress, about furnishing, about gardens. With the
                        valuable assistance of old Weeping Willie she had wrought a most creditable
                        transformation. The old people now "looked like
                        something," as the saying is. And the place had a real
                        smartnessboth within and without.
                    Pollyshe was about eight years my senior, but looked old enough to be my
                        motherPolly watched me anxiously as I strolled and nosed about. My delight
                        filled her with delight.
                    "You're not so ashamed of us, perhaps?" said she.
                    "I never have been," replied I. Nor did I put an accent on
                        the personal pronoun that would have been a hint about somebody
                        else's feelings.
                    "Wellyou ought to have been," said she. "We were
                        mighty far behind even the tail of the procession."
                    "I'll admit I like this better than the way we used to live
                        in Passaic. Polly, you've got the best there is going. All the
                        restall the luxury and other nonsense is nothing but a source of
                        unhappiness."
                    She did not answer. I noted a touching sadness in her expression.
                    "You don't agree with me?" said I.
                    "Yes, I do," replied she emphatically. "I
                        wasn't thinking of that."
                    "What have you got to be unhappy about?"
                    "You think I'm ungrateful to you," said she, with
                        quick sensitiveness. "But I'm not, Godfreyindeed
                        I'm not."
                    "Ungrateful?" I laughed. "Don't talk
                        nonsense."
                    
                    "You've done all you couldall anyone could. And in a way I
                        am happy. But"
                    "Yes?"I urged, as she hesitated.
                    "Well, I've found outlooking back over my lifeI've
                        found out that I It seems to me I've got all the tools of happiness, but nothing to work on. I keep
                        thinking, 'How happy I could be if I only had something to work
                        on!'"
                    I was silent. A shadow crept out of a black corner of my heart and cast a
                        somberness and a chill over me. "You understand?"said she.
                    I nodded.
                    "I thought you would," she went on. "Godfrey,
                        I've often felt sorry for yousorrier than I do for
                        my-self." She laid her hand on my arm. "But
                        you're a mana handsome, attractive, young man.
                        You'll have only yourself to blame if you waste your life as
                        mine's been wasted."
                    "You don't realize how lucky you've
                        been," said I, with a bitterness that surprised me.
                        "You've at least escaped marriage."
                    "I wish to God I hadn't," cried she with an energy
                        that startled me. There was a fierce look of pain in her eyes. "I
                        thought you understood. But I see you don't."
                    "What do you mean, Polly Ann?"said I gently.
                    "The real unhappiness isn't an unhappy marriage,"
                        replied she. "It's being not married at allnot having any
                        children. You know what I aman old maid. You think that means the same thing
                        as old bachelor. Well, it don't."
                    
                    "Why not?"
                    "An old bachelornine times out of ten that means simply an old,
                        selfish, comfortable man. But an old maid The nature of woman's
                        different from the nature of man. A woman's got to have a homeher homeher nest, with her children in it. And
                        I'm an old maid. If I'd been a man" She turned on
                        me. "I'm ugly, ain't I? You know I am. I know it. Dress me up in men's clothes and
                        I'd be a good-looking personas a man. But as a woman I'm
                        ugly. If I'd have been a man I could have got a mighty nice, mighty
                        nice-looking wifeone that'd have been grateful to me for taking her
                        and would have cared for me. But as a woman I couldn't get a
                        husband."
                    "You can get a very good one," said I. "Moneywhat
                        would have bought you a wife as a manwhat buys most men their wiveswill buy
                        you a husband. And he'll be grateful and loving, so long as you
                        manage the purse strings welljust as most wives are loving and grateful if
                        their husbands don't treat them too indulgently."
                    "It's different, and you know it is," retorted
                        she. "Custom has made it different. And I'm uglyand
                        that's fatal in a woman."
                    "Charm will beat beauty every time," said I.
                    "I've got no charmnone on the outside. And that's
                        where a woman's charm has to be. No, I've thought out my
                        case. It's hopeless. I'm a born old maid. No man ever
                        asked me to marry him. No man ever said a word of love to me. Do you know
                        what that means, Godfrey?"
                    
                    I was silent. A choke in my throat made speech impossible.
                    "Never a word of love," she went on monotonously.
                        "Yet I don't suppose any woman ever wanted to hear it
                        more. And no children. Yet I know no woman ever wanted them more. No, not
                        adopted childrenbut my own flesh and blood. I've heard women
                        complain of the burden of bearing a child. It made me wild to listen to
                        themthe foolsthe selfish fools! What wouldn't I have given to have
                        felt a child within me. Does it scandalize you to hear me talk like
                        this?"
                    "No," said I. "No."
                    "It's a wonder," said she, with a grim smile. She
                        was quieting down, was hiding the heart from which she had on impulse
                        snatched the veil, was ashamed of her outburst. "A woman can talk
                        about having a cancer, or a tumor, or any frightful disease inside her, and
                        nobody's modesty is shocked. But if she speaks of having a child
                        within hera wonderful, living human beinga lovely babywhy, it's
                        immodest!" She gave a scornful laugh. "What a world! What
                        a world!"
                    I looked at her and marveled. What a world, indeed!where this was one of the sort of relatives of whom pushing arrived people
                        were ashamed!
                    I think I forced myself to stay three days with them. I cannot recall;
                        perhaps I left the second day. However that may be, I have the sense of a
                        long, a very long visit. To one who has the city habit the country is
                        oppressively deliberate even when it is interesting. It makes you realize
                        how there is room, and to spare, for  sixty
                        minutes in an hour, for sixty seconds in each minute. The city entertains;
                        the country compels you to seek entertainment, to make entertainment. People
                        whose mentality tapers away from mediocrity grow old and dull rapidly in the
                        country as soon as childhood's torrential life begins to slacken.
                        For men of thought the country ought to be ideal, I should say, once they
                        formed its habit and lost the city habit of waiting in confident expectation
                        of being amused. But for men of action like myself, for men whose whole life
                        is dealing directly with their fellow men, to acquire the country habit is a
                        matter of years, of a complete revolution.
                    I brought a sore and a sick heart to the country. I took back to town one
                        that was on the way toward the normal. And I owed the improvement not to the
                        country directly, but to my sister. Polly Ann had reminded me of the
                        futility of graveyard mooning, of its egotism and hypocrisy. She had
                        reminded me that only the fool walks backward through life. I believed I had
                        been guilty of the folly of blowing a bubble of delusion, pretending to
                        myself that it was no bubble, but permanent, substantial, real. The bubble
                        had burst, as bubbles musthad burst with a mocking and irritating dash of
                        cold spray straight into my face. Well!the sensible thing to do, the only
                        thing to do, was to laugh and blow no more bubbles.
                    I went back to finance; I busied myself to the utter-most of my capacity for
                        work. But I could not uproot the idea Mary Kirkwood had set growing in my
                        mind. I saw ever more clearly that my sister was eternally right. Some men
                        might be successful bachelors. I  could be
                        fairly successful at that selfish and solitary profession for a few years,
                        perhaps for ten or fifteen years longer. But I knew with the clearness of a
                        vision trained to search the horizon of the future that the feeling of
                        loneliness, of complete futility which already shadowed me, would become a
                        black pall. Imust have companionship; and to companionship
                        there is but the one waythe way of wife and children. A poor, an uncertain
                        way; nevertheless the only way.
                    You have, perhaps, observed the marriages of the rich. You have noted that
                        every rich man and every rich woman is surrounded by a smaller or larger
                        army of satellitespersons nominally their social equals, often distinctly
                        their mental superiors, salaried persons, wearers of cast-off clothing,
                        eaters of luncheons and dinners, permanent free lodgers, constant or
                        occasional pensioners more or less disguised. Family life fails with the
                        rich as it fails with the well-off, or with the poor. But while other
                        classes revert to the herd Iife, the life of clubs, saloons, teas,
                        receptions, the rich take up the parasite-beset life, each rich person aloof
                        with his or her particular circle of flatterers, attendants, coat-holders,
                        joke-makers, and boot-lickers.
                    Now it so happened that for me there could be no enduring of this standing
                        apart in the meadow, switching my tail while parasites bit and tickled,
                        buzzed and burrowed. Riches, like any other heavy and constantly growing
                        responsibility, usually rob a man of his sense of humor and turn his
                        thoughts in upon himself and make him a ridiculous ass of an egotist. They
                        had not had that effect upon me. I can give no reason; I simply  state the fact. So, with my sense of humor
                        active, and my sense of proportion fairly well balanced, I could not give
                        myself up to the dreary life custom assigns to the rich. I retained the
                        normal human instincts.
                    I had hoped to satisfy them to the uttermost with the aid of Mary Kirkwood.
                        That hope had fallen dead. I must search onnot for the best conceivable, but
                        for the best possible.
                    You are not surprised at my lack of sentiment, gentle reader. By this time, I
                        am sure, I could not surprise you with any exhibition of that or other
                        depravity. But it confirms your conviction of my utter sordidness. So? Then
                        you imagine, do you, that there are many love marriages in the world,
                        leaving out of the count those in novels and in the twaddling gossip men and
                        women repeat as the true heart stories of this and that person? Yes, I
                        should say your intelligence was about rudimentary enough to give you such a
                        false notion of life as it is lived. Marriages of passion there are
                        a-plenty. Rarely, indeed, does a man become bill-payer to a woman for
                        lifenot to speak of the insurance without having been more or less agitated
                        by her physical charms; and usually the woman, eager to be married, whips up
                        for him a return feeling that looks well, convinces the man and herself, and
                        makes you, gentle reader, sigh and wipe your sloppy eyes. But
                        love-marriagethat's a wholly different matter. I should say it
                        almost never occurs. Where love, a sentiment of slow and reluctant growth,
                        does happen occasionally to come afterwards, because the two are really
                        congenial, really matedwhere love does come afterwards,  it did not exist when the wedding bells rang. And I doubt not
                        that love has grown as often, if not oftener, where the motives that led to
                        the marriage were practical and even sordid than where they were the bright,
                        swift fading, and in death most foul-smelling, flowers of passion.
                    I was willing to buy a wife, if I could find a woman who promised to wear
                        well, to improve on acquaintance, or, at least, not to deteriorate. And,
                        beyond question, with my money I could have taken my pick. Almost any girl
                        anywhere, engaged or unengaged, would have fallen in love with me as soon as
                        she discovered my charmsof person and of purse. Yes, would have fallen in
                        love, gentle reader. Don't you know that a nice, pure girl always
                        makes herself, or lets herself, fall in love, before she gives herself? And
                        don't you know that, except falling out of loveout of that kind of
                        lovethere's nothing easier, especially for an inexperienced girl,
                        than falling in lovein that kind of love?
                    But where was I to find a woman with enough solid quality to give me a
                        reasonable hope that she would aid me in my quest for family happiness?
                    Do not denounce me, gentle reader. Epithet and hiss are not reply. Answer my
                        question.
                    You say there are millions of such girls. Yes? But where?
                    You say there are millions of pure, sweet, charming girls, intelligent and
                        domestic. Yes. No doubt. But how long would they remain so if tempted by
                        wealth, by the example of all the money-mad, luxury-mad, society-mad women
                        about them?
                    
                    Mind you, I did not want a stupid rotter, a cow, a sitter and lounger and
                        taker on of fat and slougher off of intelligence. I did not want the lazy
                        slat-tern who poses as domestic, who is fond of home in exactly the same way
                        that a pig is fond of an alley wallow.
                    You laugh at me. You say: "He is a conceited fool!to think that he could attract and absorb an intelligent woman with a
                        complex woman's soul!" Not so, gentle reader. I did not
                        wish to attract and to absorb her. As for the "complex
                        woman's soul," the less I saw or heard of it, the better
                        pleased I'd be. I simply wanted a woman who would join me in being
                        attracted by and absorbed in family life.
                    You are still smiling mockingly. But let me tell you a few secrets of wisdom
                        and happiness. FirstFriendship is divine, but intimacy is the devil
                        himselfunless it is the intimacy of the family. SecondTo love your neighbor
                        as yourself, he must be and must remain your neighbor, that is to say,
                        within hail, but not within touch. ThirdHusband, wife, and children are the
                        only natural intimatesintimate because they have the bond of common
                        interest. The family that looks abroad for intimates has ceased to be a
                        family. FinallyA man who has his wife and children for intimates has neither
                        need nor time for other intimates; and unless a man's wife and
                        children are his intimates, he has, in fact, no wife and no children. Let me
                        add, for the benefit ofperhaps of you and your husband, gentle readerthat
                        the only career worth having is built upon and with efficient work; careers
                        made with  friendships, gaddings, pulls, and
                        the like would better be left unmade.
                    You are smiling still, in your smug, supercilious fashionsmiling at what you
                        promptly call old-fashioned trite truisms. I am not sure that, after they
                        have been thought about a while, they would seem old-fashioned or stale.
                        Rather, I flatter myself, they are the statement of a new philosophy of
                        life. For the old theory with which you are confusing these truths was that
                        the family is the social unit. In fact, it is not; the
                        only social units are individualscapable individuals. My
                        theory, or rather my philosophyfor it is more than a theorymy philosophy is
                        that the family is the unit of happiness. Society canand
                        doesget along fairly well with little or no happiness. But happiness is an
                        excellent thing, nevertheless. And I wanted it.
                    Now, perhaps, you see why I was not looking forward with any exuberance of
                        optimism to finding the woman whom I needed and wanted, and who needed and
                        wanted me. Prompted by my experiences and guided somewhat by my shrewd and
                        cynical friend Bob Armitage, I had been giving no small amount of spare time
                        to observing and thinking about the American woman. And while I admired that
                        charming lady and found her an amusing companion for an occasional leisure
                        hour, I saw that she was not to be taken seriously by a serious person. She
                        knew how to look well, how to make a good "front," how to
                        get perhaps a hundred dollars worth of pleasing surface results by
                        squandering a thousand or two thousand dollars. As an ornament,  a decoration, as a basket of rare inedible
                        fruit to irradiate lovely costliness, she could not be beaten. As wife to a
                        showy plutocrat, ignorant of the art of comfortable living, as head mistress
                        to an European noble with servants trained to maintain his state in splendid
                        and orderly discomfort, she would do excellently well. But not for the
                        practical uses of sensible life. She had no training for them, no taste for
                        them, no intention of adapting herself to them, whatever she might pretend
                        in order to catch a bill-payer.
                    Still, I did not despair. I dared not despair. If I had, lonelinessand
                        heartache, yes, heartacheand my sense of present and future futility would
                        have become intolerable. On the other hand, while there was every reason for
                        hastewhen happiness was my goal, and life is short and uncertainI was
                        resolved to be deliberate. If I should be deceivedperhaps by the
                        girl's honest self-deceptioninto choosing wrong, how she would hate
                        me! For not again would, or could I let a woman use me as Edna had used me.
                        A fool is a grown-up person who has never grown up. I had grown uphad become
                        a definite person, knowing what I wanted and what I did not want. Such
                        persons are hated by those who try in vain to use them. My one chance lay in
                        finding a woman with the same definite tastes as mine. Only disaster could
                        come through the woman who might marry me, pretending to agree with me and
                        secretly resolved to "redeem" me once she got me firmly in
                        her grasp.
                    Armitage was back in New York, was eager to resume our old relations. But
                        that could not be. I had  outgrown him. And
                        he, at the dangerous age, was allowing himself to harden into all the habits
                        of the rich class and of middle life. Despite his efforts to conceal it, I
                        saw that he had even reached the pass where a man of property regards a new
                        idea as a menace to society. If it is a new invention, it may make some
                        stock he owns worthless. If it is a new social or political idea it may make
                        his laborers demand higher wages, or in some other way affect his dividends.
                        And, of course, whenever a man speaks of a menace to society, he means a
                        menace to himself whom he naturally regards as the most precious and vital
                        thread in the social fabric. Compelled by my need for ideas to occupy me in
                        supplement to the now thoroughly familiar and rather monotonous routine of
                        investing and reinvesting, organizing and reorganizing, I was associating
                        more and more with artists and writers of the sort who feel suffocated in
                        the society of the merely rich.
                    Material conditions force upon men inexorable modes of life. And every mode
                        of life breeds a definite, distinct set of ideas. Men fancy themselves
                        original because they suddenly discover certain ideas in their brains. As
                        well might a hen who has just eaten hot bran fancy herself original because
                        she laid an egg. The idea was not from the man, but from his material
                        conditionslawyer idea, politician idea, banker idea, anarchist idea, big or
                        little merchant idea, dog-fighter idea, professor idea, preacher idea, and
                        so on. I was fighting to escape this to me repellent molding processand I
                        was making headway. But poor Armitage was rapidly yielding;  his struggle, I fear, had been in its best
                        days in large part a brassy make-believethe valor of the trumpet, not of the
                        sword.
                    He was a sorry sight. His once handsome face was taking on that petty,
                        pinched, frost-bitten Fifth Avenue expression. And he had been driven for
                        companionship into forming the familiar parasite circle. The chief figures
                        in it were a decaying dandy of an old New York family who had been fawner
                        and crumb snapper all his days, and a broken-down plutocrat who had
                        squandered his fortune on fine women, fine wine, and fine food. The dandy
                        gave Bob the fashionable gossip; the broken-down plutocrat gave him the
                        gossip and scandal of the giddy part of town, also the latest gamey stories;
                        also heperhaps botharranged for him the peculiar pleasures of the rich man
                        with the palate that needs strong sensations to make it respond.
                    Armitage was out of the question for me. Then
                    I drifted into the Amsterdam Club one eveningto write a note or send a
                        telegramand there sat Hartley Beechman. The instant he saw me he sprang up
                        and made straight for me. His expression was puzzling, but not hostilestill,
                        I was unobtrusively ready. Said he in a straight, frank fashion:
                    "Loring, I want to apologize to you. I made a damned ass of myself
                        in Green Park last summer. My excuse is that I was more than half
                        crazy"
                    I put out my hand. "I half guessed at the time," said I.
                        "I know all about it now."
                    We looked at each other with the friendliness that has become the stronger by
                        a mended breakfor broken  hearts and broken
                        lives and broken friendships are much the stronger if the break mends. Said
                        he:
                    "One way of measuring the strength of a man is the length of the
                        intervals between the times when he makes a fool of himself about a woman.
                        My first came at eighteen, my next at thirty-eight. Not a bad showing, I
                        flatter myselfeh?"
                    "Uncommonly good," said I.
                    "And the second shall be the last."
                    "Optimism!" I warned him laughingly. "Beware of
                        optimism!"
                    "No. I shall write about women, but I'll see no more of
                        them. I've got hold of myself again. I'm as good as
                        everbetter than ever, probably. Butit cost! And I'll not pay that
                        price again. For a while I thought it was you who had upset my happiness.
                        Then" He gave a loud, unnatural laugh"That German
                        purchase! I saw she had been simply playing with me. You know how fond women
                        of that sort are of playing with romantic or sentimental ideas. But when it
                        came to the testwhy, she would have married only a fortune or a
                        title."
                    I made no comment. He was saying only what I thought, what I believed true.
                        But I hated to hear it.
                    "I may wrong her," pursued he reflectively. "Not
                        altogether, but to a certain extent. I rather think the impulse to something
                        saner and less vulgar was thereactually there."
                    As he was looking at me inquiringly I said: "I think so."
                    "Butnothing came of it. And there's little in these fine
                        impulses of which nothing comes."
                    
                    "Little?" laughed I. "Why, they produce the most
                        beautiful decorative effects. Life would be barren without them. What a
                        repulsive sight the poor little human animal would be, grunting and grubbing
                        about, thinking always of its beloved selfwhat a repulsive sight if it
                        didn't wear the flowers of high ideals in its earsand the jewels of
                        fine impulses ringed in its nose."
                    "I think it would look better without
                        them," said he. "Less ridiculousless
                        contemptible."
                    "To youyes. Because you're like I amcoarse. But not to
                        itself and its fellows."
                    "I'm going back to the woods to-morrow," said he.
                    "Better come on a yachting trip to South America with me,"
                        said I.
                    He flushed. "Thank youbut I can't do that,"
                        replied he. "I can't afford it."
                    It was my turn to flush. "I beg your pardon," I said.
                        "I spoke without thinkingspoke on impulse. You are quite
                        right."
                    "A man's a fool or a sycophant who goes where he
                        can't pay his own way," continued he.
                        "I've come to realize that. I'll do it no more.
                        I'll stick to my own class. I've been justly punished for
                        blundering out of it. But not so severely punished as I should have been had
                        my" he smiled ironically" my love affair
                        prospered."
                    He thought for several minutes, then he said: "I wonderwhen the
                        clash camewould I have gone with her or she with me?"
                    I did not reply.
                    He pulled himself together, smiled mockingly at his  own folly of lingering near the unsightly and not too aromatic
                        corpse. "I must get into the woods and breathe it out of my system.
                        Did you see the account of the arrangements for her approaching marriage in
                        this evening's paper? Nearly a pageand I read every line."
                    When he had finished his drink he rose and departedand I have not talked with
                        him since. He resumed his career; we all know how brilliant it is. As I have
                        said before, I have no sympathy with the silly notion, bruited about by
                        silly flabby people that women ruin the lives of strong men. Now and then a
                        woman may be the proverbial last straw that breaks the camel's
                        back. But there's a vast difference between woman the actuality,
                        woman the mere last straw, and woman the vampire, the scarlet destroyer as
                        portrayed in novels and so-called histories. Those mighty men, made or
                        ruined by womenwhy do we never see them, why do we only
                        read about them?
                    I resisted the temptation to follow Beechman's example and read the
                        newspaper account of Mary Kirkwood's approaching apotheosis into
                        the heaven that is the dream of all true American ladies. There is but one
                        way to do a thingand that is to do it. I had destroyed or sent back the
                        letters; I had resisted the telegram. I could not yet bar my mind from
                        wandering to her. But I could avoid leading it to herand I did. So it was by
                        accident that, the following week, I one morning let my eye take in the
                        whole of a four-line newspaper paragraph before I realized what it was
                        about. The purport was that the engagement between Count  von Tilzer-Borgfeldt and Mrs. Kirkwood had
                        been broken off because of a "failure to agree as to
                        settlements." This, in the same newspaper that contained two
                        columns descriptive of the quietly gorgeous marriage of Frascatoni and Edna
                        in my son-in-law's new house near London.
                    "Failure to agree as to settlements" Faugh!
                    I had calmed until all my anger against her was gone and I was thinking of
                        her as merely human, as the result of her environment like everyone else. I
                        believed now that where she had deceived me she had also deceived herself.
                        And I saw as clearly as in the days of my infatuation that she and I had
                        been made for each other, that our coming together had been one of those
                        rare meetings of two who are entirely congenial. It filled me with sadness
                        that fate had not been kind instead of sardonically cruel, had not brought
                        us together ten years earlier, before the world had poisoned her originally
                        simple and sincere nature. But how absurd to linger over impossible
                        might-have-beens! I had gone as far as I cared to go in the company of those
                        who have made fools of themselves for love.
                    I believed I could trust myself with her in the same neighborhood. But I was
                        not sure, and I would take no chance. A few days after I read of the broken
                        engagement I departed on the yachting trip to South America.
                
                
                
                    XIV
                    THERE were but two in my partyDugdale, the playwright, and
                        myself. A more amusing man than Dugdale never lived. He was amusing both
                        consciously and unconsciously. A mountain of a manbone and muscle, little
                        fat. He had eyes that were large, but were so habitually squinted, the
                        better to see every detail of everything, that they seemed small; and his
                        expression, severe to the verge of savageness, changed the instant he spoke
                        into childlike simplicity and good humor. He made money easilylarge sums of
                        moneyfor he had the talent for success. But he spent long before he made. I
                        think it must have been his secret ambition to owe everybody in the
                        worldexcept his friends. From a friend he never borrowed. The general belief
                        was that he had never paid back a loanand I have no reason to doubt it. What
                        did he do with his borrowings? Loaned them to his friends who were hard up.
                        If the list of those he owed was long, the list of those who owed him was
                        longer. If he never paid back, neither was he ever paid.
                    He could work at sea, or anywhere elseno doubt even in a balloon. On that
                        trip he toiled prodigiously, crouched over a foolish little table in his
                        cabin, smoking endless cigarettes and setting down with incredible rapidity
                             illegible words in a tiny writing that
                        contrasted grotesquely with the enormous hand holding the pencil. He labored
                        altogether at night, after I had gone to bed. He was always astir before me.
                        He slept unbelievably little, probably kept up on the quantities of whisky
                        he drank. However that may be, he was as active by day physically as he was
                        mentally by night. He was all over the boat, always finding something to
                        dosomething for me as well as for himself.
                    The only terms on which Dugdale would consent to go were that I should keep
                        him away from New York not less than two months, and that I should take no
                        one else. I promptly assented to both conditions. It was not the first time
                        he had put me under a heavy debt of gratitude for congenial society. We had
                        made several long trips together, always with satisfaction on both sides.
                        Whatever else you may think of me, I hope I have at least convinced you that
                        I am not one of those rich men who rely for consideration upon their wealth.
                        I believe I am one' of the few rich men who can justly claim that
                        distinction. When I ask a man less well off than I am to dine with meor to
                        accept my hospitality in any wayI ask him because I want him. And I do not
                        either directly or indirectly try to make him feel that he is being honored.
                        I would not ask the sort of man who feels honored by being in the society of
                        bank accounts or of any other glittering symbols in substitute for
                        good-fellowship.
                    You will see, gentle reader, that my list was short indeed.
                    It is one of the not few drawbacks of riches that they rouse the instinct of
                        cupidity in nearly all human  beings. The rich
                        man glances round at a circle of constrained faces, each more or less
                        unsuccessfully striving to veil from him the glistening eye and the watery
                        lip of the gold hunger. Probably you know how pepsin is got for the
                        markethow they pen pigs so that their snouts almost touch food which they
                        can by no straining and struggling reach; how the unhappy creatures soon
                        begin to drip, then to slobber, then to stream into the receiving trough
                        under their jaws the pepsin which the sight of the food starts their
                        stomachs to secreting. As I have looked at the parasite circles of some of
                        my friends I have often been reminded of the pepsin pigs. Some of my friends
                        like these displays, encourage them in every way, associate solely with
                        pepsin pigs. I confess I have never acquired the least taste for that sort
                        of entertainment.
                    I have traveled the world over, and everywhere I have found men either
                        industriously engaged in cringing or looking hopefully about for some one to
                        cringe to them. Wellwhat of it?
                    I owe Dugdale a debt I cannot hope to repay. He, a light-hearted philosopher,
                        made me light-hearted. He kept my sense of humor and my sense of proportion
                        constantly active. There is a stripe of philosopher of the light-hearted
                        variety who lets his perception of the fundamental futility of life and all
                        that therein is discourage him from everything but cynical laughter at
                        himself and at the world. That sort is a shallow ass, fit company for no one
                        but the bleary, blowsy wrecks to whose level he rapidly sinks. Dugdaleand
                        Iwere of the other school. We did notat least, not habituallyexaggerate  our own importance. It caused no swelling of
                        the head in him that his name was known wherever people went to the theater,
                        or in me that I usually had to be taken into account when they did any-thing
                        important in finance. We did not measure the world or rank its inhabitants
                        according to the silly standards in general use. But at the same time we
                        appreciated that to work and to work well was the only sensible way to pass
                        the few swift years assigned us.
                    It takes a serious man to make even a good joke. A frivolous person can do
                        nothing. That is why so many of our American women, and so many of the men,
                        too, sink into insignificance as soon as the first freshness of youth is
                        gone from them. Youth has charm simply as youth because it seems to be a
                        brilliant promise. When the promise goes to protest the charm vanishes.
                    I shall reserve what I saw and heard in South America for another volume, one
                        of a different kind. I shall go forward to the following spring when I was
                        once more in New York. Edna and her daughterso I read in the newspaperswere
                        living in fitting estate in a famous villa they had taken in the fashionable
                        part of the south of France, "for the health of the two young sons
                        of the marchioness." Frascatoni was gambling at Monte Carlo,
                        Crossley was at his government post in London. I could fill in the tiresome
                        details for both the wives and the husbandsand so, probably, can you. While
                        some business matters were settling, I was turning over in my mind plans for
                        making a systematic search for a wife.
                    I count on your amusement confidently, gentle reader. If you wished a fresh
                        egg for your breakfast or a suit  of clothes
                        to be worn a few weeks and discarded, or an automobile, you would set about
                        getting it with some attention to the best ways and means. But, saturated as
                        you are with silly sentimentalities about marriage, you believe that the
                        most important matter in the worldthe matter which determines your own
                        happiness or unhappiness and also the current of posterityyou believe that
                        such a matter should be left to the lottery of chance! Well, I had long
                        since abandoned that delusion, and I purposed to establish my life with as
                        much thought and care as I gave all other matters.
                    "A dull fellow," you are saying. "No wonder his
                        wife fled from him."
                    I do not wonder that you regard as dull anything that is intelligent. To
                        ignorance intelligence must necessarily seem dull. When any subject of real
                        interest is brought up, some silly, empty-headed pretty woman is sure to
                        say, "How dull! Let's talk of something
                        interesting." And there will always be a chorus of laughing
                        assentbecause the woman is pretty. So I accept your sneer at me with a
                        certain pleasure. I wish to be thought dull by some people, including some
                        women very good to look at. But out of vanity and in fairness to Edna I must
                        acquit her of having thought me dullafter she had been about the world.
                    One evening at the Federal Club I fell in with my old acquaintance, Sam
                        Cauldwell, the fashionable physician. He was something more than thator had
                        beenbut was too lazy to use his mind when his gift for sympathetic and
                        flattering gab brought him in plenty of money. Cauldwell was a trained,
                        thoroughgoing sycophant  and snob. But he saw
                        the humorous aspect of the gods he was on his knees beforeand saw the humor
                        of his being there. He knew the kind of man I was, and liked to take me
                        aside and make sport of his deities for an hour over a bottle of wine.
                        Alsohe liked the idea of being, and of being seen, intimate with a man
                        conspicuous for wealth and for the social position of his familythe
                        ex-husband of a princess, the father of a marchioness. Gentle reader, if you
                        wish to see human nature to its depth, you must occupy such a position as
                        mine. Believe me, you are mistaken in thinking the traits you shamedly hide
                        are unique. There are others like youmany others.
                    Cauldwell was perhaps ten years older than I, but being a well-taken-care-of
                        New Yorker, he passed for a young manwhich, indeed, he was. I do not regard
                        fifty as anything but young unless it insists upon another estimate by
                        looking older than it really is. I shall assuredly be young at fifty,
                        perhaps younger than I am now, for I take better care of my health every
                        yearand I have health worth taking care of. But, as I was about to say,
                        Cauldwell had a meditative look that night as we sat down to dinner
                        together. And when he had drunk his third glass of champagne he said:
                    "Loring, why the devil don't you get married?"
                    I felt that he had something especial to say to me. I answered indifferently,
                        "Why don't you?"
                    "Very simple," replied he. "Not rich enough. To
                        marry in New York a man must be either a pauper or a Croesus."
                    "Then marry a rich girl," said I.
                    
                    "I'd have done it long ago if I could," he
                        confessed with a laugh. "But I've never been able to get
                        at the girls who are rich enough. Their mammas guard them for plutocrats or
                        titles. But you Really, it's a shame for you to stay single. I know
                        a dozen women who're losing sleep longing for youfor themselves, or
                        for some lovely young daughter."
                    "Pathetic," said I.
                    "I see that irritates you. Wellyou needn't be alarmed.
                        You're famed for being about the wariest bird in the preserves. And
                        I know you don't want that kind of woman. Why not take the kind you
                        do want?"
                    "Where is she?"said I.
                    "I could name a dozen," rejoined he. "But I
                        shan't name any. I have one in mind. A doctor has the best
                        opportunity in the world to find out about womenabout men, toothe truth
                        about them."
                    I laughed. "If I wanted misinformation about human nature,"
                        said I, "I'd go to a doctoror a preacher. They're
                        the depositories of all the hysterical tommyrot, all the sentimental lies
                        that vain women and men think out about themselves and their sex
                        relations."
                    His smile was not a denial. "Yes, I've been rather
                        credulous, I'll admit," said he. "And men and
                        women do tell the most astounding whoppers about themselves. Especially
                        women, having trouble with their husbands. I try not to believe, but
                        I'm caught every once in a while."
                    A gleam in his eye made me wonder whether he wasn't thinking of some
                        yarn Edna had spun for him about me. Probably. There are precious few women,
                             even among the fairly close-mouthed, who
                        don't take advantage of the family doctor to indulge in the passion
                        for romancing.
                    "But I wasn't thinking of any confession," he went
                        on. "Several women have confessed a secret passion for you to
                        mewith the hope that I'd help them. The woman I have in mind
                        isn't that sort. I don't know that she cares anything
                        about you. I only know that she's exactly the woman for
                        you."
                    "Interesting," said I.
                    "She's youngunusually prettyand in a distinguished way. She
                        knows how to run a house as a home and she's about the only woman I
                        know in our class who does. She's got a good mindnot for a woman,
                        but for anybody. And she needs a husband and children and a home."
                    He must have misunderstood the peculiar expression of my face, for he
                        hastened on:
                    "Not that she's poor. On the contrary, she's rich.
                        I'd not recommend a poor girl to you. Poor girls can think of
                        nothing but moneynaturally."
                    "Everybody, rich and poor, thinks of moneynaturally," said
                        I.
                    "Guess you're right," laughed he. "But it
                            looks worse in a poor girl."
                    "I should say the opposite. A feeding glutton looks worse than a
                        feeding famished man."
                    "At any ratethis woman I have in mind isn't poor.
                        That's not a disadvantage, is it?"
                    "Not a hopeless obstacle," said I. "By the way,
                        what are her disadvantages?"
                    
                    "Wellshe's been married before."
                    "So have I," said I.
                    "But, on the other hand, she has no children."
                    "Neither have I," said I, without thinking. I hastened to
                        add, "My only child is married."
                    "And splendidly married," said he with the snob's
                        enthusiasm.
                    "To return to the lady," said I dryly. "Why
                        don't you marry her yourself?"
                    He had drunk several more glasses of the champagne. He laughed. "She
                        wouldn't look at me. She sees straight through
                        me. She wants a man with domestic tastes. I'm about as fit for
                        domestic life as a fire-engine horse for an old maid's
                        phaeton."
                    "Wellwho is it?"said I.
                    "I'm afraid you'll think she's been at me
                        to help her. But, on my honor, Loring, she isn't that sort.
                        We've talked of you. For some reason, ever since I've
                        known herwell, I've never seen her without thinking of you. I often
                        talk of you to hernot marrying talkI'd not darebut in a friendly
                        sort of way. She listenssays nothing."
                    "But she is sickly," said I.
                    "Sickly?" he cried. He looked horrified and amazed.
                        "Good Lord, what gave you that notion?"
                    "You said you saw her often."
                    "Oh, I see. It was her brother who had the illness."
                    "All right. Bring her round and I'll look her
                        over," said I carelessly. And I forced a change of subject.
                    Had Mary Kirkwood been taking this agreeable, insidious  doctor into her confidence? I did not know. I do not know. I
                        have reasons for thinking he told the literal truth. And yetwomen are queer
                        about doctors. However, that's a small matter. The thing that
                        impressed me, that agitated me as he talked, was the picture he, by
                        implication, was making of Mary Kirkwood, alone again, and evidently
                        absolutely unattachedliving alone in the country as when I first knew her.
                    I tossed and fretted away most of the hours of that night with the result
                        that at breakfast I resolved to leave town again, to put the width of the
                        continent or of the ocean between me and temptation to folly. But one thing
                        and another came up to detain me. It was perhaps ten days later that I,
                        walking alone in the Park, as was my habit, found myself at a turning face
                        to face with her. I don't think my expression reflected credit upon
                        my boasted self-control. As for herI thought she was going to faintand she
                        is not one of the fainting kind. We gazed at each other in fright and
                        embarrassment, and both had the same child's impulse to turn and
                        flyone of those sensible, natural instincts for the shortest way out of
                        difficult situations that the cowardly conventionality of the grown-up
                        estate makes it impossible to obey. Butwe had to do something. So, we
                        laughed.
                    She put out her hand; I took it. "How well you are
                        looking," said Iand it was the truth.
                    "You, too," said she.
                    I turned to walk with her. We strolled along cheerfully and contentedly,
                        talking of the early spring, of  flowers, and
                        birds, and such neutral matters. I was fluent, she no less so. Our agitation
                        disappeared; our sense of congeniality returned. Our acquaintance seemed to
                        have jumped back to where it was before we had that first confidential talk
                        together on the yacht. After perhaps an hour, as agreeable an hour as I ever
                        spent, she said she must go home, as she had an engagement. On the way to
                        the Sixty-fifth Street entrance the conversation lagged somewhat. We were
                        both busily revolving the same thingthe matter of explanations. Now that I
                        was seeing her againa wholly different matter from inspecting my defaced and
                        smirched and battered image of herbattered by the blows of my jealousy, and
                        anger, and scornnow that I was seeing her again, I could
                        not but see and feel that she was in reality a sweet and simple and
                        attractive woman. No doubt she had her faultsas all of us havegrave faults
                        of inheritance, of education, of environment. But who was I that I should
                        sit in judgment on her? I realized that I had judged her unjustly so far as
                        her treatment of me was concerned. Assuming that she was tainted with
                        snobbishness, assuming that her defects were as bad as I had thought in my
                        worst paroxysms, still that did not alter the charms and the fine qualities.
                    "We are friends?" said I abruptly.
                    "I hope so," said she. She added: "I know
                        so."
                    "Without discussion or explanation?"
                    "That is bestdon't you think?" replied she.
                        "I amnotnot proud of some things I did."
                    "Nor I, of some things I did."
                    
                    "I should like to forget themmy own and yours."
                    "I, too. And explanations do not explain. Let sleeping dogs
                        lie."
                    She smiled and nodded. She said:
                    "The latter part of the week I'm going back to the country.
                        Perhaps you'll spend Saturday and Sunday there?"
                    "Thank you," said I. "Let me know at the Federal
                        Club if your plans change."
                    At her door we shook hands, but both lingered. Said she:
                    "I am glad we are friends again."
                    "It was inevitable," I replied. "We like each other too well not to have come round. Bitternesses and
                        enmities are stupid."
                    "And sad," said she.
                    When we met againat her house in the countrythere was no constraint on either
                        side. We knew that neither of us had the power to breach, much less to
                        remove, the barrier between us. We ignored its existenceand were content.
                    You may have observed that I have rarely been able to speak of Edna without
                        resentment. I shall now tell you why:
                    The friendship between Mary Kirkwood and me presently set the newspaper
                        gossips to talking. Our engagement was announced again and againthe
                        announcement always a pretext for rehashing the story of the matrimonial
                        bankruptcy through which each had passed. But as we were above the reach of
                        the missiles of the scandalmongers the worst that was printed produced only
                        a slight  and brief irritation. This until the
                        Princess Frascatoni began her campaign of slander.
                    I shall not go into it. I shall simply say that she ordered one of her
                        hangers-onone of the semi-literary parasites to be found in the train of
                        every rich personto attack Mary and me as keeping up an intrigue of long
                        standing, the one that was the real cause of my wife's divorcing
                        me. When I read the first of these articles I believed, from certain
                        details, that no one in the world but the Princess Frascatoni could have
                        inspired it. But with my habitual caution I leashed my impetuous anger and
                        did not condemn her until I had investigated. Is it not strange, is it not
                        the irony of fate that in every serious crisis of my life, except one, I
                        should have had coolness and self-control, and that the one exception should
                        have been when I loved Mary Kirkwood and condemned her unheard? After all, I
                        am not sure that love isn't a kind of lunacy.
                    Why did Edna engage in that campaign of slander? Why did she say to everyone
                        from this side the most malicious, the most mendacious things about my
                        relations with Mrs. Kirkwoodthat she had ignored the intrigue as long as she
                        could for the sake of her dear daughter; that it had driven her from New
                        York, had forced her to get a divorce, and so on through the gamut of
                        malignant lying? There may perhaps be a clew to the mystery in the failure
                        of her second marriageas a marriage, I mean; not, of course, as a social
                        enterprise, for there it was a world-renowned success. If the clew is not in
                        Edna's emptiness of heart and boredom, then I can suggest no
                        explanation. I imagine she had been hearing 
                        and reading the gossip about an impending marriage between Mrs. Kirkwood and
                        me until she had concluded that there must be truth in itand by outrageous
                        slander she hoped to make it impossible.
                    The first effect was as she had probably calculated. Mary and I avoided each
                        other. Mary hid herself and would see no one. Armitage and I for a time kept
                        up a pretense of close friendship, or, rather, publicly again pretended a
                        friendship that had long since all but ceased. But when the talk both in the
                        newspapers and among our acquaintances grew until the "at last
                        uncovered scandal" was the chief topic of gossip, he and I almost
                        stopped speaking. You may wonder why he or I or both of us did not
                        "do something" to crush the absurd lie. Gentle reader, did
                        you ever try to kill a scandal? It is done in novels and on the stage; but
                        in life the silly ass who draws his sword and attacks a pestilent fog
                        accomplishes nothingbeyond attracting more attention to the fog by his
                        absurd and futile gesticulations. The world had made up its nasty little
                        mind that the relations between Mary Kirkwood, divorced, and Godfrey Loring,
                        divorced, were not, and for years had not been, what they should be. And the
                        matter was settled. I think Armitage himself believed. I know Beechman
                        believed, for he pointedly crossed the street to avoid speaking to me.
                    I stood this for a month. Then I went down to Mary's place on Long
                        Island.
                    You may imagine the excitement my coming caused among the honest yeomanry
                        gathered at the stationthose worthy folk who peep and pry into the business
                        of their fashionable overlords, and are learning to cringe  like English peasants. I found Mary setting
                        out for a ridethrough her own grounds; she was ashamed to venture abroad. I
                        came upon her abruptly. Instead of the terror and aversion I had steeled
                        myself to meet, I got a radiance of welcome that made my heart leap. But in
                        an instant she had remembered and was almost in a panic.
                    "Please send the groom away with the horse," said I.
                        "Let us walk up and down here before the house."
                    She hesitated, obeyed.
                    The broad space before the house was laid out in hedges and blooming beds
                        with a long, straight drive leading in one direction to the highroad, in the
                        other direction to stable, carriage house, and garage. When we were securely
                        alone I said:
                    "Have you missed me?"
                    "Our friendship meant a lot to me," replied she.
                    "I have discovered that it's the principal thing in my
                        life," said I.
                    We paced the length of the drive toward the lodge in silence. As we turned
                        toward the house again I said:
                    "I have chartered the largest yacht I could getfor a cruise round
                        the world."
                    A pause, then she in a constrained voice: "When do you
                        start?"
                    "Immediately," I answered. "Perhaps
                        to-morrow."
                    She halted, leaned against a tree, and gazed out through the shrubbery.
                    "You've not been well?" said I.
                    "I never am, when I lose interest in life," replied she.
                        "You will be gonelong?"
                    
                    "Long," said I. "Either we shall not see each
                        other again for yearsor" I paused.
                    After a wait of fully a minute she looked inquiringly at me.
                    "Mary," said I, "shall we take a motor launch and
                        go over to Connecticut and be married?"
                    She began to walk again, I keeping pace with her. "It's the
                        only sensible thing to do," said I. "It's the
                        only way out of this mess. And to-morrow we'll sail away and not
                        come back untiluntil we are good and ready."
                    I waited a moment, then went on, and I had the feeling that I was saying what
                        we were both thinking: "We've had the same experiencehave
                        been through the same bankruptcy. It has taught us, I thinkI hopeI
                        can't be sure; human nature learns slowly and badly. But I see a
                        good chance for usnot to be utterly and always blissfully happy, but to get
                        far more out of life than either is gettingor could get alone."
                    As we turned at the group of outbuildings she looked at me and I at hera look
                        straight into each other's souls. And then and there was born that
                        which alone can make a marriage successful or a life worth the living. What
                        is the difference between friendship and love? I had thoughtand saidthat
                        love was friendship in bloom. But as Mary and I looked at each other, I knew
                        the full truth. Love is friendship set on fire. We did not speak. We glanced
                        hastily away. At the front door she halted. In a quiet, awed voice she said:
                    "I'll change from this riding suit."
                    And what did I say, gentle reader, to commemorate  our standing upon holy ground? I did no better than she.
                        With eyes uncertain and voice untrustworthy and hoarse I said:
                    "And tell your maid to pack and go to town with the trunksgo to the
                        landing at East Twenty-third Street. Can she be there by four or five this
                        afternoon?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Then I'll see you at the bayat the launch wharfin half an
                        hour? I've got to send off a telegram."
                    "In half an hour," said she, and with a grave smile and a
                        wave of her crop she disappeared into the house.
                    At seven that evening we steamed past Sandy Hook. At tenafter an almost
                        silent dinnerwe were on deck, leaning side by side at the rail, near the
                        bow. We were alone on the calm and shining sea. No land in sight, not a
                        steamer, not a sailnot a sign of human existence beyond the rail of our
                        yacht. Her arm slipped within mine; my hand sought hers. Not a sail, not a
                        streamer of smoke. Alone and free and together.
                    I forgive you, gentle reader. Go in peace.
                    THE END
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE BOOKS OF DAVID GPMIAM PHILLIPS
                A certain well-known person once said: "David Graham Phillips's
                    novels either ought to be suppressed or everybody should be forced to read them,
                    and to be quite frank, I don't really know just which!" Two
                    divergent views, both of which have their followers among the reading public.
                That is to say, Mr. Phillips has taken as his theme a new-old plan to picture
                    through the medium of fiction the absolutely true, unaffected conditions of this
                    strange stage in civilization which we call American Life. He might write essays
                    upon what we call the "American"a man or a woman who is
                    German, French, Swedish, Italian, Englishanything but Americanand a few
                    intellectual students might read them. His mind tends, however, toward dramatic,
                    visualized forms of presentation, and hundreds of thousands of people read him.
                    They have not been in the habit of reading the dramatic truth. They have become
                    accustomed to well-colored romance. Consequently, they first rail against him
                    for not telling the truth and then discover that to their own personal knowledge
                    he is actually writing truthunvarnished truthin every line. No man in this
                    country,  or for that matter in any other, has so
                    dissected woman's character as this clear-headed, keen bachelor. No man
                    has so clearly shown the modern mental processes of American business men as
                    hethis writer of books who never entered the business arena.
                In this present book
                
                    THE HUSBAND'S STORY
                    by the use of the first person in his narrative he gives not only a
                        faithfully true picture of the social climber in American womanhood, the
                        undertaker's daughter in Passaic who climbs through
                        Brooklyn's church workers and New York's charity and East
                        Side into English society and European chateau lifenot only this, but the
                        most cold-blooded and accurate presentation of a certain type of
                        money-making, hard-working, commercial man. It is doubtful if there has, in
                        many years, been a more terrible arraignment of the financier put into
                        print. And yet the man tells his own story! One might well say it is so
                        condemnatory that it should be suppressed, or that it is so true and shows
                        up the evil tendencies of our civilization so graphically that every-body
                        should be forced to read it to learn what must be avoided.
                    That is perhaps the key-note of all of Mr. Phillips's booksfirst to
                        interest his readers and then to show them the evil of their ways in such a
                        manner that they  shall tend forever after to
                        avoid it. Take, for example, his
                
                
                    THE HUNGRY HEART
                    It is the story of a busy man who feels that his wife is his housekeeper and
                        the mother of his children, while his real aim and purpose in life is his
                        work. The book, however, follows ruthlessly and surely this simple situation
                        to a ghastly development, which, horrible as it is, is natural, inevitable,
                        and trueso true!once the start is made. Every reader is interested; no
                        reader likes it. Why? Because it is so absolutely true. We would like to
                        hide our heads under a pink shade and think all the world is roseate. We
                        hate to see our marital existence painted before us in cold lights with not
                        a touch of romance to make it seem desirable.
                    Again, in
                
                
                    The Fashionable Adventures of JOSHUA CRAIG
                    every woman who feels can see what must happen when she is drawn to and
                        marries a really great and strong character with the idea that she can tame
                        him and smooth him down. It is not a pleasant denouement, but it is an
                        absolutely true one.
                    It is only fair to say that there enters here, as in other books of Mr.
                        Phillips's, an attitude toward public 
                        and private morality which divides the American public into two camps on
                        another score. Shall we dream of what should be, or shall we look the
                        ghastly truth in the face? Shall a child love Santa Claus and wake up some
                        day to a shock, or shall the same child learn at the start that Santa Claus
                        is a beautiful myth? Shall we say that there is more altruism to-day than at
                        any time in all history, or shall we say that there is more misery at our
                        own doors this minute than has ever been known before? David Phillips would
                        say that in each of these three instances two perfectly legitimate points of
                        view have been presented, but that he believed that more good could be done
                        to the greatest number by showing up the evil truth which may thus be
                        understood and avoided than by preaching the ideal with the hope that
                        aspiration thereto might lead to accomplishment.
                    Mr. Phillips's view is that of Tolstoi, Balzac, Savonarola, Ibsenthe
                        view of the crusader, and he has followed it faithfully in the past, as he
                        proposes to do in the future. Many might disagree with him on his choice of
                        method, but no one can deny the value of the other method.
                    This same purpose shines through the pages of
                
                
                    OLD WIVES POD NEW
                    the ghastly situation that arises every day in our strange life of a married
                        pair who grow unequally as their fortune and social position changeof the
                        man who moves on and up and the woman who sits still. No one can  fail to see the truth of this picture, for he
                        has only to read the newspapers to-morrow morning and he will find somewhere
                        therein the story in real life of those two imaginary, but living, vibrating
                        people.
                    Thus every year Mr. Phillips writes out of the knowledge of his experience
                        and of what he sees and reads and observes. Any reader can find the plots of
                        his stories in the contents of any number of hundreds of metropolitan
                        newspapers. Any of his plots can be told in a linethe woman who degenerates,
                        the man who wanders in prohibited fields, the crushing of nonentities by
                        brains, the fact that every man must make his own bed if he would lie
                        downthere are four plots of his recent novels. There could be nothing
                        simpler, nor could there be anything more vital, timely, and appropriate to
                        our national sociological existence to-day.
                    There has never been such an opportunity, because never before in the history
                        of the world has there been a nation in a state of civilization in which so
                        many people moved in a few years from the hut to the palace, and from the
                        palace to the hut. There are very few men with the ability, and at the same
                        time the education and varied experience, to handle such material. Mr.
                        Phillips is proving his title to be one of these.
                
                
                    THE SECOND GENERATION
                    breathes the same undecorated truth in every linea story so trite that one
                        would say nothing entertaining or new or interesting could be made of the
                        son of the  self-made millionaire, who goes
                        to smash and finally wakes up to the fact that father's millions
                        cannot themselves make a man.
                    One might go on through Mr. Phillips's other books, of which there
                        are many, and find in each one the author's definite purpose to
                        tell, as best he can, truthfully, without fear or favor, the story of some
                        phase of modern life in so definite a way that in time a collection of his
                        books will be a true picture of as strange a stage in civilization as has
                        ever existed. To see ourselves, not as others see us, but as we arethat is
                        Mr. Phillips's purpose, except now and then when he turns to a
                        lighter vein, as in
                
                
                    WHITE MAGIC
                    and then shows us, in his grim, humorous way, some sketches of a portion of
                        society life that many people fail to see the humor of at all. Here is the
                        daughter of the rich financier who insists on marrying an artist, and fights
                        not only the artist himself, but both her managing father and mother, until
                        everybody finally leaves his or her life work and life purpose and turns to
                        in order to help the little lady out of her difficulty.
                    The Truththat is Mr. Phillips's ceaseless work. It might be well if,
                        after all, everybody was forced to read it!
                
            
        
    
