
     ----CITATION---- 
        McCutcheon, George Barr, 1866-1928. Nedra: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2416
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
                
                    LADY TENNYS
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    NEDRA
                
                BY
                    GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON
                    Author of
                    
                    "Beverly of Graustark,"
                    
                    "Brewster's Millions,"
                    etc.
                ILLUSTRATIONS BY HARRISON FISHER
                
                    NEW YORK
                    DODD, MEAD & COMPANY
                    1905
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1905 BY DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY
                
                
                    Published September, 1905
                
            
            
            
                NEDRA
                
            
            
            
                OTHER BOOKS BY MR. McCUTCHEON
                BEVERLY OF GRAUSTARK
                THE DAY OF THE DOG
                THE PURPLE PARASOL
                THE SHERRODS
                GRAUSTARK
                CASTLE CRANEYCROW
                BREWSTER'S MILLIONS
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I The Inspiration 11
                        
                    II The Beginning of Flight 29
                        
                    III The First Obstacle 48
                        
                    IV Ready for the Sea 61
                        
                    V Mr. and Miss Ridge Sail for Manila 71
                        
                    VI Henry Veath 83
                        
                    VII Glum Days for Mr. Ridge 93
                        
                    VIII The Beautiful Stranger 101
                        
                    IX Mr. Ridegway's Amazement 108
                        
                    X A Sharp Encounter 116
                        
                    XI Discovered 132
                        
                    XII The Harlequin's Errand 142
                        
                    XIII The Confession of Veath 149
                        
                    XIV One Love against Another 158
                        
                    XV The Wreck of the Tempest Queen
                        166
                        
                    XVI The Night and the Morning 173
                        
                    XVII Was the Sea Kind? 178
                        
                    XVIII The Wonderful Land 186
                        
                    
                    XIX The First Day in the Wilds 195
                        
                    XX The Sign of Distress 204
                        
                    XXI Gods from the Sea 210
                        
                    XXII Flesh Succeeds Stone 222
                        
                    XXIII The Transformation Begins 234
                        
                    XXIV Nedra 243
                        
                    XXV The Coming of the Enemy 253
                        
                    XXVI On the Eve of Battle 264
                        
                    XXVII The Lady Tennys Reserves 270
                        
                    XXVIII To the Victor Belongs? 282
                        
                    XXIX The Other Surrender 293
                        
                    XXX Where There is No Minister 301
                        
                    XXXI The Wedding Ring 310
                        
                    XXXII The Cruiser Winnetka
                        318
                        
                    XXXIII Apparitions 325
                        
                    XXXIV The Course of True Love 331
                        
                    XXXV History Repeats Itself 340
                        
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    Lady Tennys 
                            Frontispiece
                        
                        
                    
                    Grace Vernon 90
                        
                    "'Lady Tennys You do not know how I thank God you are
                        alive'" 180
                        
                    "'Hey, there!' he yelled. `How are
                        you?'" 214
                        
                    "'They have killed you! Let them kill
                        me!'" 280
                        
                
            
            
            
            
                NEDRA
                
            
            
        
        
            
            
                NEDRA
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    THE INSPIRATION
                    A TALL young man sped swiftly up the wide stone steps
                        leading to the doorway of a mansion in one of Chicago's most
                        fashionable avenues. After pushing the button sharply he jerked out his
                        watch and guessed at the time by the dull red light from the panel in the
                        door. Then he hastily brushed from the sleeve of his coat the telltale
                        billiard chalk, whose presence reminded him that a general survey might be a
                        wise precaution. He was rubbing a white streak from his trousers'
                        leg when the door flew open and the butler admitted him to the hallway. This
                        personage relieved him of his hat, coat and stick and announced:
                    "Miss Vernon is w'itin' for you,
                        sir."
                    "How the devil did I happen to let eight o'clock strike
                        nine before I knew it?" muttered the visitor. He was at the
                        drawing-room door as he concluded this self-addressed reproach, extending
                        both hands toward the young woman who came from the fireplace to meet
                        him.
                    
                    "How late you are, Hugh," she cried, half resentfully. He
                        bent forward and kissed her.
                    "Late? It isn't late, dear. I said I couldn't come
                        before eight, didn't I? Well, it's eight, isn't
                        it?"
                    "It's nearly seventy minutes past eight, sir. I've
                        been waiting and watching the hands on the clock for just sixty
                        minutes."
                    "I never saw such a perfect crank about keeping time as that
                        grandfatherly clock of yours. It hasn't skipped a second in two
                        centuries, I'll swear. You see, I was playing off the odd game with
                        Tom Ditton."
                    He dropped lazily into a big arm-chair, drove his hands into his pockets and
                        stretched out his long legs toward the grate.
                    "You might have come at eight, Hugh, on this night if no other. You
                        knew what important things we have to consider." Miss Vernon, tall
                        and graceful, stood before him with her back to the fire. She was
                        exceedingly pretty, this girl whom Hugh had kissed.
                    "I'm awfully sorry, Grace; but you know how it is when a
                        fellow 's in a close, hard gameespecially with a blow-hard like Tom
                        Ditton."
                    "If I forgive you again, I'm afraid you'll prove a
                        begging husband."
                    "Never! Deliver me from a begging husband. I shall assert all kinds
                        of authority in my house, Miss Vernon, and you'll be in a constant
                        state of beggary yourself. You'll have to beg me to get up in the
                             morning, beg me to come home early every
                        night, beg me to swear off divers things, beg me to go to church, beg me to
                        buy new hats for you, beg me to eat things you cook, beg me to"
                    "I suppose I shall even have to beg you to kiss me," she
                        cried.
                    "Not at all. That is one thing I'll beg of you. Lean over
                        here, do, and kiss me, please," he said invitingly.
                    She placed a hand on each arm of the chair and leaned forward obediently.
                        Their lips met in a smile.
                    "You lazy thing! she exclaimed, her face slightly flushed. Then she
                        seated herself on one of the big arms, resting her elbow on the back of the
                        chair beside his head. For a few minutes both were silent, gazing at the
                        bright coals before them, the smile remaining upon their lips. Hugh had been
                        squinting between the toes of his shoes at a lonely black chunk in the grate
                        for some time before he finally spoke reflectively.
                    "I can't afford to be lazy much longer, can I? Married men
                        never have a minute's rest, you know."
                    "We're not married."
                    "No; but we're going to be, let me remind you. We are toto
                        announce it to-morrow night, are we not? It has come to that, you
                        see." He did not look very cheerful, nor did she.
                    "Yes, I suppose it's imperative. That is why aunt is giving
                        her reception,just to tell everybody we're engaged."
                    
                    "And then everybody will shake hands with us and say,
                        `Congratulations,' `How lovely,' `So surprised,'
                        `Howdy do,' and so forth, and we say `Thanks,' `How good
                        of you,' and more so forth. It will be great!" Another
                        silence and inspection of the fire, he taking an altered aim at the black
                        chunk. "Say!" he exclaimed, "wouldn't it
                        do just as well if I didn't put in an appearance to-morrow night?
                        Your aunt can announce the thing, as agreed, and you can tell 'em
                        that I have a sick uncle in Indianapolis, or have had my leg broken, or
                        something like that. Now, there's a good girl."
                    "No," she said. "We fell in love because we
                        couldn't help it, and this is the penaltyan announcement
                        party."
                    "I'll never quite understand why you
                        fell," said he dubiously.
                    "I think we were both too young to know," she responded.
                        "It seems to me that we've been in love ever since we were
                        babies."
                    "And it never hurts a baby to fall, you know," said he,
                        with fine logic. "Of course it may cripple 'em
                        permanently, but they don't know how it happened."
                    For some moments she caressed his brown hair in silence, the smile lingering
                        on her lips after it had left her eyes. His eyes closed dreamily under the
                        gentle touch of her fingers. "But, dear," she said,
                        "this is no joking matter. We have been engaged for nearly three
                        months and not a soul knows of it. We'll have to tell them how we
                        managed to keep it a secret  for so long, and
                        why,and all that. And then everybody will want to know who the bridesmaids
                        are to be."
                    "I believe I'd like to know that myself, as long as
                        I'm to walk out of the church ahead of themprovided I
                        don't get lost."
                    "Helen Grossman is to be the maid of honor. I believe I'll
                        ask Jean Robertson, Eloise Grant, Harriet Noble, Mayme McMurtrie, Ellen
                        Boyland?"
                    "Are we to have no guests?"
                    "and Effa Samuels. Won't it be a pretty set of
                        girls?"
                    "Couldn't be prettier."
                    "And now, who is to be your best man?"
                    "Well, I thought I'd have Tom Ditton," a trifle
                        confusedly.
                    "Tom Ditton! I thought you did not approve of him," she
                        cried. "You certainly did not when he came to see me so
                        frequently."
                    "Oh, he isn't such a bad sort, after all. I'd just
                        as soon have him as any one. Besides, he's an expert at it. If it
                        was left to me, I'd much rather sit behind the pulpit until it is
                        all over. People won't miss me while they've got you to
                        look at."
                    "We could be married so quietly and prettily if it were not for Aunt
                        Elizabeth," pouted Miss Vernon. "She insists on the church
                        wedding, the teas and receptions and"
                    "All that sort of rot," he interjected, as if fearing she
                        might not express herself adequately. "I like  your Aunt Elizabeth, Grace, but she'sshe's an
                        awful"
                    "Don't say it, Hugh. I know what you mean, but she
                        can't help it. She lives for society. She's perfectly
                        crazy on the subject. Aunt Elizabeth made up her mind we should be married
                        in church. I have talked myself black in the facefor your sake, dearbut it
                        was like trying to convert a stone wall. She is determined. You know what
                        that means."
                    "No wonder she's a widow," growled Hugh Ridgeway
                        sourly. "Your father served you a mighty mean trick, dear, when he
                        gave you over to her training. She might have spoiled you beyond
                        redemption."
                    "Poor father! He loathed display, too. I've no doubt that
                        is why he left me in her care until I reached the age of discretion. She was
                        not always like this. Father's money has wrought the change. Aunty
                        was as poor as a church mouse until father's death put her at the
                        head of my householdit was mine, Hugh, even if I was only six years old. You
                        know we could live pretty well on forty thousand a year."
                    "You'll have a million or so when you're
                        twentythree, dear, and I'll venture to say your aunt has saved
                        something in all these years."
                    "Oh, she had at least two hundred thousand dollars by the will. It
                        has cost her nothing to live all these years as my guardian and trustee. We
                        just had to do something with my income, you know."
                    "I don't see why you should let this fortune stand in the
                        way, Grace," growled he. "Haven't I enough  of my own to take its place?" Hugh
                        Ridgeway had a million in his own right and he could well afford to be
                        unreasonable. "The will says you are not to have your
                        father's money until you are twenty-three years old. He evidently
                        thought that was a discreet age. You are not to marry before you have
                        reached that age. I've been waiting for two years, Grace, and there
                        still remains two months"
                    "One month and twenty-eight days, Hugh," she corrected.
                    "And in the meantime we have to stay here and face all this
                        ante-nuptial wretchedness. It's sickening, Grace. We hate it, both
                        of us. Don't we? I knew you'd nod your head.
                        That's why I can't help loving you. You've got so
                        much real good hard sense about things. If your confounded Aunt
                        LizzieElizabeth, I should saywould let us get married as we wantHang it all,
                        Grace, it's our affair anyhow, isn't it? Why should we
                        permit her to dictate? It's not her wedding. She's been
                        married twice; why can't she let well enough alone?"
                    "She loves me, Hugh, after all," gently.
                    "Well, so do I. I'm willingnot perfectly willing, of
                        coursebut reasonably so, that we should wait until the twenty-third of May,
                        but I don't see why we should have the whole town waiting with us.
                        Why don't you assert yourself, dear, before it is too late? Once
                        she pulls off this announcement party, it's all off with peace of
                        mind and contentment so far as we are concerned. Of course, she'll
                             be enjoying it, but what of us? Are you
                        afraid of her?"
                    "Don't bully me, Hugh," she pleaded. He was
                        contrite at once and properly so. "She has lived for this time in
                        her life. She never has been crossed. I can'thonestly I
                        can't go to her now andquarrel. That's what it would meana
                        quarrel. She would never give in."
                    "Well, then, all hope is lost," he lamented. For some
                        minutes Miss Vernon gave no response, sitting upon the arm of the chair, a
                        perplexed pucker on her brow and a thoughtful swing to her slippered
                        foot.
                    These young people had known each other since earliest childhood. They had
                        played together with the same neighborly toys and they had grown up together
                        with the same neighborly ideals. Both had whirled in the social swing until
                        the sensation palled. The most exclusive set in town regarded them as among
                        its most popular members. It was quite natural that their wedding should be
                        the most brilliant and fashionable of the year. Their position in society
                        demanded the sacrifice, and her aunt saw the urgent need for making it,
                        notwithstanding the opposition of the young people themselves.
                    Ridgeway was a couple of years older than his affianced bride, and she was
                        just short of twenty-three. She, an orphan since early childhood, lived with
                        her widowed auntthe social gourmand, to quote Hugh Ridgewayand he made his
                        home next door with his sister and her husband. The two brown stone  houses were almost within arm's reach
                        of each other. She had painted dainty water colors for his rooms and he had
                        thrown thousands of roses from his windows into her boudoir. It had been a
                        merry courtshipthe courtship of modern cavalier and lady fair.
                        Ridgeway's parents died when he was in college, and he was left to
                        enlarge or despise a fortune that rated him as a millionaire and the best
                        catch in townat that time.
                    He was a member of the Board of Trade, but he was scarcely an operator in the
                        strictest sense of the word. If he won he whistled, if he lost he whistled.
                        It mattered little. Good looking, well dressed, generous to a fault, tainted
                        but moderately with scandal, he was a man whom everybody admired, but who
                        admired few in returna perfectly natural and proper condition if one but
                        stops to consider.
                    Miss Vernon was beautifulof that there was no question. Tall, fair,
                        brown-eyed and full of the life that loves, she ruled the hearts of many
                        andkept her hand for one. Her short, gay life had been one of luxury and
                        ease. She had known few of its cares; its vicissitudes belonged to the
                        charities she supported with loyal persistency. Her aunt, society mad. was
                        her only mentor, her only guide. A path had been made for her, and she saw
                        no other alternative than to travel it as designed. A careless, buoyant
                        heart, full of love and tenderness and warmth, allowed itself to be tossed
                        by all of the emotions, but always sank back safely into the path of duty
                        and rectitude.  It was not of sufficient moment
                        to combat her aunt's stubborn authority; it was so much easier to
                        do her own sweet will without conflict and then smile down on the
                        consequences.
                    Possibly it is true that she did not love her aunt. If that were the case,
                        she kept it well to herself. She could not have been blamed, however, for
                        disliking the dictator. Hugh Ridgeway was more or less right when he said
                        that no one in town admired the old lady. She was hard, devoid of humor,
                        wrapped up in her own selfishness; shrewd, capable and resourceful. Her
                        brother, on his deathbed, signed the instrument which made this arrogant
                        relative the arbiter of the girl's future for many years to come.
                        She was appointed guardian and trustee until legal age was attained, and as
                        such she was absolute in her power. The large fortune was to be held in
                        trust by this aunt, Mrs. Torrence, and the Hon. Stanley Goodland, until
                        Grace was twenty-three years of age. The income from the investments in
                        bonds, real estate and high-class securities was to be handled by Mrs.
                        Torrence as she saw fit in the effort to better the young woman's
                        mental and social estate. To do her justice, she performed the duties well
                        and honorably, even though her measure of human nature was not full to
                        overflowing. Grace, with a mind and heart of her own, undertook to cultivate
                        human nature from her own point of view after years of tolerance, and she
                        succeeded so well that her aunt was none the wiser.
                    
                    On one point, however, the paragon was so firm and unassailable that Grace
                        was obliged to confess failure to her lover, after weeks and weeks of
                        splendid argument. Her aunt forced an issue. The marriage of her niece was
                        to be brilliant to the verge of confusion and the ante-nuptial season was to
                        be one which the city should not forget while its promoter lived to enjoy
                        the emoluments. She knew she was making her niece unhappy, but she argued
                        that her niece was too deeply in love to appreciate the value of
                        opportunity. Besides, on her wedding day, Grace Vernon would be twenty-three
                        years of age, mistress of herself, her fortune, and her husband's
                        home. That day would end the reign of Elizabeth Torrence. The arbiter was
                        determined that the reign should end in a blaze of glory.
                    As for Grace and Hugh, they were to be married. That had been decided upon by
                        destiny years and years ago and ratified after Hugh had reached an age of
                        discretion. He said that twenty-five was the year of discretion, if not of
                        reason.
                    After the first transports, each began to consider the importance of the
                        union, not only to themselves, but to the world at large. In their
                        reflective moments they realized that the marriage would be the most
                        wonderful event in the whole history of the homes of Vernon and Ridgeway.
                        Never before had a Vernon married a Ridgeway, andvice versa. Therefore, the
                        whole world would visit upon such a  union its
                        undivided attention. That is the view all engaged people take of
                        marriage.
                    Miss Vernon had employed six weeks of argument in convincing Mr. Ridgeway
                        that a church wedding was imperative, although she admittedly preferred the
                        simpler form, where the minister conducts the ceremony in the presence of
                        two witnesses and a ring. Society demanded the exhibition. Mr. Ridgeway
                        warned her that he could not survive the ordeal and would leave her a widow
                        at the altar.
                    Their difficulties had at last resolved themselves into that condition which
                        confronts every engaged pair; and they, like others, were preparing to
                        inform the world of their intentions.
                    "There's no way out of it, Hugh," she finally
                        sighed, "unless we decide to give up the hope of getting married.
                        That would break my heart," she said, with her rarest smile.
                    "This would be the most delightful period of my life if it were not
                        for that distressing announcement, the two months of purgatory between now
                        and the day of the wedding, and then thecalamity. I know it will be a
                        calamity. I can't get through it alive."
                    "You poor boy! I wish we could have a quiet little wedding. It would
                        be so sweet, wouldn't it, dear?" she said plaintively,
                        wistfully.
                    "But instead we are to have a hippodrome. Bah!" he
                        concluded spitefully. "I wouldn't talk this way, dear, if
                        I didn't know that you feel just as I do about it. But,"
                        and here he arose wearily, "this sort of talk  isn't helping matters. It's a case of church
                        against choice. To-morrow night we'll tell 'em, and then
                        we'll quit sleeping for two months."
                    "There's only one way out of it that I can see. We might
                        elope," she said laughingly, standing before him and rubbing the
                        wrinkles from between his eyes.
                    Gradually his gray eyes fell until they looked into hers of brown. A mutual
                        thought sprang into the eyes of each like a flash of light plainly
                        comprehensive. He seized her hands, still staring into her eyes, and an
                        exultant hope leaped to his lips, bursting forth in these words:
                    "By George!"
                    "Oh, we couldn't," she whispered, divining his
                        thought.
                    "We can! By all that's good and holy, we'll
                        elope!" Hugh's voice was quivering with enthusiasm, his
                        face a picture of relief.
                    "Honestly, do youdo you think we could?" The
                        girl's eyes were wide with excitement, her cheeks burning.
                    "Can we? What's to prevent? Will you do it, Gracewill
                        you?" cried he.
                    "What will everybody say?"
                    "Let 'em say. What do we care? Won't  be
                        the greatest lark that ever happened? You're the smartest woman in
                        the world for thinking of it."
                    "But I wasn't in earnest," she protested.
                    "But you are nowwe both are. Listen: We can  slip away and get married and nobody will be the wiser and
                        then, when we come back, we can laugh at everybody."
                    "And get our pictures in the papers."
                    "Then, by Hokey! we won't come back for five years!
                        How's that? That'll fool 'em, won't it?
                        Say, this is great! Life is worth living after all. You'll go,
                        won't you, Grace?"
                    "I'd go to the end of the world with you, Hugh,
                        but"
                    "Oh, say you'll go! Now, listen to this," he
                        urged, leaping to his feet. "We're going to be married
                        anyway. We love one another. You can't be married until the
                        twenty-third of May. Lots of people elopeeven in the best of families. Why
                        shouldn't we? If we stay here, we'll have to face all the
                        sort of thing we don't like"
                    "Yes, but it won't take us two months to elope,"
                        she protested. "Sh! Don't speak above a whisper. Aunt
                        Elizabeth has wonderful ears."
                    "By Jove, darling, I believe you're two-thirds willing to
                        try it on," he whispered.
                    "We must be sensible, Hugh. You see, I can't be married
                        until the twenty-third of May. Well, aunt is determined to announce the
                        engagement to-morrow night. Don't you see we couldn't
                        elope until the twenty-second at best, so we're doomed for two
                        months of it in spite of ourselves. If we get through the two months why
                        should we elope at all? The worst will be over?"
                    
                    "We can't escape the announcement party, I'll
                        admit, but we can get away from all the rest. My scheme is to elope to a
                        place that will require seven or eight weeks' time to reach.
                        That's a fine way to kill time, don't you
                        see?"
                    "My goodness!"
                    "Why not? We can do as we like, can't we? And what a bully
                        lark! I'd be a downright cad to ask you to do this, Grace, if I
                        didn't love you as I do. We can use assumed names and all
                        that!"
                    "Oh, dear, dear, doesn't it sound lovely?" she
                        cried, her cheeks red with excitement.
                    "The twenty-third of May isn't so far off after all, and it
                        won't be half so far if we're doing something like this.
                        Will you go?"
                    "If I only could! Do you really think wewe could?"
                    "Whoop!" he shouted, as he seized her in his arms and
                        rained kisses upon her face. Then he held her off and looked into her eyes
                        for a moment. Then he gave another whoop, kissed her, released her and did a
                        wild dance about the room. She stood beside the big chair, equally as
                        excited, laughing unrestrainedly at his hilarity. At last he brought up at
                        the other side of the chair.
                    "But where couldI mean, shall we elope to?" she finally
                        asked.
                    "Anywhere. BombayAustralia? Let's make it a stunner,
                        dearlet's do it up right."
                    "And be married away over there? Oh, Hugh!"
                    
                    "Certainly. They can marry us over there as well as anywhere. Here,
                        I'll write the names of ten placesand we'll draw one from
                        my hat." He sat down before a table and feverishly wrote upon the
                        backs of a number of his calling cards the names of as many cities, his
                        companion looking over his shoulder eagerly. Without ado he tossed the cards
                        into a jardinire in lieu of a hat. "Draw!" he said
                        tragically.
                    "Wait a minute, Hugh. What have we to elope from? There
                        isn't the faintest objection in the world to our
                        marriage."
                    "There you gobacking out!"
                    "No; I'm just as willing as you, but doesn't it
                        seem rather absurd?" Her hand hung over the jardinire
                        irresolutely.
                    "It will be the greatest wedding tour that mortals ever took.
                        Draw!"
                    "Well, then, there's the card. Mercy!" she cried,
                        dropping a card on the table. "That's a long distance,
                        Hugh."
                    He picked up the card and his face paled a little as he read:
                    "Manila!"
                    They sat down in the chair, she on the arm as before. After a moment he
                        glanced at her perplexed face, and asked:
                    "Are you afraid to go, Grace?"
                    "It isn't that, Hugh. I was just wondering if we could
                        reach Manila by the twenty-third of May. It  is
                        unlucky to change the wedding day after it has been once selected,"
                        she said softly.
                    "Grace Vernon, you are an angel. I was afraid you would show the
                        white feather. It's a go, thenManila! We can start next week and
                        get there in good time."
                    "Next week? Impossible!" she cried in alarm.
                    "Nonsense! You can get ready for a trip to New York, making your
                        preparations for a sea voyage secretly. I'll attend to all the
                        details. It will be easy. No one will ever dream of what we are doing until
                        we cable the news home to your aunt."
                    "Oh, I must tell Aunt Elizabeth!"
                    "Not much! That's no way to elope. We must do it correctly
                        or not at all. Nobody is to know until we are really married. Can you get
                        ready in a week?"
                    "If I really must."
                    "Can't take any more time than that if we want to reach
                        Manila in time for the wedding."
                    "Oh, Hugh! We can't go to Manila!" she cried,
                        suddenly starting to her feet in distress. "My Uncle Harry lives
                        there. He is my mother's only brother and he's been there
                        since the close of the war. He's in the hemp business. Oh, dear!
                        How provoking!" she concluded almost piteously.
                    "It's fine!" he exclaimed jubilantly. "We
                        can be married at his home. I'm sure he'll be happy to
                        have us. You can write and tell him we're coming, dear.
                        Lord!" with great relief in his voice, "that simplifies
                        matters immensely. Now we have an excuse for going  to Manila. But above all things don't cable to him.
                        Write a nice long letter and mail it just before we start."
                    She was silent a long while, staring soberly at the blaze in the grate.
                    "There'll be no bridesmaids and ushers over there,
                        Hugh."
                    "We don't want 'em."
                    Silence for a few minutes.
                    "In a week, did you say?"
                    "Positively."
                    "Well, I'll be ready," she said solemnly.
                    He kissed her tenderly, lovingly, pressed her cold hand and said
                        encouragingly:
                    "We'll meet in New York next Monday afternoon. Leave
                        everything to me, dear. It will be much pleasanter to go by way of London
                        and it will help to kill a good deal of time."
                    "Hugh," she said, smiling faintly, "I think
                        we're proving that father was right. I can't possibly
                        arrive at the age of discretion until I am twenty-three and
                        past."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    THE BEGINNING OF FLIGHT
                    MR. RIDGEWAY paced back and forth
                        outside the iron gates in the Grand Central Station on the afternoon of
                        April 1st, 190, a smile of anticipation and a frown of impatience
                        alternating in his fresh, young face. Certain lines of care seemed to have
                        disappeared since we saw him last, nearly a week ago, and in their stead
                        beamed the light of a new-found interest in life. Now and then he took from
                        his pocket a telegram; spectators stared amusedly at him as he read and
                        reread: 
                            
                                
                                    DETROIT, MICHIGAN,
                                        March 31, 190. 
                                            To H. B. Ridge:
                                        
                                    
                                    Got away safely. Meet me Forty-second Street, New York,
                                        to-morrow at three. Feel awfully queer and look a fright.
                                        Sympathetic lady, next compartment, just offered condolences
                                        for loss of my husband. What are the probabilities of storm?
                                        Be sure and find out before we start.
                                    
                                        SISTER GRACE.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    "Isn't that just like a girl!" he muttered to
                        himself.
                    "Where else would Forty-second Street be but New York!
                        London?"
                    
                    They had decided to travel as brother and sister and to adopt Ridge as the
                        surname. Hugh had taken passage for Liverpool on the liner Saint Cloud, to sail on the second, having first examined the list
                        of passengers to ascertain if there were any among them who might know him
                        or his companion in the adventure. The list was now complete, and he,
                        assured that there was no danger of recognition, felt the greatest weight of
                        all lifted from his mind.
                    He had also considerately inquired into the state of the weather and learned
                        that it promised well for the voyage. The whole affair was such a glorious
                        lark, such an original enterprise, that he could scarcely restrain himself
                        in his exhilaration from confiding in his chance hotel acquaintances.
                    Purposely, the night before, he had gone to an hotel where he was unknown,
                        keeping under cover during the day as much as possible. According to the
                        prearranged plan, they were to go aboard ship that evening, as the sailing
                        hour was early in the morning.
                    He was waiting for her train. Every now and then his glance would shoot
                        through the throng of people, somewhat apprehensively, as if he feared,
                        instead of hoped, that some one might be there. This searching glance was to
                        determine whether there might be any danger of Chicago or New York
                        acquaintances witnessing the arrival of the person for whom he waited. Once
                        he recognized a friend and dodged quickly 
                        behind a knot of people, escaping notice. That is, why he audibly
                        muttered:
                    "Thank Heaven!"
                    Every nerve was tingling with excitement; an indescribable desire to fly, to
                        shout, to race down the track to meet the train, swept through him. His
                        heart almost stopped beating, and he felt that his face was bloodless. For
                        the twentieth time in the last two hours Ridgeway looked at his watch and
                        frowningly exclaimed:
                    "Only five after two! Nearly an hour to wait!"
                    He sat down for a moment, only to arise the next and walk to the board
                        announcing the arrival of trains. Almost immediately one pulled into the
                        station. Perceiving a bystanderone of the sort that always give the
                        impression of being well-informedhe inquired casually where it was from.
                    "Chicago," was the ready answer.
                    "Great Scott! Lucky I came early! Grace's idea of timeoh,
                        well, only the small matter of an hour out of the way."
                    Quickly he sprang forward, taking up a good position to watch. First came a
                        man hurriedly and alone. A bunch of people followed him. Hugh peered
                        unsuccessfully here and there among them. Another bunch; she was not in it,
                        and he began to feel a trifle, nervous. Now came the stragglers and he grew
                        bewildered. Finally, the last onea woman hove in sight. With renewed hope he
                        scanned her approach. It was not Grace! His brain was in a whirl. What  could have happened? Where was she? Again he
                        jerked out the telegram.
                    "Meet me Forty-second Street, New York, at three," he read
                        half-aloud. "Nothing could be plainer," he mused in
                        perplexity.
                    "No train at three; another atshe must be on a later
                        one."
                    "What time is the next Chicago train due?" he inquired
                        anxiously at the Information Bureau.
                    "Five-thirty, sir," politely answered the official.
                    "Five-thirty!" he repeated disgustedly.
                    Again the telegram was brought out and this time shown.
                    "On what road did you expect the lady?" was the question
                        put with well-simulated interest that every few minutes was practised on
                        different individuals.
                    "Road?" Hugh stared blankly at his questioner.
                    "What road?" Then, like a flash, the solution of the
                        problem pierced his brain.
                    "What an ass I am!" he burst out, and added sheepishly:
                        "West Shore!"
                    Purposely avoiding the other's face for confirmation of his
                        self-depreciatory exclamation, together with its unmistakable expression of
                        professional tolerance for the imbecilities of mankind, Hugh looked at the
                        time. It was two-thirty. Tearing out of the station, he hailed a cab.
                    Inside, and moving fast, he winced a little as he thought of his late
                        strictures on girls and their ways. What a shame to have abused Grace, when
                        he himself had told her to take the Wabash as essential to their  plan. What a blooming idiot he was! New York
                        in the telegram meant, of course, the New York side of the river. He
                        recovered his equanimity; the world was serene again.
                    With a sharp pull the cabman brought up at the ferry and Hugh took his stand
                        among those waiting for the boat to disgorge its load of passengers.
                    At that moment a thought struck him, and acting on it, he called out:
                    "Hi! porter!"
                    "Here, sir!"
                    "Where can I get some note paper?"
                    "All right, sir!" and in an instant a pad of paper was
                        forthcoming.
                    Hugh took out his pencil and wrote a brief note. Then, in a low voice, he
                        said:
                    "Here, porter! I want you to do something for me."
                    "Yes, sir!"
                    "I'll make it worth your while, but I won't have
                        you attending to any one elseunderstand?"
                    The porter demonstrated with a nod his perfect comprehensiion of what was
                        required, and there followed from his employer a minute description of the
                        lady.
                    "Young, slight, tall, fair, black hat and veil, and"
                    "In mourning, sir, undoubtedly?"
                    "Mourning! No, of course not. Cannot a lady  wear black without being in mourning?" Hugh
                        expostulated sharply.
                    "Certainly, sir; but generally"
                    Whatever costume the worldly-wise porter would have approved as en rgle for a lady, under conditions to his thinking so obviously
                        indiscreet, the description was forestalled by the ingenuous young man, who,
                        dissimilarly apprehensive and oblivious to the innuendo, was heard to
                        grumble:
                    "What on earth is the matter with people? Everybody seems to delight
                        in painting this most delectable of undertakings in the most funereal
                        colors!" and went on anxiously: "You're sure you
                        won't miss her?"
                    With an indulgent smile for the youth and inexperience of his patron, and
                        glancing surreptitiously at the size of the bill in his hand, the attendant
                        calmly announced that there was not the faintest possibility of an error. He
                        took his position a little to the right of and behind Hugh, like an adjutant
                        at dress parade. Through the ferry rushed the weary, impatient travellers.
                        Owing to the place Hugh had taken at one side of the run, Grace, at first,
                        did not perceive him. Anxiety, almost fright, showed in her face; there
                        passed through her a thrill of consternation at the thought that perhaps he
                        had not received her telegram. The tense figure clasped the travelling-bag
                        convulsively, and her brown eyes flashed a look of alarm over the waiting
                        throng. Another moment and their gaze met; a voice ringing with happiness
                             assailed her; her heart throbbed again,
                        and the blood rushed back to her troubled face.
                    Hugh started forward.
                    "Hello, old man!" came suddenly from out of the crowd, and
                        two heavy bags plunked down on the floor; two strong hands grabbed Hugh by
                        the shoulders and their owner cried out boisterously: "What in the
                        name of all the gods are you doing here in New York?"
                    Hugh's heart was in his mouth. His blood froze within him. For,
                        shaking him with the embrace of a playful bear, was his old friend McLane
                        Woodshis chum at Princeton.
                    Dazed, and not daring to look up, the entangled man made a wild, imploring
                        gesture to the porter. The latter caught it, stepped forward and placed the
                        note in the girl's hands.
                    "In case I am held up, go to the Astor. Will follow," were
                        the words she read quickly. With ready wit and only one stealthy glance at
                        the two men, Grace speedily followed in the wake of the too obsequious
                        porter, who placed her in a cab.
                    "To the Astor!" was the transferred instruction. The
                        cabman, quick to note the ambiguity in the direction given, prepared, with
                        the subtlety of his kind, for a long drive downtown.
                    However, the little comedy had not quite escaped attention. There was a note
                        of banter in the strident voice that again addressed Hugh, the speaker
                        accompanying it with a resounding slap on the back.
                    
                    "Congratulations in order, old man? Comeyou're caughtown
                        up! Who is she?" This with a cronylike dig in the ribs. "Runaway match, eh?"
                    
                    At the other's greeting, Ridgeway promptly assured himself that all
                        was lost, and was about to return the welcome as best he could, when the
                        danger in the final words checked him, compelled a subterfuge.
                    Assuming a stony glare, an unnatural twist of the mouth, the "old
                        man" turned his bewildered glance upon the speaker, allowing it to
                        resolve itself into a sickening show of reproachfulness, and said in a voice
                        that almost made its owner laugh, it was so villainously artificial:
                    "You have the best of me, sir!"
                    An amazed expression came over the face of Mr. Woods. His glowing smile
                        dwindled into an incredulous stare.
                    "Don't you know me, Hugh?" he finally demanded,
                        half indignantly.
                    "I do not, sir. My name is not Hugh, by the way. It is evident that
                        you mistake me for some one else," answered Mr. Ridgeway solemnly
                        and gutturally.
                    "Do you mean to sayoh, come now, old man, don't stand up
                        there and try to make a monkey of me. When did you get in?" cried
                        Woods.
                    "Pardon me," sharply responded the other, "but I
                        must insist that you are mistaken. I am Dr. James Morton of Baltimore. The
                        resemblance must be remarkable."
                    Woods glared at Hugh, perfectly dumb with amazement.  He passed his hand over his eyes, cleared his throat a time or
                        two, but seemed completely at a loss for words to express himself.
                    "Are you in earnest?" he stammered. "Are you not
                        Hugh Ridgeway of Princeton, ninety" but Hugh interrupted him
                        politely.
                    "Assuredly not. Never was at Princeton in my life. Yale. Will you
                        give me your name and the address of your friend, please? By Jove,
                        I'd like to hunt him up some time!" Hugh was searching in
                        his pockets as if for a pencil and memorandum-book and waiting for his old
                        chum to give him his name.
                    "Well, of all the" muttered Woods, looking into the
                        other's face penetratingly. "I never heard of anything
                        like it. My name is McLane Woods, and the man who looks like you is Hugh
                        Ridgeway of Chicago. II'll be hanged if it isn't too
                        strange to be true."
                    "Very strange, indeed," smiled Hugh, striving to maintain
                        the expression he had assumed at the beginninga very difficult task.
                    "But this isn't all. At Newburg, I boarded the train, and
                        happening to go through, I saw some one that I could have sworn was a Miss
                        Vernon, whom I met when visiting Ridgeway in Chicago. I started to speak to
                        her; but she gave me such a frigid stare that I sailed by, convinced that I
                        was mistaken. Two such likenesses in one day beats my time. Doesn't
                        seem possible, by George! it doesn't," exclaimed the
                        puzzled New Yorker, his eyes glued to the countenance  of the man before him, who, by the way, had almost betrayed
                        himself at the mention of Miss Vernon's name. A thrill of
                        admiration ran through him when Woods announced his reception by the clever
                        girl who was running away with him.
                    "I'll do my best to meet this Mr. Ridgeway. I am frequently
                        in Chicago," said he. "Glad to have met you, Mr. Woods,
                        anyhow. If you are ever in Baltimore, hunt me up. I am in the E
                        Building."
                    "With pleasure, doctor: how long will you be in New
                        York?"
                    "I am going away to-morrow."
                    "Won't you come with me to my club?" began Woods,
                        but Hugh interrupted by beckoning to the omnipresent porter.
                    "Thanks! Much obliged! Like to, you know, but have an
                        appointment!" And, shaking his hand,
                        "Good-by!"
                    "Good-by!" gasped Woods reluctantly, as if desiring one
                        word more. But Hugh, with a grin on his face that awakened renewed
                        expectations on the part of the porter, was making, stiff and straight, for
                        the baggage-toom. Once, looking back over his shoulder, he saw that Woods
                        was standing stock still; and again, with another smile, he watched his
                        mystified friend slowly depart.
                    "Now, then, my man, tell me quicklyyou gave her the note? What did
                        she do? Where did she go? Out with itwhy don't you
                        speak?"
                    "All right, sir. Everything's all right. The lady  has gone to the hotel," replied the
                        man as soon as Hugh gave him a chance to answer.
                    "Good. Find me another cab, quick. And here," handing him a
                        dollar.
                    Meanwhile, Grace Vernon, quite sanguine of soon being with Hugh, was
                        approaching the lower part of the city, reasoning, quite logically, that a
                        downtown hotel was selected on account of the probable absence of the
                        ultra-fashionable set. There, their secret would be safe,and also they would
                        be nearer the steamer.
                    Arriving at her destination, Grace dismissed the disappointed cabman, and
                        entered the ladies' waitingroom, where she rang for the clerk.
                    "Is there a Mr. Ridge staying here?" she asked of him with
                        an assurance that, she flattered herself, was admirably assumed.
                    "No such person with us, madam. Were you expecting
                        him?"
                    "Why, yes," she replied, a little confused. "He
                        should be here any minute."
                    And to his inquiry as to whether she would require anything in the meantime,
                        there came a reply in the negative and he departed.
                    With a sigh of relief at being alone, she crossed over to a desk and busied
                        herself in writing a long letter. This accomplished, she arose, moved over
                        to the window and looked out. The waiting-room faced the main artery of the
                        city, and below her was the endless stream of humanity. Endeavoring to check
                        a slight feeling of uneasiness that was fast coming  over her at Hugh's unexpected non-appearance, she
                        tried to concentrate her thoughts on the panorama of the streets. A half
                        hour passed. Then, in spite of herself, nervousness assailed her. What could
                        be keeping him? Had he met with an accident? Or, could she have made a
                        mistake in the name under which he was to registercould he be waiting for
                        her all the time? Back and forth, to and fro the girl paced. Thoroughly
                        alarmed and in spite of a sense of mortification at such an undertaking, she
                        again interviewed the clerk.
                    "Will it be convenient for me to see the register?" she
                        inquired, forced to conceal her embarrassment.
                    The clerk obligingly brought the book and eagerly she scanned the list.
                        Unfortunately, for her, there was no mistake. Nothing like Ridgeway, Ridge
                        or Hugh's handwriting greeted her anxious eyes.
                    A silence that seemed an inconceivably long one to the almost overwrought
                        girl was broken by the clerk asking would she register?
                    Grace could hardly restrain her agitation. The critical moment had come.
                        Something must be done. But what? Should she register and under what name?
                        Or, should she wait longer; and if not, where should she go? Finally, with a
                        desperate effort, she looked imploringly at him, and with heightened color,
                        gasped:
                    "No, thank you; I'll wait a little longer for
                        mymybrother."
                    It was out. The prevarication had been uttered, and  Grace felt as if she had committed a crime and punishment was
                        at hand. Tears of distress came to her eyes; the situation was becoming
                        intolerable.
                    It was just then that there came a shrill cry:
                    "Miss Ridge!"
                    Grace remained immovable. The name she had inquired for a few minutes ago was
                        called without bringing a sign or change of expression to the beautiful
                        face, on which the wondering eyes of the clerk were fixed. He started to
                        speak, but was withheld by her impassibility.
                    Again the same cry, and this time, the last word was accentuated. A boy
                        entered.
                    As the clerk, slightly raising his eyebrows, turned toward her, Grace gave a
                        little start; an enlightened glance shot from her eyes; the significance of
                        the call gradually dawned upon her.
                    "I am Miss Ridge!" came excitedly from her trembling lips,
                        the hot blood crimsoning her cheeks.
                    "A telephone"
                    "For me?" she asked uneasily.
                    "From Mr. Ridge; wants you to wait," finished the boy.
                    "Thank you! Oh, thank you!" The girl beamed her relief on
                        the staring bell-boy. And, the message having been delayed, the grateful
                        words were hardly spoken before Hugh, almost distracted, rushed into the
                        room. Regardless of appearances or consequences, the tall young fellow
                        seized her and kissed her in a fashion that would have brought terrible
                        rebuke,  under any other circumstance, and
                        which certainly caused the clerk to consider this Mr. Ridge the most
                        demonstrative brother that in a long experience in hotel life he had ever
                        encountered. When Hugh held her at arm's length to give his
                        admiring gaze full scope, he saw tears of joy swimming in her eyes. Her
                        voice quivered as she sighed:
                    "I should have died in another moment!"
                    "You are the dearest girl in all the world!" Then he
                        explained to her the cause of the delay. After getting rid of Woods, he had
                        rushed to the Hotel Astor, where he expected to find her waiting for him.
                        All inquiries as to whether any lady answering to her description had been
                        seen there had resulted in failure. He would have been there yet, growing
                        angrier all the while, had not a gentleman who had overheard his troubles
                        suggested that he telephone the Astor House, in the hope that the lady might
                        be waiting there.
                    At the end of this recital of his vexatious experience Hugh seized her
                        travelling-bag, and together they made their way out of the hotel.
                    "Oh, Hugh!" cried Grace, hanging back a little.
                    "What did Mr. Woods say to you? What did you say? Do you know he
                        tried to speak with me on the train?"
                    "Honestly, I don't remember, dearsister. He's the
                        most muddled man, though, in New York, I'll bet a dollar. And now
                        that I think of it, it wasn't absolutely necessary; but when he
                        guyed me about a  runaway match, it paralyzed
                        me, and I had to do something, so I swore that I had never heard of such a
                        person as Ridgeway."
                    Grace was too astounded to speak.
                    "Then he told me of meeting you," he continued,
                        "and that settled it. Poor old Woods! What a trump you were,
                        Grace!"
                    "You wouldn't have thought so if you could have seen me
                        when I first boarded the train. My! I was blue! Fortunately, I did not see
                        him until we were nearly here. Hugh RidgewayRidge, I meando you know what I
                        did? It will make you very angry!" she said as they waited for a
                        cab.
                    "Nothing could make me angry." This was said ten seconds
                        later, when they were inside the cab and a nervous, smiling young woman at
                        his side was squeezing his arm expressively. "Driver!" he
                        called out, "go uptownanywherethrough the park until I tell you to
                        stop!" and turning to her, added: "We'll have a
                        bit of dinner somewhere and then go aboard. Now, what did you
                        do?"
                    "Well," she went on, "I actually tossed up a
                        quarter in the compartment to see whether I should go on or turn
                        back."
                    "You did? Really? Who won?"
                    "I did," she answered navely.
                    "No; I did. I am beginning to feel too lucky to be awake. And would
                        you have turned back if you had lost? Would you have left me here with all
                        this anticipation to dispose of?" he cried.
                    
                    "If it came tails, I was to turn back. It came tails."
                    "What! And you came anyhow?"
                    "Well, you see, after the first flip I concluded to make it two out
                        of three trials. So I flipped again, Hugh, and it came tails. Then I made it
                        three out of five. That was only fair, wasn't it?"
                    "Certainly. Seven out of thirteen or eleven out of twenty, just so
                        you won."
                    "I tossed that coin seventeen times, and the final count was nine
                        for New York and eight for Chicago. The train had started, so I
                        didn't flip again. Wasn't it a narrow majority,
                        dear?"
                    "If it were not for appearing ridiculous, I would kiss you seventeen
                        times right here. Oh, how about your baggageluggage, I mean?" he
                        cried.
                    "The transfer man will take them to the dock. I have ten big onesnew
                        steamer trunks. You'll never know how much trouble I had in getting
                        them packed and out of the house."
                    "Ten! Great Scott! I have but two!"
                    "Don't worry, dear. You can pack some of your things in
                        minecoming home, of course," she said laughingly.
                    "Great, isn't it?" he chuckled. "Nobody
                        on earth ever did anything like it. But before I forget it, how did you
                        leave your aunt?"
                    "Poor Aunt Elizabeth! She will be so disappointed. I promised to do
                        a lot of shopping for her. But she's well and can endure the delay,
                        I fancy. To prepare her for the shock, I told her that I might stay  East for a couple of weeks, perhaps longer.
                        She does not suspect a thing, but she was awfully cut up about my leaving at
                        this time."
                    "I'm glad you quieted Aunt Elizabeth, for it would be just
                        like her to send detectives after us." Both laughed as he whispered
                        this to her. As the cab whirled away she said:
                    "What happy fools we are!"
                    "Sit back, quick! Cover your face," he suddenly cried.
                    "Whatwho is it?" she giggled.
                    "We just passed a policeman, and he looked rather hard at the
                        windows," he cried, with a broad grin.
                    "Oh, you ninny!"
                    "Well, we must elope with fear and trembling or it won't
                        count," he cried. "Is there anything you have to buy
                        before we sail? If there is, we must attend to it now, because we leave at a
                        most outlandish hour in the morning."
                    Miss Vernon looked alarmed for a moment, the real enormity of the escapade
                        striking her with full force. But she smiled in the next and said that she
                        could make a few necessary purchases in a few minutes if he would direct the
                        cabman. "It's a long way to Manila, you know,"
                        she said. "Hugh, I noticed in the paper the other day that this is
                        the season for typhoons, or whatever you call them, in the Indian Ocean. I
                        looked them up in the dictionary. There's a picture of one in
                        action, and they must be dreadful things. One of them could tear our ship to
                        pieces in  a minute, I should judge.
                        Wouldn't it be awfulifif"
                    "Pshaw! Typhoons are nothing! It's a simoon that
                        you're thinking about, and they happen only on the desert. In what
                        dictionary did you see that?"
                    "Webster's, of course."
                    Mr. Ridgeway did not continue along that line, but mentally resolved to look
                        into Webster's on the sly, and, furthermore, to ask the captain of
                        the Saint Cloud to tell him all he knew about
                        typhoons.
                    "Have him drive to Arnold's, Hugh."
                    She left him in the carriage in front of the store, promising to be gone not
                        more than five minutes. Ten minutes passed and Hugh resignedly lighted a
                        cigarette, stepping to the sidewalk to smoke. After he had smoked four
                        cigarettes a perceptible frown approached his brow. He looked at the big
                        doorway, then at his watch, then at the imperturbable cabman. Her five
                        minutes had grown to half an hour. His good nature was going to the bad and
                        he was about to follow in her footsteps when suddenly he saw her emerging
                        from the store.
                    "I had to mail a letter," she explained as they drove off.
                        "Oh, Hugh, I'm so nervous, I know that I will do something
                        silly before we sail."
                    "A letter?"
                    "Yes; I mailed one letter to Uncle Harry before I left Chicago, you
                        know, but I forgot something important, so I had to write again
                        to-day."
                    "What did you forget?"
                    
                    I forgot to tell him you were coming out on the same ship and would look
                        after me as if I were your own sister, Hugh."
                    Strange to say, neither of them smiled as their hands met in a warm,
                        confident clasp.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    THE FIRST OBSTACLE
                    A DRIZZLING rain began to fall and an overcast sky, cold
                        and bleak, dropped lower and lower until it covered the dripping park like a
                        sombre mantle. The glass in the hood of the hansom kept out the biting rain,
                        but the drear approach of a wet evening was not to be denied. For nearly
                        three hours Hugh and Grace had been driven through the park and up the
                        Riverside, killing time with a nervous energy that was beginning to tell.
                        The electric lights were coming on; pavements glistened with the glare from
                        the globes; tiny volcanoes leaped up by thousands as the patting, swishing
                        raindrops flounced to the sidewalks.
                    "Isn't it dismal?" murmured Grace, huddling closer
                        to his side. "I thought the weather man said it was to be nice?
                        It's horrid!"
                    "I think it's lovely!" said he beamingly.
                        "Just the sort of weather for a mystery like this. It begins like a
                        novel."
                    "I hope it ends as most of them do, commonplace as they are. Anyhow,
                        it will be fun to dine at Sherry's. If any one that we know should
                        see us, we can say"
                    
                    "No, dear; we'll not attempt to explain. In the face of
                        what is to follow, I don't believe an accounting is necessary. This
                        is to be our last dinner in good old America for many a day, dear.
                        We'll have a good one, just for history's sake. What kind
                        of a bird will you have?"
                    "A lark, I think," she said with a bright smile.
                    "Oh, one doesn't eat the lark for dinner. He's a
                        breakfast bird, you know. One rises with him. Besides, we should try to keep
                        our lark in fine feather instead of subjecting it to the discomforts of a
                        gridiron in some"
                    His observations came to an abrupt close as both he and his companion pitched
                        forward violently, barely saving themselves from projection through the
                        glass. The hansom had come to a sudden stop, and outside there was a
                        confused sound of shouting with the crunching of wood and the scraping of
                        wheels. The horse plunged, the cab rocked sharply and then came to a
                        standstill.
                    "What is it?" gasped Grace, trying to straighten her hat
                        and find her bag at the same time. Hugh managed to raise the glass and peer
                        dazedly forth into the gathering night. A sweep of fine rain blew into their
                        faces. He saw a jumble of high vehicles, a small knot of men on the
                        sidewalk, gesticulating hands on every side, and then came the oaths and
                        sharp commands.
                    "We've smashed into something!" he said to
                        her.
                    
                    "Some one is hurt! Confound these reckless drivers! Why
                        can't they watch where"
                    "Come down off that!" shouted a voice at the wheel, and he
                        saw a huge policeman brandishing his club at the driver above.
                        "Come down, I say!"
                    "Aw, the d fool backed into me," retorted the driver of
                        Hugh's hansom. His fare noticed that they were at the Sherry
                        corner, and the usual crowd of seven-o'clock cabs was in full
                        evidence.
                    "That'll dothat'll do," roared the
                        officer. "I saw the whole thing. Ye've cracked his head,
                        you dirty cur."
                    Two men were holding the horse's head and other policemen were
                        making their way to the side of their fellow-officer. Evidently something
                        serious had happened.
                    "What's the trouble?" Hugh called out to the
                        officer.
                    "You'll find out soon enough," answered the
                        policeman. "Don't butt indon't butt
                        in!"
                    "Here, here, now!" exclaimed Mr. Ridgeway.
                        "You've no right to talk like that to"
                    "Oh, I ain't, eh? Well, we'll see if somebody else
                        has a right. You dudes can't kill people and then get off with talk
                        like that. Not much, my Johnny. You go along, too, an' explain yer
                        hurry to the captain."
                    "But I've got a lady here"
                    "Tush! tush! Don't chew the rag. Stay in
                        there!"
                    Other officers had dragged the driver from the cab,  jostling him roughly to the outer circle of wheels. The man was
                        protesting loudly. Rain had no power to keep a curious crowd from
                        collecting. Hugh, indignant beyond expression, would have leaped to the
                        ground had not a second and superior officer stepped up and raised his
                        hand.
                    "Don't get down, sir," he said with gentle
                        firmness. "I'm afraid you'll have to go to the
                        station for a few minutes."
                    "But, confound it, officerI have nothing to do with this
                        row."
                    "That may be true, sir. You can explain all that at the desk. We
                        have to get at the bottom of this. This is no place to argue."
                    A moment later the hansom, with a bent axle, was hobbling its way down the
                        street engineered by bluecoats. Hugh, seeing that it was useless to
                        remonstrate, sank back in the seat and swore audibly.
                    "Don't worry about it, Hugh," said a soft voice in
                        his ear. "We can explain, can't we?"
                    "You can't explain anything to asses, Grace," he
                        lamented, "especially if they wear buttons." They lapsed
                        into a mournful, regretful silence. For five full minutes the hansom wobbled
                        painfully along and then pulled up in front of a building which Hugh
                        lugubriously recognized as a police station. "We've got to
                        make the best of it, dear. Did you ever hear of such beastly luck?
                        I'll see if they won't let me go in alone and square
                        things. You won't be afraid to sit out here alone for a few
                        minutes, will you?  There's really
                        nothing to be alarmed about. This driver of ours is in trouble,
                        that's all. We're not to blame. A word or two will fix
                        everything. I'll be out in a jiffy."
                    But the bluecoats would not see it that way. Miss Vernon was compelled to
                        climb down from the seat and march indignantly into the desk
                        sergeant's presence. Hugh at once began to explain and to
                        expostulate against what he called an outrage.
                    "What had we to do with it? The truth is, I don't know what
                        has happened," he was saying.
                    "Neither do I," said the bewhiskered sergeant shortly.
                        "Who are you, sir?"
                    "These people saw the whole thing, sir. They were in the hansom when
                        Bernhardt smashed him, an' this felly had ordered him to get to
                        Sherry's in five minutes if he had to kill some one,"
                        explained the officer who had first addressed Hugh in the crowd.
                    "That's a lie," cried Hugh. "I said if he
                        had to kill the old plug. Who is Bernhardt? What the deuce is it all
                        about?"
                    "I don't believe the gentleman saw the row," said
                        the polite roundsman. "It happened in the crush
                        there."
                    "Somebody shall pay for this outrage," exclaimed Ridgeway.
                        "It's beastly to drag a lady and gentleman into a police
                        station like common criminals when they"
                    "That will do, sir," commanded the sergeant sharply.
                        "You'll talk when you are asked to, sir."  Turning to the patrolman, he asked,
                        "Has that fellow been taken to the hospital?"
                    "The ambulance came up just as we left, sir."
                    "Bernhardt says he didn't hit him. He says the guy fell off
                        his own cab."
                    "Don't cry, dear," Hugh managed to whisper to
                        Grace as they took the seats designated by a brusque man in blue.
                    "Never!" she whispered bravely. "It's a
                        lark!"
                    "Bravo! We'll have that bird yetat
                        Sherry's." Then he approached the desk with determination
                        in his eye. "Look here, officer, I demand respectful attention.
                        Whatever it was that happened between those cabmen, I had nothing to do with
                        it, and I am absolutely ignorant of the trouble. We have a dinner
                        engagement, and I want you to take our statements, or whatever it is you
                        want, and let us go our way."
                    "What is your name?" shortly.
                    "Whyerthat isn't necessary, is it?" floundered
                        Hugh.
                    "Of course it is. Name, please."
                    "Will it get into the papers?"
                    "That's nothin' to me. Will you answer now, or do
                        you want to stay here till mornin'?"
                    "My name is Smith."
                    "Place of residence?"
                    "Brooklyn."
                    "Who's the lady?"
                    "My sister."
                    
                    "Step up here, lady, if you please!"
                    Hugh felt the floor giving away beneath him. That Grace could not have heard
                        a word of the foregoing examination, he was perfectly aware. Vainly, and
                        with a movement of his lips, he essayed to convey the name she should
                        answer.
                    "Don't butt in, you!" was the instant warning
                        given by the observant officer, and then
                    "Lady, what is your name?"
                    For a moment the question bewildered the girl. With considerable misgiving
                        she discerned that another occasion for prevarication was unavoidable, and
                        something like a sigh escaped her lips; but as suddenly fear gave way to a
                        feeling of elation. How clever Hugh would consider her remembrance of his
                        instructions! What felicity to extricate him from this predicament! Alone,
                        she would save the situation!
                    Unblushingly, and with a glance at him for instant approval, she stepped
                        forward and pronounced jubilantly the alias agreed upon:
                    "RidgeMiss Ridge is my name."
                    A smothered exclamation of dismay burst from Hugh's lips.
                    "Eh, what? Miss Ridge, and your brother's
                        nameSmith?" ejaculated the man of authority.
                    For a brief moment there was a pause of embarrassment; and then with a
                        dazzling, bewitching smile directed at her questioner, she electrified them
                        both:
                    "Most assuredly. Mr. Smith is my half-brother."
                    
                    Hugh could have shouted for joy, as he watched the somewhat amused
                        discomfiture of the officer.
                    "Where do you live?"
                    "St. Louis," gasped she, with blind confidence in luck.
                    "Oh, humph! Well, wait a minute," he said, and both were
                        gratified to see a good-natured grin on his face. "Buckley, see if
                        there is a family named Smith in Brooklyn with connection in St. Louis. Sit
                        down, Miss Ridge, please, and don't be worried. This is what we
                        have to do. Your driver slugged another of his kind and he's likely
                        to die of the fall he got. We'll have to use you as witnesses,
                        that's all, an' we must have you where we can put our
                        hands on you in the mornin'. The captain will be here in an hour or
                        two and you can probably manage to give some kind of bond for your
                        appearance. People like you don't like to appear in court, you see,
                        so we've got to make sure of you."
                    "But we must go to ourour dinner," she wailed so prettily
                        that he coughed to cover his official severity.
                    "Can't be helped, ma'am. Duty, you know. The
                        captain will soon be here. Would you like to telephone, sir?"
                    Hugh stared and looked embarrassed. Who was there for him to talk to over the
                        'phone? And that brought another ghastly thought to mind. Who could
                        he ask to give security for his or her appearance in the morning? He found
                        words to say he would telephone to his friends, a bright idea suddenly  coming to the rescue. Grace looked her
                        amazement and alarm as he marched into the telephone booth. Bravely he
                        called up Sherry's and, with the sergeant listening, he sent word
                        to the head waiter to inform Mr.(mentioning the name of a very prominent
                        society leader) that Mr. Smith and Miss Ridge were unavoidably detained and
                        could not join the party until quite late, if at all. He came from the booth
                        very much pleased with himself, and sat down beside Grace to await
                        developments.
                    "What are we to do?" she whispered.
                    "Give me time to think, dear. I fooled him that time. Perhaps I can
                        do it again. Great bluff, wasn't it? What do you suppose Mr.will
                        think?"
                    "But if they should insist upon holding us till morning,"
                        she cried, on the verge of tears, trouble looming up like a mountain.
                    "They won't dare do that. They'll probably send us
                        to a hotel with a plain-clothes man unless we give bond, but that's
                        all. I'll try another bluff and see how it works. There's
                        no use kicking about it. We're not in a position to stir up much of
                        a row, you see, dear."
                    He tried it when the captain came in unexpectedly a few minutes later, and
                        with the most gratifying results. He obtained consent to go with a
                        plain-clothes man to a nearby restaurant for a "bite to
                        eat." In the meantime he was to send a messenger boy with a note to
                        an influential friend in Brooklyn, requesting him to hurry over and give
                        security for their appearance.  If this failed,
                        they were to go to a hotel under guard.
                    "The only thing that sounds fishy about your story, Mr. Smith, is
                        that you say you are brother and sister," said the captain.
                        "Driving all afternoon in the park with your own sister?
                        Queer."
                    "She's from Missouri, you know," said Hugh with a
                        fine inspiration. The captain laughed, even though he was not convinced.
                    "Now, Grace, dear," said Hugh as they waited for the cab to
                        be called, "our adventure is on in dead earnest. We have to give
                        this plain-clothes man the slip and get aboard the Saint
                            Cloud before they have time to think. They won't look for
                        us there and we're safe."
                    "Hugh, I'm frightened half to death," she
                        whispered. "Can we do it? Would it not be wiser to give up the
                        whole plan, Hugh, and"
                    "Oh, Grace!" he cried, deep regret in his voice.
                        "What a cad I am to be dragging you into all this sort of thing!
                        Yes, dear. We'll give it up. We'll go back to Chicago.
                        It's too much to ask of you. I'll"
                    "No, no, Hugh! Forgive me. I'll be strong and firm. I
                        wouldn't give it up for all the world. II was just a bit weak for a
                        second, you know. It does look pretty big and wild, dear,all that is ahead
                        of us. But, after all, it's like any sea voyage, isn't it?
                        Only we're going to be married when it's over. We
                        wouldn't think anything of taking a trip to Manila  under ordinary circumstances, would we?
                        It's all right, isn't it?" He squeezed her hand
                        cautiously but fervently.
                    To their disgust the plain-clothes man took the seat opposite them in the
                        brougham, remarking as he did so that he had sense enough to get in out of
                        the rain. They had no opportunity to concoct a plan for escape, and it was
                        necessary for them to go on to the restaurant in Longacre Square. It
                        occurred to Hugh that it would be timely to explain why they were not
                        dressed for dinner. They were on their way to the hotel to dress when the
                        fracas took place. The plainclothes man was not interested. Evidently the
                        authorities did not apprehend much trouble from the two young people; their
                        guardian performed his duties perfunctorily and considerately. He even
                        disappeared from view after they entered the restaurant.
                    "We'll have that bird," said Hugh,
                        "before we do anything else. I'm hungry. Haven't
                        eaten since last night, dear. I've been too excited to think of
                        eatingor sleeping."
                    In a quiet corner of the big caf they had their bird and just enough
                        champagne to give them the courage that counts. With their heads close
                        together they planned and plotted until they forgot the rain that pattered
                        against the window panes, and dreariness turned to rosy assurance.
                    "Just a little nerve, dear," said he as they arose.
                        "Do as I have told you and trust to luck. It can't
                        fail."
                    
                    The plain-clothes man was just outside the door. Scores of people were
                        hurrying past, umbrellas raised in the face of the drizzle. Down Broadway
                        the glare of lights was broken and left hazy in the fog like rain. The
                        sidewalks in the distance looked like a bobbing field of black mushrooms,
                        shiny and sleek. The air was chill with the wet shadows of a night that
                        hated to surrender to the light of man.
                    "Where's the cab?" demanded Hugh. "Get it
                        up here quick. I don't want to keep my friend waiting at the
                        station. Come in and have a drink, officer. It's no fun standing
                        around this kind of weather. No job for a decent human being, I'd
                        say. Especially when one's set to watch respectable people and not
                        criminals. This is a rattling good joke on meand my sister. I need about
                        three good, stiff drinks. We'll go in next door here. Get into the
                        cab, Marian. We won't be inside two minutes."
                    If the plain-clothes man was willing to take the drink, all well and good,
                        but if he refusedbut he did not refuse. He looked carefully about, shivered
                        appropriately, and said he "didn't care if he
                        did." Grace urged them to hurry as she entered the cab and Hugh
                        gave his promise. Scarcely had the two men passed beyond the light screen
                        doors when Grace Vernon coolly stepped from the cab and hurriedly made her
                        way off through the crowd of umbrellas, first telling the driver to wait for
                        her in front of the drugstore.
                    A moment later she boarded a Broadway car, nervous  and excited, but intent only on reaching a place where she
                        could safely engage a cab to take her to the dock. And all the time she was
                        hoping and praying, not for herself, but for the important young gentleman
                        who was clicking his righteous glass in a den of iniquity.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    READY FOR THE SEA
                    RIDGEWAY, his nerves tense and his eyes gleaming, marched
                        his thoroughly chilled companion up to the bar. He manuvred so that the
                        plain-clothes man stood with his back toward the door, and he seemed to be
                        in no especial haste to attract the attention of the bartender. As they gave
                        their order for drinks, Hugh saw Grace, in his mind's eye, slipping
                        from the carriage and off into the crowdand every fibre of his heart was
                        praying for success to attend her flight. He found himself talking glibly,
                        even volubly to the watcher, surprised that he could be doing it with his
                        mind so full of other thoughts.
                    "Awful night to be out. I'd hate to have a job like
                        yours," he was rattling on, heaving intermittent breaths of relief
                        as he saw the size of the drink the other was pouring out for himself.
                    "I've been at it for twelve years. I don't mind
                        anything just so it helps to make a comfortable home for the old lady and
                        the kids."
                    "Ah, the kids," said Hugh, grasping at the subject as if it
                        were the proverbial straw. "How I love kids! How many have
                        you?"
                    "Four. The oldest is ten."
                    
                    "They're worth working for, I'll bet. Nothing like
                        children. How many have you?"
                    "Four," said the officer, looking at him in surprise.
                    "I'm a little deaf," explained Hugh, recovering
                        himself quickly. "I thought you said ten."
                    "No; the oldest is ten. Yes; they're worth slaving for.
                        I've hung onto this job all these years just because it might go
                        hard with 'em if I gave it up and tried something
                        else."
                    Hugh looked into the sober, serious face and a lump flew to his throat. It
                        struck him as probable that this man was to lose his position the next
                        morning. A sort of pity assailed Ridgeway for an instant, but he put it away
                        resolutely.
                    After all, he had Grace to think of and not the children of the plain-clothes
                        man.
                    They had a second drink and it fired his brain with a gleeful desire for
                        action. The plain-clothes man shivered as he swallowed the fiery stuff. He
                        looked thin and haggard and ill, a condition which Hugh, in his hatred, had
                        failed to observe until this moment.
                    "You certainly have a home and some money saved up by this
                        time," he said, trying to suppress the eager gleam in his eyes.
                    "We've had lots of sickness and it's taken nearly
                        everything. Besides, I've been too dhonest. It's my own
                        fault that I haven't a big wad put away."
                    "What is your name?" demanded Hugh suddenly.
                    "Friend."
                    "I understand all that. But what is your name?"
                    
                    "That's itGeorge Friend Street Station."
                    "Oh, I see." Hugh also saw the picture of this poor fellow
                        as he stood before his superior later on with his luckless tale, facing a
                        thirty-days' lay-off at the lowest. "By the way, I want to
                        write a short note." He secured envelope, paper and stamp from the
                        bar and hastily wrote a brief letter. The inscription on the outside of the
                        envelope was "George Friend, Police Station, New York,"
                        and there were three one-hundred-dollar bills inclosed with the note of
                        explanation. "I'll mail it later," he said.
                        "Come on."
                    They went forth into the rain, Hugh's blood leaping with excitement,
                        the plain-clothes man shivering as if he were congealing. Mr. Ridgeway
                        dashed across the pavement and peered into the cab. Grace was not there,
                        just as he had hoped and expected.
                    "The lady's in the drug-store below, sir,"
                        announced the cabman.
                    "Wait here," called Hugh to the plain-clothes man.
                        "I'm afraid she's ill. She's gone to the
                        drug-store." He hurried toward the drug-store as the officer began
                        to question the driver. A second later Mr. Ridgeway turned the corner and
                        was off like the wind toward Sixth Avenue. Turning into an alley, he fled
                        southward, chuckling to himself as he splashed through the puddles and
                        mudholes. He heard shouts in the distance and he did not decrease his speed
                        until he neared the street opening below. There he ran into some one and
                        fell. Besmeared and bespattered, he  quickly
                        picked himself up; and when, a moment later, he gained the sidewalk, no one
                        would hardly have recognized in the dilapidated-looking creature the dapper
                        Hugh Ridgeway. Police whistles were calling behind him, nearer and nearer,
                        but he walked boldly out into the street and up to Sixth Avenue. His nerves
                        were tingling and his breathing was hard to control after the mad dash
                        through the alley, but he slouched along in the lee of the buildings to
                        escape the downpour, stopping near the corner.
                    Suddenly he rushed out and hailed a passing cab, climbed inside and gave
                        orders to drive as quickly as possible to the Twenty-third Street Ferry.
                        Then he sat up boldly and stared forth with all the courage that his escape
                        inspired.
                    "By Jove," he was shouting inwardly, "that poor
                        devil was on my heels. He looked hard as he hustled past, but I stared back
                        just as hard. It took nerve to face him. Hang it all, I'm sorry for
                        him. He wasn't to blame. But this letter will cheer him up.
                        It's for the kids if anything happens to him."
                    Apparently changing his mind at Herald Square, he instructed the driver to go
                        down Thirty-fifth Street to Eighth Avenue and drop him at the corner. After
                        leaving the cab he ventured into an all-night shop and bought a cheap
                        raincoat, slouch hat and umbrella. Then, like a thief, he stole forth and
                        warily made his way toward the dock. It was bad going and he hailed a second
                        cab. Before climbing into  it, he crossed and
                        dropped an envelope into the mailbox.
                    "There," he muttered, "that helps my conscience.
                        By Jove, this has been a corking start for the adventure. Talk about dime
                        novels!"
                    He instructed the driver to take him to a point not far from the dock, a
                        precaution which suddenly invented itself. It would be wise to approach the
                        liner by stealth, taking no chances. They were sailing by one of the obscure
                        lines, not for economy's sake, but to avoid possible contact with
                        friends of their own class.
                    As he rattled off through the night, huddled back in the blackness of the
                        cab, Hugh began to have the first pangs of uneasiness. The distressing fear
                        that all had not gone well with Grace flooded his brain with misgivings and
                        feverish doubts. A clock in a shop window told him it was nearly ten
                        o'clock. He was cursing himself for permitting her to rush off
                        alone in a night like this, into a quarter that reeked with uncertainty and
                        disorder. Vague horrors presented themselves to his distressed mind;
                        calamity stared at him from the mouth of every dark alley; outrage, crime,
                        misfortune, danced in every shadow. As for himself, he was a sorry sight and
                        enough to frighten Grace into convulsions at one glance. Rainsoaked, muddy,
                        bedraggled, it was not the dbonnaire Chicagoan of old who skulked away from
                        the cab at a certain black corner and made his way stealthily, even
                        fearfully, toward the distant dock.
                    
                    Every sound startled and alarmed him; every pedestrian looked like a pursuer
                        in plain clothes or blue. A couple of policemen eyed him sharply and he
                        trembled in his boots. The sudden, overpowering recollection that he had the
                        passage tickets in his pockets with the reservations and the luggage checks
                        almost sent him flying through the air, so swift was his pace. He lost his
                        way twice, but was set straight by unsuspecting bluecoats.
                    At last he zigzagged his way through devious channels and into the presence
                        of a company's official, who informed him that Miss Ridge had not
                        gone aboard nor had she presented herself at the dock during the evening.
                        Hugh's jaw dropped and a sick, damp perspiration started on his
                        forehead. Hardly knowing what he did, he went aboard and plied his questions
                        right and left, hoping that she might have come through unobserved. But she
                        was not there, and it was half past ten o'clock.
                    Out into the drizzle he sallied once more, racked by a hundred doubts and
                        misgivings. Reproaching himself fiercely for a fool, a dolt, he posted
                        himself at the approach to the dock and strained his eyes and ears for the
                        first sight of Grace Vernon. Other people went aboard, but an hour passed
                        before he gave up all hope and distractedly made up his mind to institute a
                        search for the missing girl. He conjectured all manner of mishaps, even to
                        the most dreadful of catastrophes. Runaway accident, robbery, abduction,
                        even murder harassed his imagination until  it
                        became unbearable. The only cheerful alternative that he could hope for was
                        that she might not have escaped the authorities after all and was still in
                        custody, crushed and despairing. Reviling himself with a bitterness that was
                        explicit but impotent, he started off resolutely to seek the aid of the
                        policethe last extremity.
                    A quick little shriek came to his ears, and then the door of a cab that had
                        been standing at the opposite corner flew open.
                    "Hugh! Hugh!" called a shrill voice. His heart gave a wild
                        leap and then his long legs did the samerepeatedly. As he brought up beside
                        the cab, Grace Vernon tumbled out, sobbing and laughing almost
                        hysterically.
                    "Good Heavens!" shouted he, regardless of the driver, who
                        grinned scornfully from his private box above, the only witness to this most
                        unconventional comedy of circumstances.
                    "I've beenbeen here an hourin this cab!" she cried
                        plaintively. "Oh, oh, oh! You'll never know how I felt all
                        that time. It seemed a year. Where did you get those awful-looking clothes,
                        and"
                    "Whatawoh, the coat? Great Jehoshaphat! You don't mean to
                        say that"
                    "I thought you were a detective!" she sobbed. "Oh,
                        how wretched I've been. Pay the man, dear, and take metake me any
                        place where there is light. I'm dying from the sight and sound of
                        this awful night."
                    Mr. Ridgeway lost no time in paying the driver 
                        and getting her on board the Saint Cloud. She tried to
                        explain as they hurried along, but he told her there was time enough for
                        that.
                    "We may be watched, after all," he said, looking anxiously
                        in all directions, a habit that had grown upon him to such an extent that he
                        feared it would cling to him through life. "Go to your stateroom,
                        dearest, and I'll send you something hot to drink. Good Heavens,
                        what an eternity it has been! Oh, if you could only know what I've
                        been calling myself!"
                    "I'm ashamed to admit it, dear, but I've been calling you things, too. And I've been
                        so worried about you. How did you get away from that man?"
                    "Not now, dear. I'll meet you out here in the library in
                        half an hour. I'll see about the luggage."
                    "You must change your clothes, Hugh. You're frightfully
                        wet. Send my small trunk and bag right up, dear."
                    Like a thief and murderer, Hugh slunk out and attended to the trunks and
                        bags, watching all the time for the dreaded plain-clothes man and his
                        cohorts, trembling with a nervous fear so unbecoming in a strong man that
                        the baggage master smiled in derision and imagined he was looking upon a
                        "greenie" who was making his first voyage and was afraid
                        of the sea. Offering up a prayer of thankfulness, he bolted into his own
                        stateroom soon afterward and came forth later on in dry clothes and a new
                        frame of mind. He was exuberant, happy once more.
                    
                    They did not look like brother and sister as they sat on one of the wide
                        sofas and drank the toddy that came from below in charge of a well-feed
                        steward.
                    "Be careful, dear!" he warned, with returning reason.
                        "They'll think we're bride and
                        groom."
                    "Oh, dear me," she lamented. "It is almost out of
                        the question to act like brother and sister after all we've been
                        through to-night."
                    "Now, tell me all about it. How did it all work out for
                        you," he asked eagerly.
                    "Well, it was all very simplealthough I was frightened half to
                        deathuntil I drove up to the spot where you saw me a little while ago. I
                        thought it would be wise to take a look around before I tried to go aboard.
                        Just as I left the cab a man rushed past me and I flew back into my seat
                        like a bullet. He was a tall, slouchy fellow, with a sly look. All at once
                        it came to me that he was a detective. You know, they're always
                        mysterious looking. So I stayed in the cab trying to think what to do next.
                        I was quite sure you had not yet arrived, for I had come down as quickly as
                        possible. And I wasn't real sure, either, that you had escaped. I
                        didn't know how many drinks it might take, dear."
                    "Don't let me forget to tell you how sorry I was for Mr.
                        Plain Clothes and what I did afterward for the kids," interposed
                        Hugh.
                    "The kids?"
                    "Yes. His."
                    "Oh, I see. Well, pretty soon that awful man came  out and stood at the corner. He was waiting
                        for some one. He was nervous and sleuth-like. He acted so queerly that I was
                        sure of it. He was after you and me. Of course, I nearly fainted. All the
                        time I was afraid you would run right into his arms, so I was watching from
                        both windows to warn you if possible. My plan was to get you into the cab
                        and drive away like mad. Hours passed, it seemed to me, and
                    "I know the rest!" he cried, laughing so loud that the
                        steward looked up reprovingly.
                    "Is everything ready, Hugh?" she asked anxiously.
                    "The trunks, the tickets,everything?"
                    "Yes, dear," he said tenderly, soberly. "We are
                        ready for the sea."
                    "God be with us," she said wistfully.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    MR. AND MISS RIDGE SAIL FOR MANILA
                    LONDON. A thick fog, and the elopers on board the Tempest Queen, one of the fastest and most palatial of the
                        liners which ply between England and the Far East, and for ten years under
                        the command of Captain Shadburn, formerly of the British Navy. For the
                        elopement was now an established fact, and Hugh, looking back on their
                        Atlantic voyage, hoped that in this new ship fortune would be more
                        propitious.
                    Excitement, an exaggerated dread of being followed by detectives, together
                        with seasickness, had been too much for Grace, and all those weary days she
                        had scarcely left her stateroom. Alone in her bunk, ticketed to the other
                        side of the world, running away from nothing but a foolish aversion, the
                        girl had felt her heart grow cold with a nameless dread, a clammy fear that
                        she had undertaken something that she could not accomplish. Almost hourly
                        each day of that unending voyage, Hugh would knock at her door and beg to be
                        allowed to do something to alleviate her sufferings; then a thrill of new
                        tenderness would dart into her soul as she thought of her champion for all
                        time.
                    And Hugh. Never had time seemed such an eternity.
                    
                    Do what he would, he could not escape the Nemesislike conviction that he had
                        led the girl he loved into the most unheard-of folly; had carried her to the
                        point where ruin stood on equal footing with success, and joy itself was a
                        menace. Yet during all these days of torment concerning her enfeebled
                        condition and his recklessness, he remembered with sardonic satisfaction
                        that he had left in the safety vault, in Chicago, a full statement of their
                        plans and intentions, with instructions to have the seal broken on March
                        30th, one year after date of deposit. If anything happened to them, this was
                        to be the means of shedding light on the mystery. And when in New York he
                        had deposited a second statement, with instructions to send it to Chicago on
                        April 1st, one year later. In this he had made known their itinerary as
                        fully as he could give it at the time. And although he cursed himself often
                        for being a fool, there were moments, and especially as they neared the
                        foreign shores, when he rejoiced over this maddest, jolliest of frolics.
                    The fact that the short rest in London had done wonders for Grace, together
                        with the hurry and bustle incident to sailing, sent Hugh's spirits
                        higher and higher. As the two watched the ship drawn away from the pier and
                        dragged slowly into clearer waters, the knowledge that they were irrevocably
                        consigned to the consummation of their project acted on him like a
                        stimulant. Just before going on board he had asked, half-fearful that she
                        was losing heart, if she  still desired to
                        complete the journey. He told her that it was not too late to turn back and
                        that he would agree to any modification of the original plan that she might
                        suggest.
                    There was not a waver in the clear brown eyes, nor a quiver in her voice as
                        she replied. Instead, there was a flicker indicating injured pride, followed
                        by the sweetest, tenderest smile that he ever had seen on her face.
                    "Dear old Hugh! Did I not tell you that I would go to the end of the
                        world with you?"
                    "But we may go to the bottom of the sea," he interposed,
                        seizing her hands, his face lighting up gladly.
                    "Then I shall go to the bottom of the sea with you. I never have
                        felt the faintest desire to turn back. It has been my greatest happiness to
                        think that some day we shall reach Manila, where our dear adventure may have
                        its second and most delightful epoch. Would I turn back? Would
                        you?" She looked divinely happy as she answered her first
                        triumphant question with the second.
                    And so they sailed again.
                    As on their first voyage, their staterooms adjoined. Passage and
                        accommodation had been booked for H. B. Ridge and Miss Ridge, Chicago, U. S.
                        A.
                    The following morning, Grace was awakened by a rattling at her stateroom
                        door.
                    "How are you feeling?" called a well-known voice rather
                        anxiously.
                    
                    "Quite well, thank you. Is it time to get up?"
                    "I should say so, Sis."
                    "All right; in ten minutes." As she set her feet upon the
                        floor she observed a tendency on their part to touch twice before settling
                        finally. A momentary dizziness came over her. She closed her eyes quickly
                        and waited a moment before reopening them. Suddenly Hugh's
                        photograph, which was leaning against her hat on the steamer trunk, ducked
                        slowly toward her as if bowing a polite good-morning, and then fell face
                        downward. Miss Vernon rubbed her eyes and stared at the overturned picture
                        for a full minute before resuming her toilet. Then she laughed nervously and
                        made all haste to get on deck. She was one of the few women who dress
                        quickly and yet look well. Attired in a becoming gown, a jaunty cap, checked
                        raincoat and rough brown gloves, she ventured forth expecting to find Hugh
                        waiting for her. At the same time she was thanking her lucky stars that no
                        longer need she fear the authorities.
                    Slightly dismayed and a little bewildered, she looked to the right and left,
                        trying to remember which stateroom Hugh occupied. The left, she concluded,
                        and forthwith applied her pretty knuckles to the panel vigorously. The door
                        flew open, almost taking her breath, and a tall, dark man stood before her,
                        but he was not Hugh Ridgeway. He looked askance in a very polite way.
                    "I beg your pardon," she stammered in confusion.
                    "I have made a mistake. This isn't Mr.my brother's
                             room, is it? Oh, dear, how absurd of
                        me." She was turning away as she concluded.
                    "Can I be of service to you?" asked the stranger, stepping
                        forth. He had a very pleasant voice, but she did not remark it at the
                        time.
                    "No, I thank you," she hastily replied. "His room
                        is on my right, I remember. Sorry if I disturbed you," and she was
                        pounding on the other door. She glanced back at the stranger's door
                        involuntarily and then away instantly. He was staring at her in a most
                        uncalled-for manner.
                    And Hugh did not answer! She rapped again andno response. The calm voice of
                        the stranger came to her reddening ears.
                    "The gentleman who occupies that room just passed me, going on deck.
                        Straight ahead. That's right." He called the last
                        injunction after her swiftly departing form.
                    "Thank you," came back to him with a breath between the
                        words. Hugh met her at the bottom of the steps. She rushed recklessly toward
                        him and cried,
                    "Oh, you don't know how glad I am to see you. Where have
                        you been, Hugh Ridgeway"
                    "Sh! Ridge without the `way.' For Heaven's sake,
                        don't forget that. It's every bit as important on this
                        ship as on the other. I've been on deck for a look. Say, are you
                        all right? Are you still glad you're alive?" He was
                        holding her hands and looking into her eyes.
                    "Of course I am. What a ridiculous question! None  but the good die young, and I'm not
                        very good or I wouldn't be running away with you. But come,take me
                        on deck. Is it raining? Why, your coat is wet. Hurry, Hugh; I want to take a
                        good look," she cried, dragging him up the steps hilariously. A
                        peculiar smile came to his face as he followed her to the deck.
                    Neither spoke for a full minute, she gazing dumbly at the bleak waste before
                        her, he lovingly at her pretty, bewildered face.
                    "Where are we, Hugh?" she finally asked, terrified for the
                        moment. "Where is London?"
                    "You are not afraid, are you, dearest?" he whispered, his
                        strong arm stealing about her. "We are on the bounding main,
                        ticketed for a port thousands of miles away. London is back there,"
                        pointing astern.
                    She placed her hand in his and looked out over the waters. Nothing but rain,
                        leaden sky and rolling waves. What her thoughts were during the silence that
                        followed he learned when she turned to him again, looking imploringly into
                        his eyes.
                    "Hugh, you will always be good to me?"
                    "So long as I live, sweetheart," he said, pressing her hand
                        firmly. For some time they stood alone and silent beneath the awning which
                        covered the promenade, the sleety rain pattering dismally over their heads.
                        But few of the passengers were above deck. Several officers were chatting at
                        the end of the deckhouse.
                    "We have not breakfasted yet, Grace, and I'm as  hungry as a bear. Isn't it a relief,
                        dear, not to feel the necessity any longer of keeping a sharp lookout for
                        detectives? Those days on the Atlantic, every other man I met I thought was
                        a sleuth-hound bent on capturing the million-dollar reward that has been
                        offered for our capture by Chicago society."
                    They went below and found the dining saloon almost deserted. Two or three
                        late risers were drinking a last cup of coffee. Then she told him of the
                        mistake she had made, and together they scanned their fellowpassengers in
                        search of the man who occupied the stateroom adjoining hers on the left. He
                        did not appear for luncheon or dinner, and Hugh cheerfully accused her of
                        murdering him.
                    The next morning, however, he was seated at the table, directly across from
                        Hugh, a trifle pale and far from hungry. He was making a brave effort to
                        conquer the sickness which had seized him. She nudged Hugh and nodded toward
                        the quiet, subdued eater. He looked across and then gave her a questioning
                        glance. She winked affirmatively.
                    "Poor devil," muttered Hugh. "I suppose he was
                        just beginning to feel sick when you yanked him out, as if you were telling
                        him the boat was on fire."
                    "Yanked him out? I did nothing but rap on his door. If he were sick,
                        why did he open it and stare at me in such a remarkably healthy
                        fashion?"
                    "Because you rapped, I suspect. It's no wonder that he
                        stared at a beautiful young lady who had the temerity to visit him before
                        breakfast. Nice-looking  fellow, though,
                        I'll say that much for your sake, sister. And what's more,
                        I believe he's an American," said Hugh, surveying the
                        stranger critically.
                    "I haven't observed his face," she responded
                        curtly.
                    "How did you happen to recognize him? By his shoes? You naturally
                        looked down when you saw your mistake, of course, but I don't see
                        how you can get a glance of his shoes now, under the table."
                    "I mean I have not noticed whether his face is handsome,
                        Hugh."
                    "Better take a look then. He's particularly goodlooking
                        with that piece of beefsteak in his cheek."
                    Grace glanced slyly at the man across the table, noting his pale cheeks and
                        the dark rings beneath his eyes. Hugh had misrepresented the facts; he was
                        not eating at all. Instead, he was merely toying with his fork, making
                        uncertain circles in the layer of brown gravy which covered the plate, his
                        cheek resting on the other hand, a faraway look of distress in his eyes.
                        They were directed at the plate, but saw it not.
                    "Poor fellow," she murmured compassionately;
                        "he's been awfully sick, hasn't he?"
                    "Oh, I don't know," said Hugh heartlessly.
                        "They don't go to eating in a day's time if they
                        have been very sick."
                    A bright look flashed into her eyes and they danced with merriment as she
                        whispered something in his ear.
                    "By George, maybe you're right. He's a detective
                        and chasing us to earth."
                    
                    The stranger looked at them in a half interested manner when they laughed
                        aloud over the harrowing supposition. They noticed that his eyes were blue
                        and bloodshot, wan and fatigued. He gave Grace a second glance, sharper than
                        the first, and politely resumed his manufacture of circles in the brown
                        gravy and brown study. Miss Vernon flushed slightly.
                    As they left the table she said to Hugh:
                    "He remembers me, but he certainly understands it was a mistake,
                        doesn't he?" Hugh looked at her distressed face and
                        laughed.
                    The weather later that morning was a delightful surprise for all. The sky had
                        resumed its blue and the air was fresh and clear. Notwithstanding the
                        pleasant weather, there was a heavy sea running, the ship rolling
                        uncomfortably for those who were poor sailors. Deck chairs on all sides were
                        occupied by persons who had heroically determined to make the most of the
                        brightness about them.
                    The elopers found their chairs and joined the long line of spectators. Hugh
                        glanced admiringly at Grace now and then. Her cheeks were warm and glowing,
                        her eyes were bright and flashing with excitement, her whole being seemed
                        charged with animation.
                    The wan-faced stranger followed them on deck a few minutes later. His eyes
                        were riveted on a chair nearby and his long body moved swiftly toward it.
                        Then came a deep roll, the deck seemed to throw itself  in the air, and, with a startled look, he plunged headlong
                        toward Miss Vernon's chair.
                    His knee struck the chair, but he managed to throw his body to one side. He
                        went driving against the deck-house, sinking in a heap. Miss Vernon gave a
                        little shriek of alarm and pity, and Ridgeway sprang to the side of the
                        fallen man, assisting him to his feet. The stranger's face was
                        drawn with momentary pain and his eyes were dazed.
                    "Pardon me," he murmured. "I am so very awkward.
                        Have I hurt you?"
                    "Not in the least," cried she. "But I am afraid
                        you are hurt. See! There is blood on your forehead." She instantly
                        extended her handkerchief, and he accepted it in a bewildered sort of a way,
                        placing it to his forehead, where a tiny stream of blood was showing
                        itself.
                    "A piece of court plaster will stop the flow," said Hugh
                        critically, and at once produced the article from his capacious pocket-book.
                        Grace immediately appropriated it and asked for his knife.
                    "You are very good," said the stranger, again pressing the
                        handkerchief to his head. The act revealed to him the fact that he was using
                        her handkerchief for the purpose, soiling it, perhaps. His face flushed
                        deeply and an embarrassed gleam came to his eyes. "Why, I am using
                        your handkerchief. I assure you I did not know what I was doing when I took
                        it from you. Have I ruined it?"
                    Miss Vernon laughed at his concern and her face 
                        brightened considerably. As she looked into his clear blue eyes and his
                        square, firm face she observed for the first time that he was quite a
                        handsome fellow.
                    "It won't soil it at all," she said.
                    "But it was thoughtless, even rude of me, to take yours when I had
                        my own. I am so sorry."
                    "Do you think this will be large enough, Hugh?" she asked,
                        holding up a piece of black court plaster. The stranger laughed.
                    "If the cut is as big as that I'd better consult a
                        surgeon," he said. "About one-tenth of that, I should
                        say."
                    "All right," she said cheerfully. "It is your
                        wound."
                    "But you are the doctor," he protested.
                    "I dare say it is too big to look well. People might think you were
                        dynamited. Does it pain you?" she asked solicitously. For an
                        instant their eyes looked steadily, unwaveringly, into each other,one of
                        those odd, involuntary searches which no one can explain and which never
                        happen but once to the same people.
                    "Not at all," he replied, glancing out over the tumbling
                        waves with a look which proved they were strange to him. Hugh dashed away
                        and soon returned with a glass of brandy, which the stranger swallowed
                        meekly and not very gracefully. Then he sat very still while Grace applied
                        the court-plaster to the little gash at the apex of a rapidly rising
                        lump.
                    "Thank you," he said. "You are awfully good to  a clumsy wretch who might have crushed you. I
                        shall endeavor to repay you both for your kindness." He started to
                        arise from Hugh's chair, but that gentleman pushed him back.
                    "Keep the chair until you get straightened out a bit. I'll
                        show you how to walk deck in a rough sea. But pardon me, you are an American
                        like ourselves, are you not? I am Hugh Ridge, and this is my sisterMiss
                        Ridge."
                    "My name is VeathHenry Veath," the other said as he bowed.
                        "I am so glad to meet my own countrymen among all these foreigners.
                        Again, let me thank you."
                    "Hardly a good sailor?" observed Hugh.
                    "As you may readily guess."
                    "It's pretty rough to-day. Are you going to Gibraltar and
                        Spain?"
                    "Only as a bird of passage. I am going out for our government.
                        It's a long and roundabout way they've sent me, but poor
                        men must go where opportunity points the way. I assure you this voyage was
                        not designed for my pleasure. However, I enjoyed a couple of days in
                        London."
                    "An important mission, I should say," ventured Mr.
                        Ridge.
                    "I'm in the revenue service. It is all new to me, so it
                        doesn't matter much where I begin."
                    "Where are you to be stationed?" asked Hugh, and something
                        told him what the answer would be before it fell from the other's
                        lips.
                    "Manila."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    HENRY VEATH
                    MR. VEATH's abrupt
                        announcement that he was bound for Manila was a decided shock to Grace, Hugh
                        escaping because of his intuitive revelation. After the revenue man had gone
                        below to lie down awhile before luncheon the elopers indulged in an animated
                        discussion of affairs under new conditions.
                    "Well, we can make use of him after we get there, dear,"
                        said Hugh philosophically. "He can be a witness and swear to your
                        age when I go for the license."
                    "But, Hugh, he thinks we are brother and sister, and we cannot tell
                        him anything to the contrary. It would be awfully embarrassing to try to
                        explain."
                    "That's so," mused he. "I doubt whether
                        we could make him believe that brothers and sisters marry in Manila.
                        There's just one thing to do."
                    "It seems to me there are a great many things to do that we
                        didn't consider when we started," ventured she.
                    "We must let him believe we are brother and sister until after we
                        are married. Then we'll have the laugh on him. I know it's
                        not very pleasant to explain your own joke, or to tell the other fellow when
                        to laugh, but it seems to be the only way. We can't  escape him, you know. He is to be at his post
                        by the twentieth of May."
                    "After all, I think we ought to be nice to him. We can't
                        put him off the boat and we might just as well be friendly. How would you
                        enjoy travelling to Manila all alone? Just put yourself in his
                        place."
                    "Maybe he thinks he's lucky to be travelling
                        alone."
                    "That's very pretty, sir. Would you rather be travelling
                        alone?"
                    "Not at all. I'm only saying what he may think. The poor
                        devil may be married, you know."
                    "Oh, do you really think so?" cried she.
                    "He looks a little subdued."
                    "That's because he's seasick."
                    "But, to return to our own troublesyou think, then, we would better
                        adopt Mr. Veath for the voyage and break the news to him impressively after
                        the deed is done?"
                    "I think so, don't you? It is sure to be embarrassing, any
                        way you put it, isn't it?" she asked, laughing
                        nervously.
                    "Oh, I don't know," he replied airily.
                        "People of our nerve should not be embarrassed by anything on
                        earth." He arose and assisted her to her feet. Then, slipping his
                        arm through hers, he started for the companionway. "The prospect of
                        being brother and sister for ten thousand miles is rather obnoxious to
                        me," he went on. She looked at him in surprise and then blushed
                        faintly. As they descended the steps, he put his arm around her shoulder. At
                        the bottom  he stopped and glanced around
                        apprehensively, something like alarm appearing in his face. His arm slipped
                        from her shoulder to her waist and contracted suddenly.
                    "What is the matter, Hugh?" she whispered, looking quickly
                        about as if expecting a calamity.
                    "Is any one in sight?" he demanded anxiously.
                    "I don't see a soul," she answered.
                    "Then I'm going to give up the brother act for a moment or
                        two. This is a good, sequestered spot, and I'm going to kiss
                        you." And he did so more than once. "That's the
                        first chance I've had to kiss you since we came aboard. What an
                        outrage it is that brothers cannot be more attentive to their own sisters
                        than to other men's sisters."
                    "It seems to be customary for brothers to neglect their
                        sisters," she suggested demurely.
                    "A brother who neglects his sister ought to be
                        horsewhipped," declared he.
                    "Amen to that. They use the cat-o'-nine-tails on board
                        ship, you must remember," she said, smiling.
                    Shortly afterward he dropped in to see Veath and was welcomed gladly. He was
                        lying in his berth, and Hugh sent for a bottle of his champagne. Two glasses
                        of the wine put new life into him and something of a sparkle flew to his
                        dull eyes, as if cast there by the bubbling liquor. His tongue loosened a
                        little, Hugh finding him to be a bright, sensible fellow, somewhat ignorant
                        of the ways of the world, but entirely capable of taking care of himself.
                        Moreover,  with the renewed vigor displaying
                        itself, he was far better looking than his new acquaintance had thought. His
                        blue eyes, keen and clear, appealed to Hugh's love for
                        straightforwardness; his wide mouth bespoke firmness, good nature, and the
                        full ability to enjoy the humorous side of things. The lines about his
                        clean-cut, beardless face were a trifle deep, and there was a network of
                        those tiny wrinkles which belong to men of forty-five and not to those of
                        twenty-eight.
                    Evidently his had not been a life of leisure. As he lounged easily upon the
                        edge of the berth, Hugh could not but admire his long, straight figure, the
                        broad shoulders and the pale face with its tense earnestness.
                    "Manila, you know, is an important post these days," said
                        Veath. "There's a lot of work to be done there in the next
                        few years. I'm from Indiana. Every able-bodied man in our district
                        who voted right and hasn't anything else to do wants a government
                        job. Of course, most of them want to be consul-generals, postmasters, or
                        heads of bureaus, but there are some of us who will take the best thing that
                        is offered. That's why I am going to Manila. Politics, you know,
                        and my uncle's influence with the administration."
                        Ridgeway observed that wine made loquacious a man who was naturally
                        conservative. "Where are you going?" he continued.
                    "We are going to Manila."
                    "What!" gasped Veath. "You don't mean
                        it!"
                    
                    "Certainly. Why not?" and Hugh smiled delightedly over the
                        sensation he had created.
                    "Whywhy, it seems improbable," stammered Veath. "I
                        had looked upon Manila as the most wretched hole in the world, and yet I
                        find you going there, evidently from choice."
                    "Well, you'll have to change your opinion now,"
                        said Hugh.
                    "I doforthwith. It cannot be such a bad place or you
                        wouldn't be taking your sister there. May I ask what is your object
                        in going to Manila?"
                    Hugh turned red in the face and stooped over to flick an imaginary particle
                        of dust from his trousers' leg. There was but one object in their
                        going and he had not dreamed of being asked what it was. He could not be
                        employed forever in brushing away that speck, and yet he could not, to save
                        his life, construct an answer to Veath's question. In the midst of
                        his despair a sudden resolution came, and he looked up, his lips twitching
                        with suppressed laughter.
                    "We are going as missionaries."
                    He almost laughed aloud at the expression on Veath's face. It
                        revealed the utmost dismay. There was a moment's silence, and then
                        the man in the berth said slowly:
                    "Is Miss Ridge aa missionary also?"
                    "The very worst kind," replied Hugh cheerily.
                    "Going out among the natives, I suppose?"
                    "What natives?"
                    
                    "Why,the Igorrotes, or whatever they are, of course."
                    "Oh, of courseto be sure," cried Hugh hastily. "I
                        am so damned absent-minded."
                    Veath stared in amazement.
                    "You must not think it strange that I swear," said Hugh,
                        mopping his brow. "I am not the missionary, you know."
                    "Oh," was the other's simple exclamation. Another
                        pause and then, "You don't mean to say that such a
                        beautiful woman is going to waste her life among savages?"
                    "She's got her head set on it and we think the only way to
                        break her of it is to give her a sample of the work. I am going with her
                        ostensibly to protect, but really to make her life miserable."
                    "I rather admire her devotion to the church," said Veath,
                        still a trifle dazed.
                    "She's a great crank on religion," admitted Hugh.
                        Then he could feel himself turn pale. He was passing Grace off as a
                        missionary, and thereby placing her under restrictions that never before had
                        entered into her gay life. Veath would treat her as if she were of fragile
                        glass and it would not be long until the whole boat would be staring at the
                        beautiful girl who was going to the heathen. Remorse struck him and he tried
                        to flounder out of the position.
                    "I should not have said that about her views. You would never take
                        her to be an ardent church-member, and she is particularly averse to being
                        called a missionary.  The truth about the
                        matter is that very few people home know about this move of hers and there
                        is no one on ship who even suspects. She would not have had me tell it for
                        the world."
                    "My dear Mr. Ridge, don't let that trouble you. She shall
                        never know that you have told me and I shall never repeat it. Please rest
                        assured; her wishes in the matter are most certainly to be considered
                        sacred," cried Veath warmly.
                    "Thanks, old man," said Hugh, very much relieved.
                        "Your hand on that. I am not sorry I told you, for I'm
                        sure you will be careful. She objects to the thewell, the notoriety of the
                        thing, you know. Hates to be glared at, questioned, and all that sort of
                        thing."
                    "She is very sensible in that respect. I have but little use for the
                        people who parade their godliness."
                    "That's just the way she looks at it. She would be
                        uncomfortable all the way over if she thought that a single person knew of
                        her intentions. Funny girl that way."
                    "If I were you, I don't believe I'd tell any one
                        else," said Veath hesitatingly.
                    "That's all right, Veath. Depend upon me, I'll not
                        breathe it to another soul. It shall not go a bit farther. Grace wants to go
                        about the good work as quietly as possible. Still, I am bound to make her
                        forget the heathen and return to America another woman altogether."
                        Mr. Veath, of course, did not understand the strange smile that flitted over
                        his  companion's face as he uttered
                        the last remark. "I'm glad I met you, Veath;
                        we'll get along famously, I'm sure. There's no
                        reason why we shouldn't make the voyage a jolly one. I think
                        we'd better get ready for luncheon," said Hugh, looking at
                        his watch.
                    Hugh took his departure, and fifteen minutes later was seated at one of the
                        tables in the dining-room with Grace beside him. He had told her of the
                        missionary story and was trying to smile before her display of genuine
                        annoyance.
                    "But I don't want him to treat me as if I were a
                        missionary," she pouted. "What fun can a missionary
                        have?"
                    "Oho, you want to have fun with him, eh? That's the way the
                        wind blows, is it? I'll just tell Mr. Veath that you pray night and
                        day, and that you don't like to be disturbed. What do you suppose
                        he'd be if he interrupted a woman's prayers?"
                        demanded he, glaring at her half jealously.
                    "He'd be a heathen and I should have to enlighten
                        him," she answered sweetly.
                    Just then Mr. Veath entered the saloon and took a seat beside her. She looked
                        surprised, as did Mr. Ridgeway. They looked to the far end of the table and
                        saw that Veath's original chair was occupied by another man.
                    "I traded seats with that fellow," murmured Veath, a trifle
                        red about the ears. Miss Vernon's face assumed a stony expression
                        for an instant, but the gleam of pure frankness in his eyes dispelled her
                        momentary 
                        
                            GRACE VERNON
                        
                        
                         disapproval. "You don't
                        mind, do you?" he asked hastily.
                    "Not at all, Mr. Veath," she said, forgetting that a moment
                        before she had considered him presumptuous. "On the contrary, I
                        think it is so much nicer to have you on this side of the table. We can talk
                        without having everybody in the room hear us."
                    "I have just heard that we are bound for the same destination and we
                        can certainly speculate among ourselves as to the outcome of our individual
                        and collective pilgrimages. We can talk about shipwrecks, pirates, simoons,
                        cholera, sea serpents"
                    "And the heathen," said Hugh maliciously, but not looking
                        up from his plate.
                    "Ahem!" coughed loyal Mr. Veath.
                    "Are there any heathen over there?" asked Miss Vernon very
                        innocently but also very maliciously. She smiled at Hugh, who leaned far
                        back in his chair and winked solemnly at the bewildered Veath. That
                        gentleman, manlike, interpreted Hugh's wink as the means of
                        conveying the information that the tactful young lady asked the question
                        merely to throw him off the scent. So he answered very politely but very
                        carefully.
                    "I hear there are more missionaries than heathen."
                    "Indeed? Don't you think that the women who go out as
                        missionaries among those vile creatures are perfect idiots, Mr.
                        Veath?"
                    "Well,ahem, ah," stammered Veath, "I
                        can't say that I do. I think, if you will permit me to disagree  with you, that they are the noblest women in
                        the world."
                    "Excellent sentiment, Veath," said the merry Ridgeway,
                        "and quite worthy of endorsement by this misguided sister of mine.
                        She despises the heathen, you know."
                    "Oh, I am sure she does not despise them," cried Veath.
                    "But I doI think they ought to be burned alive!"
                    A dead silence, during which the two men were unnecessarily intent upon the
                        contents of their plates, followed this explosion. Miss Vernon demurely
                        smiled to herself, and finally kicked Hugh's foot. He laughed aloud
                        suddenly and insanely and then choked. Veath grew very red in the face,
                        perhaps through restraint. The conversation from that moment was strained
                        until the close of the meal, and they did not meet at all during dinner.
                    "Perhaps we have offended him," said Grace as they strolled
                        along the deck that evening.
                    "It's probable that he thinks we are blamed fools and does
                        not care to waste his time on us."
                    "Then why did he change his seat?"
                    "Evidently did not want us to be staring him out of countenance all
                        the time. I notice, sister, that he took the seat next to yours and not to
                        mine," remarked he insinuatingly.
                    "Which proves that he is no fool,
                        brother," she retorted.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    GLUM DAYS FOR MR. RIDGE
                    GIBRALTAR. And the ship stopping only long enough to
                        receive the mail and take on passengers; then off again.
                    During the voyage in the Bay of Biscay, Veath had done all in his power to
                        relieve Hugh of the boredom which is supposed to fall upon the man who has a
                        sister clinging to him. At first Hugh rather enjoyed the situation, but as
                        Veath's amiable sacrifice became more intense, he grew
                        correspondingly uncomfortable. It was not precisely what he had bargained
                        for. There was nothing in Veath's manner which could have been
                        objectionable to the most exacting of brothers.
                    When he was trespassing Hugh hated him, but when they were together, with
                        Grace absent, he could not but admire the sunny-faced, frank, stalwart
                        Indianian. When Hugh's heart was sorest, a slap on the back from
                        Veath, a cheery word and an unspoken pledge of friendship brought shame to
                        take the place of resentment.
                    She was troubled, as well as he, by the turn of affairs; her distress managed
                        to keep her awake of nights, especially when she began to realize there was
                        no  escape from consequences. That usually
                        pleasant word "brother" became unbearable to her; she
                        began to despise it. To him, the word "sister" was the
                        foundation for unpublishable impressions.
                    Poor Veath knew nothing of all this and continued to "show Miss
                        Ridge a good time." On the second night out of Gibraltar, he and
                        Grace were strolling the deck. He was happy, she in deep despair. Down at
                        the other end of the deck-house, leaning over the rail, smoking viciously,
                        was Hugh, alone, angry, sulky. It was a beautiful night, cool and crisp,
                        calm and soft. A rich full moon threw its glorious shimmer across the waves,
                        flashing a million silvery blades along the watery pavement that seemed to
                        lead to the end of the world. Scores of passengers were walking the deck,
                        and all were happy, save two.
                    For two days Hugh had found but little chance to speak with Grace. She had
                        plotted and calculated and so had he, but Veath gallantly upset the
                        plans.
                    "This can't go on any longer, or I'll go
                        back," vowed Hugh as he glared with gloomy eyes at the innocent
                        path of silver.
                    "Your brother is not very sociable of late, is he, Miss
                        Ridge?" asked Veath, as they turned once more up the deck toward
                        the disconsolate relative. "There are a great many pretty young
                        women on board, but he seems to ignore them completely. I haven't
                        seen him speak to a woman in two days."
                    "Perhaps he is in love," she murmured half sedately. Poor,
                        lonely Hugh! How she longed to steal up from 
                        behind and throw her arms about his neck. Even though both fell overboard,
                        it would be a pleasure, it seemed to her.
                    "We ought to go over and jolly him up a bit," suggested
                        Veath, innocently magnanimous. She hated him at that moment.
                    "He is probably enjoying himself better than if we were with
                        him," she said rather coldly.
                    "Lovers usually like moonshine," he said.
                    "I did not say he was in love; `perhaps' was the word, I
                        think," said Grace.
                    "I believe one of the rules of love is that a brother never confides
                        in his sister. At any rate, she is sure to be among the last."
                    "I think Hugh would tell me of his love
                        affairs," she answered, a merry sparkle coming into her eyes.
                        "He thinks a great deal of my opinions."
                    "And I suppose you tell him of your love affairs," he said
                        jestingly. She blushed furiously.
                    "He has a whole book full of my confidences," she finally
                        said, seeking safety in exaggeration.
                    "Quite an interesting volume. How does it end? With an
                        elopement?"
                    "Elopement! What do youoh, ah, Iha, ha! Wouldn't that be a
                        jolly way to end it?" She laughed hysterically, recovering quickly
                        from the effects of the startling, though careless question. For a few
                        moments her heart throbbed violently.
                    Hugh came swinging toward them, his cigar tilted upward at an unusual angle
                        because of the savage  position of the lower
                        jaw. His hands were jammed into his pockets and his cap was drawn well down
                        over his eyes. He was passing without a word, ignoring them more completely
                        than if they had been total strangers. He would, at least, have glanced at
                        strangers.
                    "Hello, Mr. Ridge, going below?" called Veath.
                    "I'm going wherever the ship goes," came the
                        sullen reply.
                    "Hope she's not going below,"
                        laughed the disturber.
                    "It's my only hope," was the bitter retort from
                        the companionway.
                    "He's certainly in love, Miss Ridge. Men don't
                        have the blues like that unless there's a woman in the case. I
                        think you'd better talk to your brother. Tell him she'll
                        be true, and if she isn't, convince him that there are just as good
                        fish in the sea. Poor fellow, I suppose he thinks she's the only
                        woman on earth," commented Mr. Veath, with mock solemnity.
                    "She may be as much at sea as he," she said,and very
                        truthfully.
                    "Well, if love dies, there is a consolation in knowing that the sea
                        casts up its dead," was his sage, though ill-timed remark.
                    Grace slept but little that night, and went early to breakfast in the hope
                        that she might see Hugh alone. But he came in late, haggard and pale, living
                        evidence of a sleepless night. Veath was with him and  her heart sank. During the meal the good-natured Indianian did
                        most of the talking, being driven at last, by the strange reticence of his
                        companions, to the narration of a series of personal experiences. Struggle
                        as he would, he could not bring a mirthful laugh from the girl beside him,
                        nor from the sourvisaged man beyond. They laughed, of course, but it was the
                        laugh of politeness.
                    "I wonder if she is in love, too," shot through his mind,
                        and a thrill of regret grew out of the possibility. Once his eye caught her
                        in the act of pressing Hugh's hand as it was being withdrawn from
                        sight. With a knowing smile he bent close to her and whispered:
                        "That's right, cheer him up!" Grace admitted
                        afterward that nothing had ever made her quite so furious as that friendly
                        expression.
                    But jealousy is jealousy. It will not down. The next three days were
                        miserable ones for Hugh. The green-eyed monster again cast the cloak of
                        moroseness over himswathed him in the inevitable wet blanket, as it were.
                        During the first two days Veath had performed a hundred little acts of
                        gallantry which fall to the lot of a lover but hardly to that of a brothera
                        score of things that would not have been observed by the latter, but which
                        were inwardly cursed by the lover. Hugh began to have the unreasonable fear
                        that she cared more for Veath's society than she did for his. He
                        was in ugly humor at lunch time and sent a rather peremptory message to
                        Grace's room, telling her that he was hungry and asking her  to get ready at once. The steward brought back
                        word that she was not in her room. She had been out since ten
                        o'clock.
                    Without a word Ridgeway bolted to Veath's room and knocked at the
                        door. There was no response. The steward, quite a distance down the
                        passageway, heard the American gentleman swear distinctly and
                        impressively.
                    He ate his luncheon alone,disconsolate, furious, miserable. Afterward he
                        sought recreation and finally went to his room, where he tried to read. Even
                        that was impossible.
                    Some time later he heard her voice, then Veath's.
                    "I wonder if Hugh is in his room?" she was asking.
                    "He probably thinks we've taken a boat and eloped. Shall I
                        rap and see?" came in Veath's free voice.
                    "Pleaseand we'll tell him where we have been."
                    "You will like thunder!" hissed Hugh to himself, glaring at
                        the door as if he could demolish it.
                    Then came a vigorous pounding on the panel; but he made no move to respond.
                        Again the knocking and a smile, not of mirth, overspread his face.
                    "Knock! Confound you! You can't get in!" he
                        growled softly but triumphantly. Veath tried the knob, but the door was
                        locked.
                    "He's not in, Miss Ridge. I'll see if I can find
                        him. Good-bysee you at luncheon."
                    Then came Grace's voice, sweet and untroubled:
                    "Tell him we'll go over the ship another time with him."
                    
                    "Over the ship," growled Hugh almost loud enough to be
                        heard. "So they're going to square it by taking brother
                        with them another timeeh? Well, not if I know it! I'll show her
                        what's what!" A minute later he rapped at Miss
                        Vernon's stateroom. She was removing her hat before the mirror, and
                        turning quickly as the irate Hugh entered, she cried:
                    "Hello, Hugh! Where have you been, dear?"
                    "Dear! Don't call me dear," he rasped.
                    "Why, Hugh, dear,Mr. Veath looked everywhere for you this morning. I
                        said I would not go unless he could find you. You would have enjoyed it so
                        much."
                    "And you really wanted me?" he asked guiltily.
                    "Of course, I didwe both did. Won't you ever understand
                        that I love youand you alone?"
                    "I guess I'll never understand love at all," he
                        mused.
                    "Now where were you all morning?" she demanded.
                    "He didn't look in the right place, that's
                        all."
                    "Where was the right place?"
                    "It happened to be in the wrong place," he said. He had
                        been playing a social game of bridge in the room of one of the passengers.
                        At this moment Veath was heard at the door. Hugh heartily called out to him,
                        bidding him to enter.
                    "Why, here you are! Been looking everywhere for you, old man. Sorry
                        you were not along this morning," said the newcomer, shaking
                        Ridgeway's hand.
                    "I didn't care to see the ship," said Hugh
                        hastily.
                    
                    "Why, how funny!" cried Grace. "How did you know
                        we had been over the ship?"
                    "Instinct," he managed to gulp in the confusion.
                    Veath started for the dining-room, followed by Grace and Hugh, the latter
                        refraining from mentioning that he had already lunchedinsufficiently though
                        it had been; but with the return of reason had come back his appetite and
                        gradually he felt the old happiness sifting into his heart.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    THE BEAUTIFUL STRANGER
                    THEY were now well along in the Mediterranean. The air was
                        cool and crisp, yet there were dozens of people on deck watching the sunset
                        and the sailors who were trimming the ship. There were passengers on board
                        for China, Japan, India and Australia. A half hundred soldiers, returning to
                        the East, after a long furlough at home, made the ship lively. They were
                        under loose discipline and were inclined to be hilarious. A number were
                        forward now, singing the battle songs of the British and the weird ones of
                        the natives. Quite a crowd had collected to listen, including Ridgeway and
                        Veath, who were strolling along the deck, arm in arm, enjoying an
                        after-dinner smoke, and had paused in their walk near the group, enjoying
                        the robust, devil-may-care tones of the gallant subalterns.
                    Miss Vernon was in her stateroom trying to jot down in a newly opened diary
                        the events of the past ten days. She was up to ears in the work, and was
                        almost overcome by its enthusiasm. It was to be a surprise for Hugh at some
                        distant day, when she could have it printed and bound for him alone. There
                        was to be but one copy printed, positively, and it was to belong  to Hugh. Her lover as he strode the deck was
                        unconscious of the task unto which she had bent her energy. He knew nothing
                        of the unheard-of intricacies in punctuation, spelling and phraseology. She
                        was forced at one time to write Med and a dash, declaring, in chagrin, that
                        she would add the remainder of the word when she could get to a place where
                        a dictionary might tell her whether it was spelled Mediterranean or or
                        Mediteranian.
                    Suddenly, Hugh pressed Veath's arm a little closer. "Look
                        over there near the rail. There's the prettiest girl I've
                        ever seen!"
                    "Where?"
                    "Can't point, because she's looking this way. Girl
                        with a dark green coat, leaning on an old gentleman's
                        arm"
                    "I see," interrupted Veath. "By George!
                        she's pretty!"
                    "No name for it! Have you in your life ever seen anything so
                        beautiful?" cried Ridgeway. He stared at her so intently that she
                        averted her face. "Wonder who she can be? The old man must be her
                        father. Strange we haven't seen them before. I'm sure that
                        she hasn't been on deck."
                    "You seem interesteddo you want a flirtation?"
                    "Oh, Grace wouldn't stand for thatnot for a
                        minute."
                    "I don't believe she would object if you carried it on
                        skilfully," smiled the other.
                    
                    "It wouldn't be right, no matter how harmless. I
                        couldn't think of being so confoundedly brutal."
                    "Sisters don't usually take such things to
                        heart."
                    Hugh came to himself with a start and for a moment or two could find no word
                        of response, so deeply engrossed was he in the effort to remember whether he
                        had said anything that might have betrayed his secret.
                    "Oh," he laughed awkwardly, "you don't
                        understand me. Grace is sowell, soconscientious, that if she thought I
                        wasertrifling, you know, with a girl, she'dshe'd have a
                        fit. Funniest girl you ever saw about those thingsperfect
                        paragon."
                    "Is it possible? Are you not a little strong on that point, old man?
                        I'm afraid you don't know your sister any better than
                        other men know theirs."
                    "What's that?" demanded Hugh, suddenly alert and
                        forgetful of the stranger.
                    "The last person on earth that a man gets acquainted with,
                        I've heard, is his sister," said Veath calmly.
                        "Go ahead and have a good time, old fellow; your sister
                        isn't so exacting as you thinktake my word for it."
                    It was fully five minutes before Hugh could extract himself from the slough
                        of speculation into which those thoughtless words had driven him. What did
                        Veath know about her ideas on such matters? Where did he learn so much? The
                        other spoke to him twice and received no answer. Finally he shook his arm
                        and said:
                    
                    "Must be love at first sight, Ridge. Are you spell-bound?"
                        Hugh merely glared at him and he continued imperturbably:
                        "She's pretty beyond a doubt. I'll have to find
                        out who she is."
                    "That's right, Veath; find out," cried Hugh,
                        bright in an instant. "Make her have a good time. Poor thing,
                        she'll find it pretty dull if she hangs to her father all the
                        time."
                    "He isn't a very amusing-looking old chap, is he? If that
                        man hasn't the gout and half a dozen other troubles I'll
                        jump overboard."
                    The couple arousing the interest of the young men stood near the forward end
                        of the deck-house. The young woman's face was beaming with an
                        inspiration awakened by the singers. Her companion, tall, gray and
                        unimpressionable, listened as if through coercion and not for pleasure. His
                        lean face, red with apoplectic hues, grim with the wrinkles of three score
                        years or more, showed clear signs of annoyance. The thin gray moustache was
                        impatiently gnawed, first on one side and then on the other. Then the
                        military streak of gray that bristled forth as an imperial was pushed upward
                        and between the lips by bony fingers. He was a picture of dutiful rebellion.
                        Immaculately dressed was he, and distinguished from the soles of his pointed
                        shoes to the beak of his natty cap. A light colored newmarket of the most
                        fashionable cut was buttoned closely about his thin figure.
                    The young woman was not tall, nor was she short; she was of that indefinite
                        height known as medium.  Her long green coat
                        fitted her snugly and perfectly; a cap of the same material was perched
                        jauntily upon her dark hair. The frolicking wind had torn several strands
                        from beneath the cap, and despite the efforts of her gloved fingers, they
                        whipped and fluttered in tantalizing confusion. In the dimming afternoon the
                        Americans could see that she was exquisitely beautiful. They could see the
                        big dark eyes, almost timid in the hiding places beyond the heavy fringing
                        lashes. Her dark hair threw the rich face into clear relief,fresh, bright,
                        eager. The men were not close enough to observe with minuteness its
                        features, but its brilliancy was sufficient to excite even marvelling
                        admiration. It was one of those faces at which one could look for ever and
                        still feel there was a charm about it he had not caught.
                    "I've never seen such a face before," again
                        murmured Ridgeway.
                    "Tastes differ," said Veath. "Now, if
                        you'll pardon me, I think Miss Ridge is the more beautiful. She is
                        taller and has better style. Besides, I like fair women. What say?"
                        The question was prompted by the muttered oath that came from Hugh.
                    "Nothing at all," he almost snarled. "Say, Veath,
                        don't always be talking to me about my sister," he finally
                        jerked out, barely able to confine himself to this moderately sensible
                        abjuration while his brain was seething with other and stronger
                        expressions.
                    "I beg your pardon, Ridge; I did not know that I talked very much
                        about her." There was a brief silence  and then he continued: "Have a fresh cigar, old man."
                        Hugh took the cigar ungraciously, ashamed of his petulance.
                    By this time the early shades of night had begun to settle and the figures
                        along the deck were growing faint in the shadows. Here and there sailors
                        began to light the deck lamps; many of the passengers went below to avoid
                        the coming chill. In her state-room Grace was just writing: "For
                        over a week we have been sailing under British colors, we good Americans,
                        Hugh and I,and I may add, Mr. Veath."
                    Another turn down the promenade and back brought Ridgeway and Veath face to
                        face with the old gentleman and the young lady, who were on the point of
                        starting below. The Americans paused to let them pass, lifting their caps.
                        The old gentleman, now eager and apparently more interested in life and its
                        accompaniments, touched the vizor of his cap in response, and the young lady
                        smiled faintly as she drew her skirts aside and passed before him.
                    "Did you ever see a smile like that?" cried Hugh, as the
                        couple disappeared from view.
                    "Thousands," answered his companion.
                        "They're common as women themselves. Any woman has a
                        pretty smile when she wants it."
                    "You haven't a grain of sentiment, confound
                        you."
                    "They don't teach sentiment on the farm, and
                        there's where I began this unappreciative existence of mine. But I
                        am able to think a lot sometimes."
                    
                    "That's about all a fellow has to do on a farm,
                        isn't it?"
                    "That and die, I believe."
                    "And get married?"
                    "Naturally, in order to think more. A man has to think for two after
                        he's married, you see."
                    "Quite sarcastic that. You don't think much of women, I
                        fancy."
                    "Not in the plural."
                    Captain Shadburn was nearing them on the way from the chart-house, and the
                        young men accosted him, Veath inquiring:
                    "Captain, who is the tall old gentleman you were talking to forward
                        awhile ago?"
                    "That is Lord Huntingford, going over to straighten out some
                        complications for the Crown. He is a diplomat of the first
                        water."
                    "Where are these complications, may I ask?"
                    "Oh, in China, I think. He is hurrying across as fast as possible.
                        He leaves the ship at Hong Kong, and nobody knows just what his mission is;
                        that's between him and the prime minister, of course. But,
                        good-evening, gentlemen. I have a game of cribbage after dinner with his
                        Lordship." The captain hurried below.
                    "A real live lord," said Veath. "The first
                        I've seen."
                    "China," Hugh repeated. "I hope we may get to know
                        them."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    MR. RIDGEWAY'S AMAZEMENT
                    AT dinner Hugh was strangely exuberant, jesting gaily and
                        exchanging rare witticisms with Veath, who also appeared immensely
                        satisfied. As they left the saloon he said:
                    "Let's take a turn on deck, Grace."
                    "Won't you include me?" asked Veath.
                    "Certainly," answered Grace promptly.
                    "Be delighted," echoed Hugh, swallowing as if it were an
                        effort.
                    "I must get a wrap," said Grace. "I won't
                        delay you more than five minutes."
                    "I'll get my overcoat and some cigars," added
                        Hugh.
                    "And I'll write a short letter to post at Malta,"
                        said Veath, and they separated.
                    A short while later, a steward passed Hugh's stateroom, and he
                        called to him to step to the next door and tell Miss Ridge that he was
                        ready.
                    "Miss Ridge just went up with her gentleman" the man
                        responded; but Hugh interrupted, slamming the door. For several minutes he
                        stood glaring at the upper corner of his berth; then he said something
                        strong. Every vestige of his exuberance disappeared,  his brow clouded and his heart seemed to swell painfully
                        within its narrow confines.
                    As he was about to ascend the steps of the companionway, he heard the swish
                        of skirts and then a sharp scream. In an instant he was half way up, his
                        arms extended. Lord Huntingford's daughter plunged into them, and
                        he literally carried her to the foot. She was pale and trembling and he was
                        flushed. He had looked up in time to see her falling forward, vainly
                        striving to reach the hand rail.
                    "Are you hurt?" he asked anxiously. The young lady sat down
                        upon the second step before answering, a delightful pink stealing over her
                        face.
                    "II don't believe I am," she said. "My
                        heel caught on a step and I fell. It was so clumsy of me. I might have been
                        badly hurt if you had not caught me as you did."
                    "These steps are so uncertain," he said, scowling at them.
                        "Somebody 'll get hurt here some day. But, really, are you
                        quite sure you are not hurt? Didn't you twist
                        youryour"
                    "Ankle? Not in the least. See! I can stand on both of them. I am not
                        hurt at all. Let me thank you," she said, smiling into his eyes as
                        she moved away.
                    "May I assist you?" he asked eagerly.
                    "Oh, no; I thank you, Mr. Veath. I would not have my preserver
                        perform the office of a crutch. I am not hurt in the least.
                        Good-afternoon."
                    Hugh, disconcerted and piqued by her confusion of  names, answered her wondrous smile with one that reflected
                        bewildered admiration, and finally managed to send after her:
                    "I wouldn't have lost the opportunity for the
                        world."
                    That evening he was sitting out on deck in contemplative silence enjoying his
                        after-dinner smoke. Farther down were Grace and Veath. Suddenly turning in
                        their direction, Hugh perceived that they were not there; nor were they
                        anywhere in sight. He was pondering over their whereabouts, his eyes still
                        on the vacant chairs, when a voice tender and musical assailed his earsa
                        voice which he had heard but once before.
                    "Good-evening, Mr. Veath."
                    He wheeled about and found himself staring at the smiling face of the young
                        lady who had fallen into his arms but a few hours before.
                    "Good-evening," he stammered, amazed by her unexpected
                        greeting. "Havehave you fully recovered from your
                        fall?"
                    "I was quite over it in a moment or two. I wanted to ask you if you
                        were hurt by the force with which I fell against you." She stood
                        with one hand upon the rail, quite close to him, the moonlight playing upon
                        her upturned face. He never had seen a more perfect picture of airy grace
                        and beauty in his life.
                    "Why mention an impossibility? You could not have hurt me in a fall
                        ten times as great."
                    His tall figure straightened and his eyes gleamed chivalrously. The young
                        woman's dark, mysterious  eyes swept
                        over him for a second, resting at last upon those which looked admiringly
                        into them from above. She made a movement as if to pass on, gravely smiling
                        a farewell.
                    "I beg your pardon," he said hastily. "You called
                        me Mr. Veath a moment ago. It may be of no consequence to you, yet I should
                        like to tell you that my name is RidgeHugh Ridge."
                    "It is my place to beg forgiveness. But I understood your name was
                        Veath, and that you werewere"here she smiled
                        tantalizingly"in love with the beautiful American, Miss
                        Ridge."
                    "The devdickI mean, the mischief you did! Well, of all the fool
                        conclusions I've ever heard, that is the worst. In love with my
                        sister! Ho, ho!" He laughed rather too boisterously.
                    "But there is a Mr. Veath on board, is there not?a
                        friend?"
                    "A Mr. Henry Veath going into the American Revenue Service at
                        Manila."
                    "How stupid of me! However, I am positive that I was told it was Mr.
                        Veath who was in love with Miss Ridge."
                    "But he isn't," hastily cried Hugh, turning hot
                        and cold by turns. "He's just a friend. Sheshe is to marry
                        another chap." Here he gulped painfully. "But please
                        don't breathe it to a soul. She'd hate me forever. Can I
                        trust you?" To himself, he was saying: "I am making a
                        devil of a mess of this elopement."
                    
                    "This is a very large world, Mr. Ridge, and this voyage is a mere
                        trifle in time. When we leave the ship we may be parting forever, so her
                        secret would be safe, even though I shrieked it all over the East. You will
                        return to America before long, I presume?"
                    "I'm sure I don't know. We may stay a year or
                        so."
                    "Then the wedding is not a thing of the immediate
                        future?"
                    "Oh, yesthat is, I mean, certainly not."
                    "Pardon me for asking so many questions. It is very rude of
                        me." She said it so penitently that Hugh, unable to find words,
                        could only wave his hands in deprecation. "Isn't it a
                        perfect evening?" she went on, turning to the sea. The light breeze
                        blew the straying raven hair away from her temples, leaving the face clearly
                        chiselled out of the night's inkiness. Hugh's heart
                        thumped strangely as he noted her evident intention to remain on deck. She
                        turned to him swiftly and he averted his eyes, but not quickly enough to
                        prevent her seeing that he had been scrutinizing her intently. What she may
                        have intended to say was never uttered. Instead, she observed, a trifle
                        coldly:
                    "I must bid you good-night, Mr. Ridge."
                    "Pray, not yet," he cried; "I was just about to
                        ask if we might not sit in these chairs here for a little while. It is early
                        and it is so charming to-night." He looked into her eyes again and
                        found that she was gazing searchingly into his. A light smile broke into  life and she seemed to be satisfied with the
                        momentary analysis of the man before her.
                    "It does seem silly to stay below on a night like this. Shall we sit
                        here?" She indicated two vacant chairs well forward. The young lady
                        scorned a steamer rug, so he sat beside her, conscious that, despite her
                        charming presence, he was beginning to feel the air keenly. But he could not
                        admit it to this slight Englishwoman.
                    For half an hour or more they sat there, finding conversation easy, strangely
                        interesting to two persons who had nothing whatsoever in common. He was
                        charmed, delighted with this vivacious girl. And yet something mournful
                        seemed to shade the brilliant face now and then. It did not come and go,
                        moreover, for the frank, open beauty was always the same; it was revealed to
                        him only at intervals. Perhaps he saw it in her dark, tender eyeshe could
                        not tell. He saw Henry Veath pacing the deck, smoking andalone.
                        Hugh's heart swelled gladly and he spoke quite cheerily to Veath as
                        that gentleman sauntered past.
                    "Now, that is Mr. Veath, isn't it?" demanded his
                        fair companion.
                    "Yes; do you think we should be mistaken for each
                        other?"
                    "Oh, dear, no, now that I know you apart. You are utterly unlike,
                        except in height. How broad he is! Hasn't he a wonderful
                        back?" she cried, admiring the tall, straight figure of the
                        walker.
                    
                    "He got that on the farm."
                    "It is worth a farm to have shoulders like his, I should say. You
                        must introduce Mr. Veath to me."
                    Hugh looked at the moon very thoughtfully for a few moments and then, as if
                        remembering, said that he would be happy to do so, and was sure that Veath
                        would be even happier.
                    At this moment the tall, lank form of Lord Huntingford approached. He was
                        peering intently at the people in the chairs as he passed them, plainly
                        searching for some one.
                    "There is Lord Huntingford looking for you," said Hugh,
                        rising. He saw a trace of annoyance in her face as she also arose.
                        "I overheard him telling the captain that Lady Huntingfordyour
                        motherplays a miserable game of crib."
                    She started and turned sharply upon him.
                    "My mother, Mr. Ridge?" she said slowly.
                    "Yes; your father was guying Captain Shadburn about his game, you
                        know."
                    The look of wonder in her eyes increased; she passed her hand across her brow
                        and then through her hair in evident perplexity, all the while staring at
                        his face. There was a tinge of suspicion in her voice when she spoke.
                    "Mr. Ridge, don't you know?"
                    "Know what?"
                    "You surely know that I am not Lord
                        Huntingford's"
                    
                    "You don't mean to say that you are not his
                        daughter," gasped Hugh, dubious as to her meaning.
                    "I am Lady Huntingford."
                    "His wife?"
                    "His wife."
                    Hugh, too dumbfounded to speak, could do no more than doff his cap as she
                        took the arm of the gray lord and softly said to him:
                    "Good-night, Mr. Ridge."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    A SHARP ENCOUNTER
                    THE
                        Tempest Queen carried a merry cargo. The young officers,
                        the Americans and rich pleasure seekers from other landsyoung and oldmade up
                        a happy company. Of all on board, but one was despised and loathed by his
                        fellow-travellersLord Huntingford. Not so much for his manner toward them as
                        for his harsh, bitter attitude toward his young wife.
                    He reprimanded and criticised her openly, very much as he would have spoken
                        to a child, and always undeservedly. She endured patiently, to all
                        appearances, and her cloud of humiliation was swept away by the knowledge
                        that her new friends saw the injustice of his attacks. She did not pose
                        before them as a martyr; but they could see the subdued and angry pride and
                        the checked rebellion, for the mask of submission was thin, even though it
                        was dutiful.
                    The two young women, unlike as two women could be, became fast friends. The
                        Englishwoman was refinement, sweetness, even royalty itself; the American,
                        proud, equally refined, aggressive and possessed of a wit, shrewdness and
                        spontaneity of humor that often amazed the less subtle of the two. Tinges of
                        jealousy  sometimes shot into Grace's
                        heart when she saw Hugh talking to the new friend, but they disappeared with
                        the recollection of her Ladyship's pure, gentle nobility of
                        character. It is seen rarely by one woman in another.
                    And Veath? The stalwart, fresh-hearted, lean-faced Indianian was happier than
                        he had dreamed he could be when he drearily went aboard a ship at New York
                        with the shadow of exile upon him. He had won the friendship of all. The
                        brain of the Westerner was as big as his heart, and it had been filled with
                        the things which make men valuable to the world. Men called him the
                        "real American," and women conveyed a world of meaning in
                        the simple, earnest expression"I like Mr. Veath."
                    Veath was now unmistakably in love with Grace Vernon. The fact was borne in
                        upon him more and more positively as the sunny days and beautiful nights
                        drew them nearer to the journey's end. Occasionally he lapsed into
                        strange fits of dejection. These came when he stopped to ponder over certain
                        prospects, hopes and the stores of life. At times he cursed the fate which
                        had cast him into the world, big and strong, yet apparently helpless. It had
                        not been his ambition to begin life in the capacity which now presented
                        itself. His hopes had been limitless. Poverty had made his mind a treasure;
                        but poverty had also kept it buried. He saw before him the long fight for
                        opportunity, position, honor; but he was not the sort to quail. The victory
                        would be glorious  when he thought what it
                        might bring to him from Grace Ridgeshe who was going to be a missionary. A
                        long, hard fight, indeed, from revenue officer to minister plenipotentiary,
                        but it was ambition's war.
                    And Hugh? As the days went by, his jealousy of Veath became almost
                        intolerable. He dared not speak to Grace about it, for something told him
                        she was not to be censured. Even in his blind rage he remembered that she
                        was good and true, and was daring all for his sake. In calmer moments he
                        could not blame Veath, who believed the young lady to be sister, and not
                        sweetheart.
                    In view of his misery, Mr. Ridgeway was growing thin, morose, and subject to
                        long fits of despondency which Grace alone could comprehend. Both were
                        dissatisfied with the trip. That they could not be together constantly, as
                        they had expected, caused them hours of misery. They were praying for the
                        twentythird of May to come, praying with all their hearts. Beside whom did
                        Hugh walk during the deck strolls and at Port Said? With his sister? No,
                        indeed; that would have been unnatural. Who was Grace's natural
                        companion? Henry Veath or any one of a dozen attractive young officers. How
                        could it have been otherwise?
                    She was popular and in constant demand. There were not many young women
                        aboard and certainly but two or three attractive ones. From morning till far
                        in the night she was besieged by menalways men.  They ignored Hugh with all the indifference that falls to the lot of a
                        brother. Time after time they actually pounced upon the couple and dragged
                        her away without so much as "By your leave." They danced
                        with her, sang with her, walked with her and openly tried to make love to
                        her, all before the blazing eyes of one Hugh Ridgeway. On more than one
                        occasion he had gone without his dinner because some presumptuous officer
                        unceremoniously usurped his seat at table, grinning amiably when Hugh
                        appeared.
                    The sweet, dear little moments of privacy that Hugh and Grace obtained,
                        however, were morsels of joy which were now becoming more precious than the
                        fondest dreams of the wedded state to come. They coveted these moments with
                        a greediness that was almost sinful.
                    On many nights Grace would whisper to Hugh at the dinner table and would
                        creep quietly on deck, meal half finished, where he would join her like a
                        thief. Then they would hide from interruption as long as possible.
                    One night they enjoyed themselves more unrestrainedly than ever before in
                        their lives. They were walking self-consciously and almost guiltily near the
                        forward end of the deck-house when they saw Veath approaching far behind.
                        Their speed accelerated, and for half an hour they walked like pedestrians
                        in a racing match, always keeping some distance ahead of poor Veath, who
                        finally, like the sly fox, sat down and waited for them to hurry around and
                        come upon  him unexpectedly. He, of course,
                        never knew that they were trying to avoid him, nor could he imagine why
                        brother and sister were so flushed, happy and excited when he at last had
                        the pleasure of joining them in their walk. And, strange to say, although
                        they had been wildly happy in this little love chase, they felt that they
                        had mistreated a very good fellow and were saying as much to each other when
                        they almost bumped into him.
                    Womanly perception told Grace that Veath's regard for her was
                        beginning to assume a form quite beyond that of ordinary friendship. She
                        intuitively felt that he was beginning to love her. Perhaps he was already
                        in love, and was releasing those helpless little signs which a woman
                        understands, and which a man thinks he conceals impenetrably. The Queen was leaving Port Said and she was leaning on the
                        rail beside the big Indianian.
                    "Why are you going out to be a missionary?" he suddenly
                        asked. Then he flushed painfully, remembering when too late that he had
                        sworn to Hugh that he would not speak to her of the matter. "I beg
                        your pardon," he hurried on; "I promisedthat is, I should
                        not have asked you that question. I forgot, hang my stupidity."
                    "Mr. Veath, I am not going out to be a missionary. Nothing was ever
                        farther from my mind," she said, rather excitedly.
                    "Not going to be awhy, Hugh said you were. There I go, giving him
                        away again."
                    
                    "Hugh was jesting. I a missionary! How could you have believed
                        him?"
                    "Are you in earnest?" he cried.
                    "Of course I am in earnest," she said, trying to look
                        straight in those bright eyes, but failing dismally. Something in his glance
                        dazzled her. It was then that she knew the truth as well as if his mind were
                        an open book.
                    "Why are you going to the Philippines?" he persisted.
                    She gave him a quick, frightened glance and as hastily looked away. The red
                        of confusion rushed to her cheeks, her brow, her neck. What answer could she
                        give?
                    "We areare just taking the trip for pleasure," she
                        stammered. "Hugh and I took a sudden notion to go to Manila
                        andandwell, we are going, that's all."
                    "You don't mean to say you are making this as a pleasure
                        trip?" he asked, staring at her with a different light in his
                        eyes.
                    "A mere whim, you know," she hurried on. "Look at
                        those Arabs over there."
                    "But a pleasure trip of this kind must be awfully expensive,
                        isn't it?" he insisted.
                    She hesitated for an instant and then said boldly: "You see, Mr.
                        Veath, Hugh and I are very rich. It may not sound well for me to say it, but
                        we have much more money than we know how to spend. The cost of this voyage
                        is a mere trifle. Please do not  think that I
                        am boasting. It is the miserable truth." His face was very pale
                        when she dared to look up at it again, and his gaze was far off at sea.
                    "And so you are very rich," he mused aloud. "I
                        thought you were quite poor, because missionaries are seldom overburdened
                        with riches, according to tradition, or the gospel, or something like that.
                        This is a pleasure trip!" The bitterness of his tone could not be
                        hidden.
                    "I am sorry if you have had an idol shattered," she
                        said.
                    "Something has been shattered," he said, smiling.
                        "I don't know very much about idols," he added.
                        "How long do you expect to remain in Manila?"
                    "But a very short time," she said simply.
                    "And I shall have to stay there for years, I suppose," he
                        returned slowly. His eyes came to hers for a second and then went back to
                        the stretch of water like a flash. That brief glance troubled her greatly.
                        Her heart trembled with pity for the man beside her, even though speculation
                        wrought the emotion.
                    In her stateroom that night she lay, dry-eyed and wakeful, her inward cry
                        being: "It is a crime to have wounded this innocent man. Why must
                        he be made to suffer?"
                    She could not tell Hugh of her discovery, for she knew that he would be
                        unreasonable, perhaps do or say something which would make the wound more
                        painful. During the days that followed Veath was as pleasant, as genial, as
                        gallant as before; none but  Grace observed
                        the faint change in his manner. She was sure she could distinguish a change,
                        yet at times, when he was gayest, she thrilled with the hope that her belief
                        was the outgrowth of a conceit which she was beginning for the first time to
                        know she possessed. Then came the belief again and the belief was stronger
                        than the doubt. She could not be mistaken.
                    In the meantime an unexpected complication forced itself upon Hugh Ridgeway.
                        Perforce he had been thrown more or less constantly into the society of that
                        charming creature, Lady Huntingford. Not that the young rakes in uniform
                        were content to pass her by, but because she plainly preferred the young
                        American. It had not occurred to Mr. Ridgeway that his Lordship might be
                        expected, with reasonable propriety, to unmask a jealous streak in addition
                        to other disagreeable traits. The British subalterns probably knew the
                        temper of the old diplomat's mind, which, in a degree, explains
                        their readiness to forgo the pleasure of a mild flirtation with her
                        Ladyship. Hugh, feeling like a despised pariah, naturally turned to her in
                        his banishment. She was his friend, his one beacon of light in the dark sea
                        of unhappiness.
                    Others noticed it; but Hugh was blind to the scowl which never left the face
                        of Lord Huntingford in these days. The old nobleman knew full well that his
                        wife loathed and detested himjust as the whole ship knew it; his pride
                        rankled and writhed with the fear that she was finding more than friendship
                        to enjoy in her daily intercourse with the good-looking  Mr. Ridge. Gradually it became noticeable that he was watching
                        her every act with spiteful eyes, and more than one observer winked softly
                        at his neighbor, and shook his head with a meaning unmistakable.
                    The clash came one night in the Red Sea, just before the ship reached Aden.
                        Hugh, reviling himself and the whole world, had been compelled to stand by
                        and see Lieutenant Gilmore, a dashing Irishman, drag the unwilling Miss
                        Ridge off for a waltz. Her protestations had been of no avail; Gilmore was
                        abominable enough to say that she had no right to stow herself away with a
                        stupid old brother when there were so many "real nice chaps on
                        board." And this in Hugh's presence, too! And he could not
                        resent it! Alone and miserable the pariah sent his unspoken, bitter
                        lamentation to the stars as he stood in savage loneliness far aft, listening
                        to the strains of waltz music.
                    "'Pon my soul! Of all the assinine idiots, bar none, the
                        enlightened inspirer of this glorious voyage certainly ranks supreme! And I
                        didn't have brains enough to foresee that this would surely happen!
                        Brains? Faugh! Chump!"
                    Hugh might have apostrophized himself in this fashion until dawn had not a
                        harsh, rasping voice from out of the semi-darkness broken in on his doleful
                        revery.
                    "Pardon me, sir, do you play cribbage?"
                    Hugh turned half about and faced the speaker. He could hardly believe his
                        ears, his eyes. Was it possible that the haughty Lord Huntingford had fixed
                        upon  him as the next lamb to be fleeced? Ugly
                        stories concerning the government emissary's continuous winnings,
                        disastrous losses of the young subalterns inveigled into gambling through
                        fear of his official displeasure, were not unknown to Hugh. A civil
                        declination was on his lips; but keenly searching the shrivelled face
                        leering into his own, Hugh saw written there something that compelled
                        consideration, challenged a refusal. Promptly and in affirmative speech he
                        reversed his intention.
                    Slowly the left hand of Lord Huntingford produced from behind his back an
                        exquisitely carved ebony cribbage-board; and assuming the position of host,
                        indicated with exaggerated courtesy and a wave of his free hand the way to
                        the smoking-room.
                    Hugh, following him along the deck, was hastily reviewing the voyage; and
                        failing to recall any previous occasion wherein the nobleman had addressed
                        him, his sense of perplexity increased. Was there some hidden purpose, some
                        crafty machination lurking behind the elaborated manner with which the
                        invitation was delivered? On the other hand, perhaps, his imagination was
                        playing him a trick, and this selection of an adversary was merely
                        accidental.
                    And yet, had he but known, it was his own absorbing jealousy of Veath that
                        precluded the recognition of a like sentiment directed against him, even
                        surpassing in intensity its owner's lust for gain at play.
                    The smoking-room was empty, which, to the younger  man, appeared as rather extraordinary, and served to augment
                        his supposition that such a condition was presupposed. This, in turn, was
                        dimissed, for he remembered that the usual occupants were either dancing or
                        looking on.
                    Taking the initiative, as if such a course was incumbent, Lord Hutingford
                        placed his cribbage-board on a table and drew up chairs for both; with equal
                        politeness the proffered seat was accepted, Hugh registering inwardly a
                        determination to force high stakes, and, if possible, recoup the losses of
                        the young officers. Not for an instant did he doubt his ability to detect
                        the slightest irregularities in the count of his discredited opponent.
                    "Sovereign a point?"
                    "Done! Five, if you like!"
                    This answer from the young American caused an avaricious glint to leap into
                        the other's eyes. Plainly, two master passions fought for
                        supremacy: an inordinate greed for money and a choleric determination to
                        prohibit any further attentions to his wife. The struggle was brief, for the
                        vehemence of his enmity, triumphant, the hope of immediate emolument was
                        sacrificed, and the rooking of the young man postponed to some future
                        occasion. Then, subtly concealing his purpose, he nodded an ambiguous
                        acceptance.
                    Cards were ordered. A steward fetched them and awaited further commands.
                    Lord Huntingford strangely distrait, it seemed to Hugh, considering the
                        amount at stake, shuffled the  pack and
                        offered them for the eut. This conventional operation performed and his
                        Lordship successful, he dealt the hands, at the same time giving the steward
                        a sharp order to leave. The man's reception of his dismissal was so
                        insolent that it attracted Hugh's attention. Looking up, to his
                        surprise, he recognized his room steward.
                    "With whom have I the pleasure of playing?" came suddenly
                        from Lord Huntingford.
                    "Ridgeway, Hugh"
                    Quick as the thought in the mind preceding it, inevitably connected, the name
                        escaped unwittingly from his lips; for with the discovery of the
                        steward's identity there flashed like a bolt from the blue an
                        appalling recollection ! Exposed to view on the table in his stateroom were
                        valuable documents addressed to him by his banker, which he had forgotten to
                        replace in his dispatch-box!
                    "Eh? What's that? What name?" The interrogation,
                        icily formal, told nothing; but upon its answer hinged limitless
                        consequences.
                    Hugh was in a dilemma. Should he correct himself, or rely on the slip passing
                        unobserved? The peculiar expression on the steward's face returned
                        to him; and he wondered if the knowledge of his adopting an incognito had
                        been elicited from the garrulous servant, and the Englishman about to take
                        advantage of it? Reddening with anger as much against himself as against the
                        cynical old aristocrat, who was cornering him cavalierly, he decided to
                        brave exposure :
                    
                    "Ridge! H. B. Ridge is my name, Lord Huntingford!"
                    There was a reckless disregard of possibilities in the eyes that fastened
                        themselves on the face of the nobleman for a clue, some enlightenment as to
                        the impression produced; but all in vain. The shrewd, small eyes answered
                        the scrutiny impassively, and without as much as the flicker of an eyelid.
                        Taking one of the little ivory pegs, he stuck it in the starting hole at the
                        end of the cribbage-board. Unconsciously, while waiting for the mental move
                        which would determine his future address, Hugh following the
                        other's lead, picked up one and pegged. Then to his infinite relief
                        Lord Huntingford apparently allowed the correction, accepted the alias.
                    "Ridge!" he pronounced with malicious uncertainty.
                    "Ridge! I am acquainted with the English Ridges;" and the
                        sneer in the voice increased. "Do I understand you to pretend that
                        you are one of that distinguished family?"
                    Hugh clenched his lips and his blood boiled at the treatment.
                    "I am an American, Lord Huntingford," spoken easily, his
                        pride showing only by a perceptible lift of the head; "and my
                        ancestors were not Tories in the Revolution. Relationship, if any, would
                        beerdistant. I claim none."
                    "A trifle strained," admitted his Lordship, laughing
                        disagreeably.
                    At that moment the band could be heard in the distance  playing the strains of a waltz; also the voices of the couples
                        who were promenading and passing the open door. To Hugh's
                        amazement, Lord Huntingford, obviously heedless of his peculiar action,
                        recommenced shuffling the stack of cards, though the dealt hands remained
                        untouched on the table. Instinctively, Hugh was convinced that no play was
                        intended. There was something on the mind of the wily old diplomat far more
                        momentous than a mere game of cards; yet no chance had been given to him to
                        penetrate into the other's motives.
                    It was not long forthcoming.
                    Suddenly, clear as a bell, Hugh distinguished the laughter of Lady
                        Huntingford, and involuntarily he smiled. This seemed to enrage his
                        Lordship. Hatred and menace shone from his eyes as he glanced at the man
                        opposite him. With an oath he rose, walked to the door and closed it. Then
                        ruthlessly laying aside the last vestige of his assumed courtliness, he
                        picked up his stick from the table, leaned far over, shook it in
                        Hugh's face, and became an irascible, shouting old man.
                    "Look here, young manRidgeRidgewayor whatever your blasted namedo
                        you think I'll allow you to carry on an affair with my wifemy wife,
                        sir?" he vociferated. "Henceforth, I forbid you to speak
                        to her! Do you hear me?"
                    It was debatable whether Hugh was more astonished at the mention of Lady
                        Huntingford's name in connection with his own, or at the stick in
                        dangerously  close proximity to his
                        countenance. It was some time before he could find words; but his face from
                        red went white.
                    "And if I decline?"
                    There was that in the low tone that should have warned the aggressor from
                        further insult; but forgetting that the swaggering domination he had been
                        accustomed to exercising over his own countrymen, officially his inferiors,
                        would not for a moment be tolerated by one of another nationality, he again
                        broke out:
                    "You bounder! Yankee upstart! I'll thrash you, and then
                        have the captain put you on shore at the first portyou infernal
                        impostor!"
                    In an instant Hugh was over the table. He tore the stick from Lord
                        Huntingford's hand and clutched his throat, forcing him down on the
                        seat cushions. With the exception of the younger man's hard
                        breathing and some gasps from the other, the struggle was noiseless. Not
                        until Lord Huntingford was growing black in the face did Hugh come to his
                        senses. Then releasing one hand from the throat, he pinned him with the
                        other and a knee.
                    "You old scoundrel !" Hugh began, jerking out the scathing
                        words; "if it were not for your old age and your wife I'd
                        drag you on deck and make you apologize on your knees before them all.
                        I'll spare you that degradation; but if I ever hear of you
                        mentioning the name RidegwayI've my own reasons for concealing it,
                        and they don't concern youI'll  make some charges in regard to your card playing that will bar
                        you from every club in the world, and, unlike your poor dupes, I am in a
                        position to substantiate them without fear of consequences."
                    Lord Huntingford grudgingly mumbled a throttled promise, and Hugh allowed him
                        to regain his feet. At that instant Veath, with Grace and Lady Huntingford,
                        standing behind him, opened the door of the smoking-room.
                    "Here, Veath!" called out Hugh to the astonished Indianian.
                        "I want you to bear witness that Lord Huntingford has promised to
                        keep absolutely quiet about a little altercation of ours, and"
                    The quick gesture of caution from Veath came too late. Lady Huntingford with
                        astonished eyes was gazing into the room at them. Hugh promptly went over to
                        her.
                    "You must pardon me, Lady Huntingford; I am sorry to cause you any
                        pain or annoyance. In a dispute over the cards with your husband I forgot
                        myself for a moment. Pray forgive me."
                    Ridgeway quietly strode away with Grace and Veath. Lady Huntingford directed
                        a look of unutterable contempt at her husband, turned on her heel and left
                        him to slink away as quickly as possible, like a cur that has felt the
                        whip.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    DISCOVERED
                    LORD HUNTINGFORD could not forgive the
                        man who had put his aristocratic nose out of joint in such an effective
                        manner. He was, however, as polite as nature would permit him to be to Miss
                        Ridge and Mr. Veath. As for Hugh, that young gentleman thought it the wiser
                        plan, when unavoidably relating a mild description of last night's
                        encounter, to abstain from acquainting Grace with Lord
                        Huntingford's discovery of his namewhether accidental or otherwise.
                        Quite rightly he surmised that it would unnecessarily distress her, and he
                        preferred not to cross the bridge until he came to it.
                    It was the evening following the conflict. As night approached, the sun fell
                        behind the shores of the Red Sea, the stars twinkled out through the
                        blackness above, and yet they had not caught a glimpse of her Ladyship. At
                        dinner, he and Grace had agreed that she had either renounced them entirely,
                        or had been compelled to avoid him in particular. Veath was less concerned.
                        He was thinking of another woman.
                    Hugh and Grace again stole away for a few moments of seclusion on deck. They
                        found chairs and sat down, neither very talkative.
                    
                    "Oh, Hugh, just think where we are," she murmured at last.
                        "Thousands of miles from home, and no one the wiser save ourselves.
                        Chicago is on the other side of the world."
                    "Are you sorry you came, dear?"
                    "I am glad. But isn't it awful to consider how far we are
                        from everybody we know? We might just as well be dead, Hugh." She
                        was very solemn and wide-eyed.
                    "I am afraid you are losing heart," he said
                        disconsolately.
                    "Why, Hugh RidgewayRidge, I mean,how can I afford to lose heart now?
                        Don't ever say that to me again."
                    "Yes; we are a long way from home, dear," mused he after a
                        while.
                    "How far are we from Manila?" she asked suddenly.
                    "A million miles, judging by the way time goes. We'll be
                        there in twenty days, the captain says."
                    "What do you suppose Mr. Veath will say when he hears of our
                        marriage?" This question was propounded after a longer interval of
                        silence than usual.
                    "Why should we care what Mr. Veath says? If he doesn't
                        approve, let him go to" but Hugh checked his fiery speech as
                        abruptly as he began it.
                    "He will be awfully shocked to learn how we have deceived
                        him," she went on, as if he had not spoken.
                    "Well, do you care?" demanded Hugh.
                    "Yes, I care," she cried. "I shall be very sorry
                        if  he loses the good opinion he may have
                        formed. He is the kind of a man who would not understand such an affair as
                        this."
                    "But, then, we are not obliged to tell him. We can get married and
                        leave Manila at once without ever seeing him again. After that we will be
                        Mr. and Mrs. Ridgeway, and he could never find the people known as Hugh
                        Ridge and sister."
                    "That would be a shameless way to treat him. He has been so true, so
                        good, Hugh," she cried reproachfully. For quite a while their eyes
                        lingered upon the dark water without seeing it, their thoughts centred upon
                        the fast approaching end of their relationship with Henry Veath.
                    "I wish he could be told," murmured she, her voice far
                        away.
                    "I couldn't do it to save my soul. What would he
                        say?" There was an awed anxiety in his voice.
                    "I don't care what other people say, but I do care what he
                        says. He seems so honest, so far above tricks of this kind."
                    "What's one man's opinion, anyhow, especially when
                        he's to be buried in Manila for years?"
                    "Oh, Hugh! How lonely he will be in that strange place. And how
                        dreadful it will be in us to sneak away from him like cowards, just as if we
                        cared nothing for him at all. He doesn't deserve that, does
                        he?"
                    "No, he doesn't, that's a fact. We can't
                        treat him like a dog."
                    
                    "I wish he could be told," sighed she pensively.
                    "When?"
                    "You might try to tell him at any time," she said, a
                        perceptible strain in her voice.
                    "I'll tell you what I'll do," said he,
                        taking her hand in his. "I will tell him the day before we reach
                        Manila."
                    "I'm afraid it will be too late," she cried, all
                        a-flutter.
                    "Too late? Why?"
                    "I mean," she went on confusedly, "he might think
                        we had waited too long." She was thinking of Veath's
                        wistful eyes.
                    "Hello! Here you are," cried a strong voice, and Veath
                        loomed up through the shadows. Hugh released her hand and dropped back in
                        the chair from which he had half risen to kiss her. "You hide away
                        like a pair of silly lovers. There's nothing prosaic about this
                        brother and sister. Do you know, I have often marvelled over one thing in
                        connection with you. You don't look any more like brother and
                        sister than the sea looks like dry land."
                    The pair caught breath sharply and Hugh almost snorted aloud. Grace could do
                        nothing but look up to where she saw the red fluctuating glow of a cigar tip
                        in the darkness. It made her think of a little moon which could breathe like
                        herself.
                    "It all goes to show how deceptive appearances can be,"
                        went on Veath easily. "Don't you want to walk, Miss Ridge?
                        I'm sure you need exercise."
                    
                    "I promised Hugh I would drive away his blues, Mr. Veath. Thank you,
                        but I believe I'll sit here for a while and then go
                        below," she said, a trifle disconnectedly.
                    "We'll take Hugh along," said Veath
                        obligingly.
                    "Come along, both of you."
                    "Excuse me, Henry, but I don't feel like walking,"
                        said Hugh, a tinge of sullenness in his manner.
                    "Lazy, eh? Well, I'll bring Miss Ridge back in half an
                        hour. You wouldn't have me wander about this dismal old boat alone,
                        would you? Smoke a cigar, Hugh, and I'll take care of your sister
                        while you count the stars." He offered Hugh a cigar.
                    Hugh rose suddenly and started away.
                    "Hugh!" called she, "come and walk with
                        us." He could distinguish the loving entreaty, the trouble in her
                        tones, but he was unreasonable.
                    "Never mind me," he sang out with an assumption of
                        cheerfulness. Grace flushed hotly, her heart swelling with injured pride.
                        Without another word she rose and walked away with Veath. Indignation burned
                        within her soul until she went to sleep, hours afterward.
                    Ridgeway stamped the full length of the promenade before he came to an
                        understanding with himself. On reaching that understanding, he whirled and
                        walked back to where he had left them, expecting to find Veath occupying the
                        chair he had vacated. Of course they were not to be found, so he threw
                        himself on one  of the chairs, more miserable
                        than he had been since they started on their voyage. The lady in the chair
                        to his left stirred nervously and then a soft laugh came from her lips.
                    "Are you sleepy, Mr. Ridge?" she asked. Hugh turned quickly
                        and looked into the face of Lady Huntingford.
                    "Not at all," he replied. "But how strange it
                        seems that you should always appear like the fairy queen when I am most in
                        need of a bracer. Oh, I beg your pardon," he went on, rising in
                        some perturbation. "I forgot that there is aa barrier between us.
                        War has been declared, I fear."
                    "I am ready to make friendly overtures," she said gaily.
                        "Isn't there some such thing as a treaty which requires a
                        strong power to protect its weaker ally in time of stress?"
                    "You mean that we may still be friends in spite of all that happened
                        last night?" he cried. She nodded her head and smiled, and he shook
                        her hand as only an impulsive American would.
                    "But Lord Huntingford? What will he say?" he asked.
                    "His Lordship's authority can be carried to a certain limit
                        and no farther," she said, and her eyes flashed.
                    "He knows when to curse and abuse; but he also knows when that
                        attitude might operate against him. He is not in a position to push me to
                        the wall."
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "I mean he knows enough not to drive me to the  point where I would turn and fight." Hugh never had
                        seen her so entrancing as she was in that dim light, her face the picture of
                        proud defiance.
                    "I wonder not a little that you have not asked for a divorce long
                        before this."
                    "You are not a woman or you would not ask that."
                    "Lots of women ask for divorces."
                    "It should be the last resort with any woman. But let us talk of
                        something else. Where is your sister? I have not seen her
                        to-day."
                    This question was particularly ill-timed, for it restored the forgotten
                        bitterness to the position from which it had been temporarily driven by the
                        interruption.
                    "I don't know," he answered.
                    "I thought I heard her talking to you here a few moments agoin fact,
                        I saw you."
                    "Where were you?"
                    "I passed within a dozen feet of you. Neither of you saw me, I am
                        sure. You would not have eut me intentionally, would you?"
                    "I should say not. You walked past here?"
                    "Yes, you were tying her shoe-string."
                    "What!" exclaimed he, starting to his feet, "tying
                        Grace's shoe-string?" The first thought that rushed to his
                        mind was that Veath had knelt to plead his love to Grace Vernon.
                    "Lady Huntingford, let us walk," he exclaimed. It was a
                        fierce, impatient command instead of a polite 
                        invitation. The pretty young woman calmly lay back in her chair and laughed.
                        "If you won't come, then please excuse me. I must
                        go."
                    "Why are you so eager to walk, Mr. Ridgeway?" she
                        asked.
                    "Because I wantwhat was that you called me?" he gasped, his
                        heart almost turning upside down.
                    "Ridgeway. That's your name, isn't
                        it?"
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "Oh, a great many things," she said with a serious
                        face.
                    Hugh was visibly annoyed. There was to be more trouble from the nobleman;
                        evidently he did not intend to keep his promise.
                    "In the first place," she continued, "I must
                        acknowledge that I forced from my husband an account of last
                        night's affair; he also told me your name. But, believe me, it will
                        go no further. I cannot thank you enough, Mr. Ridgeway," the color
                        stealing into her cheeks.
                    Ridgeway bowed.
                    "In the next place," she went on playfully, "you
                        are very jealous of Mr. Veath. Tut, tut, yes you are," with a
                        gesture of protest. "He thinks Miss Ridge is your sister, and she
                        is not your sister. And lastly, nobody on board knows these facts but the
                        very bright woman who is talking to you at this moment."
                    "But you are mistaken, madam," with a last attempt at
                        assumption of dignity.
                    "Would I say this to you if I were not positive?  You think you are very clever; I'll
                        admit that you are. Your secrets came to me through an accident. Do not
                        think that I have pried into your affairs. They really forced themselves
                        upon me."
                    "Tell me what you know, for Heaven's sake," cried
                        the dismayed Ridgeway.
                    "I was in your sister's room earlier in the day. Her trunk
                        was open and I saw a portfolio with Vernon in silver lettering; and I was
                        more mystified than ever when I observed that the initials on her trunk were
                        `G. V.' All day yesterday I tried to solve the problem, taking into
                        consideration the utter absence of family resemblance between you, and I was
                        almost sick with curiosity. To-day I was convinced that her name is not
                        Ridge. She inadvertently signed her name to the purser's slip in my
                        presence, and she did not sign the yours. She scratched it out quickly and
                        asked him to make out another one. Now, what is this mystery?" She
                        bent her gaze upon his face and he could not meet it.
                    "Do you want to know the reason why I did not see you
                        yesterday?" she continued.
                    "Yes," he murmured, mopping his brow.
                    "Because I was so distressed that I feared I could not face either
                        of you, knowing what I do."
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "I know you are running away." Not a word was spoken for a
                        full minute. He could scarcely breathe.
                    "You do not deny it?" she questioned gently.
                        "Please do not fear me."
                    
                    "I do not fear you," he half whispered, sinking his chin in
                        his hands. Another long silence.
                    "There are some circumstances and conditions under which a woman
                        should not be condemned for running away," she said in a strained,
                        faraway voice. "Has has she children?"
                    "Good Heaven!" cried Hugh, leaping to his feet,
                        horror-struck.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    THE HARLEQUIN'S ERRAND
                    LADY HUNTINGFORD, alarmed by his
                        manner, arose and steadied herself against the deck-house. His exclamation
                        rang in her ears, filling them with its horror. At length he roughly grasped
                        her arm, thrusting his face close to hers, fairly grated out the words:
                    "You think she is a wife?"
                    "I feared so."
                    "She is not! Do you hear me? She is not!" he cried so
                        fiercely that there was no room for doubt. "She is the purest,
                        dearest girl in the world, and she has done all this for me. For
                        God's sake, do not expose us." He dropped back in the
                        chair. "It's not for my sake that I ask it, but for
                        hers," he went on quickly.
                    "I'm sure I have wronged her and I have wronged you. Will
                        you believe me?"
                    He did not answer at once. His turbulent brain was endeavoring to find words
                        with which to convince her of the innocence of the escapade. Looking up into
                        her eyes, he was struck by their tender staunchness. Like a flash came to
                        him the decision to tell her the true story, from beginning to end.
                    "Lady Huntingford, I will tell you everything there  is to tell. It is not a long tale, and you
                        may say it is a very foolish one. I am sure, however, that it will interest
                        you."
                    "You shall not tell me a word if you do so in order to appease my
                        curiosity," she began earnestly.
                    "I think it is best that you should know," he interrupted.
                        "One favor first. You will earn my eternal gratitude if you do not
                        allow Grace to feel that you have discovered our secret."
                    "You have my promise. I have kept many secrets, Mr. Ridge."
                        He drew his chair quite close to hers. Then he told her the full story of
                        the adventure, from first to last. She scarcely breathed, so deeply was her
                        interest centred in this little history of an impulse. He spoke hurriedly,
                        excitedly. Not once did she take her eyes from his earnest face, almost
                        indistinguishable in the darkness; nor could he remove his from hers.
                    "And here we are approaching Aden, your Ladyship," he
                        concluded. Her big dark eyes had held him enthralled, inspiring him to paint
                        in glorious colors every detail of the remarkable journey. As he drew to a
                        close, her hand fell involuntarily on his knee. A tremor dashed through his
                        veins, and his heart throbbed fiercely.
                    "How glorious it must be to love like that," she almost
                        whispered. There was a catch in her voice, as she uttered that soft, dreamy
                        sentence, almost a sigh. She turned her face away suddenly and then arose,
                        crying in tones so low and despairing that he could hardly believe they came
                        from the usually merry lips:
                    
                    "Oh, how I envy her this life and love! How wonderful it all
                        is!"
                    "It has its drawbacks," he lamented. "As a brother
                        I am a nonentity, Lady Huntingford; it's not altogether relishable,
                        you know. It's a sort of pantomime, for me, by Jove. I'm
                        the fool, and this seems to be the fool's errand."
                    "If you will play a part in the pantomime, Mr. Ridge, let an
                        Englishwoman suggest that you be the harlequin. How I loved the harlequin in
                        the Drury Lane pantomimes at Christmas time! He was always the ideal lover
                        to me, for there was no trick, no prank this bespangled hero could not play
                        to success. He always went incognito, for he wore his narrow mask of black.
                        He performed the most marvellous things for his Columbine,and was she not a
                        worthy sweetheart? No, no, Mr. Ridgenot the fool, I pray. Please be the
                        harlequin," she cried in rare good humor.
                    "As you like it," he said, reflecting her spirits.
                        "I am the harlequin and this is, perforce, the harlequin's
                        errand." They were silent for a long time, then he said
                        soberly:
                    "It was such a foolish thing to do, after all." She looked
                        up at him for a moment, the bitterness fading from her hungry eyes, a smile
                        struggling feebly into power. Then came the radiance of enthusiasm.
                    "Foolish!" she exclaimed, with eyes sparkling and breast
                        heaving. "It was magnificent! What a brave girl she is! Oh, how
                        clever you both are and how much you will enjoy the memory of this wonderful
                             trip. It will always be fresh and novel
                        to youyou will never forget one moment of its raptures. How I wish I could
                        have done something like this. If I dared, I would kiss that brave, lucky
                        girl a thousand times."
                    "But you must not let her suspect," cautioned he.
                    "It would ruin everything for her if she even dreamed that you had
                        told me, and I would not mar her happiness for the world. Really, Mr. Ridge,
                        I am so excited over your exploit that I can scarcely contain myself. It
                        seems so improbable, so immense, yet so simple that I can hardly understand
                        it at all. Why is it other people have not found this way to revoutionize
                        life? Running around the world to get married without the faintest excuse
                        save an impulsea whim. How good, how glorious! It is better than a
                        novel!"
                    "I hope it is better than some novels."
                    "It is better than any, because it is true."
                    "I am afraid you are trying to lionize me," he jested.
                    "You have faced a British lion," she said slowly.
                    "My only regret is that he is old and clawless."
                    "We are retracing our steps over dangerous ground," she
                        said with a catch in her breath.
                    "You would have me to believe that I am a brave man, so I am
                        determined to court the danger of your displeasure. How did you happen to
                        marry this old and clawless lion?"
                    She did not exhibit the faintest sign of surprise or  discomfiture, certainly not of anger. Instead, she looked
                        frankly into his eyes and answered: "That is what I thought you
                        would ask me. I shall not refuse to answer. I married because I wanted to do
                        so."
                    "What!" exclaimed he incredulously. "I had
                        hopederI mean, feared that you had beenahsort of forced into it, you
                        know."
                    "Since my marriage I have discovered, however, that there is no fool
                        like the ambitious fool," she went on as if he had not spoken.
                        "Do you understand what I mean?"
                    "That you married for position?"
                    "That I married simply to become Lady Hunting-ford."
                    "And you did not love him at all?" There was something like
                        disgust, horror in Hugh's voice.
                    "Love him?" she exclaimed scornfully, and he knew as much
                        as if she had spoken volumes. Then her face became rigid and cold. For the
                        first time he saw the hard light of self-mastery in her eyes. "I
                        made my choice; I shall abide by it to the end as steadfastfully as if I
                        were the real rock which you may think me to be. There is nothing for me to
                        tellnothing more that I will tell to you. Are you not sorry that you know
                        such a woman as I? Have you not been picking me to pieces and casting me
                        with your opinions to the four winds?"
                    "I am truly sorry for you," was all that he could say.
                    
                    "You mean that you despise me," she cried bitterly.
                        "Men usually think that of such women as I. They do not give us a
                        hearing with the heart, only with the cruel, calculating brain. Think of it,
                        Mr. Ridge, I have never known what it means to love. I have been loved; but
                        in all my life there has been no awakening of a passion like that which
                        sends Grace Vernon around the world to give herself to you. I know that love
                        exists for other people. I have seen ithave almost felt it in them when they
                        are near me. And yet it is all so impossible to me."
                    "You are youngvery young," he said. "Love may come
                        to yousome day."
                    "It wil be envynot love, I fear. I threw away every hope for love
                        two years agowhen I was transformed from the ambitious Miss Beresford to
                        Lady Huntingford, now thoroughly satiated. It was a bad bargain and it has
                        wounded more hearts than one. I am not sorry to have told you this. It gives
                        relief toto something I cannot define. You despise me, I am
                        sure"
                    "No, no! How can you say that? You are paying the penalty for yourof
                        your"
                    "Say it! Crime."
                    "For your mistake, Lady Huntingford. We all make mistakes. Some of
                        us pay for them more bitterly than others, and none of us is a judge of
                        human nature except from his own point of view. I am afraid you
                        don't feel the true sympathy I mean to convey. Words are faulty
                        with me to-night. It shall be my  pleasure to
                        forget what you have confessed to me. It is as if I never had
                        heard."
                    "Some men would presume greatly upon what I have told to you. You
                        are too good, I know, to be anything but a true friend," she
                        said.
                    "I think I understand you," he said, a flush rising to his
                        temples. After all, she was a divine creature. "You shall always
                        find me the true friend you think I am."
                    "Thank you." They were silent for a long time, gazing out
                        over the sombre plain of water in melancholy review of their own emotions.
                        At last she murmured softly, wistfully, "I feel like an outcast. My
                        life seems destined to know none of the joys that other women have in their
                        power to love and to be loved." The flush again crept into his
                        cheek.
                    "You have not met the right man, Lady Hunting-ford," he
                        said.
                    "Perhaps that is true," she agreed, smiling faintly.
                    "The world is large and there is but one man in it to whom you can
                        give your heart," he said.
                    "Why should any man desire possession of a worthless bit of
                        ice?" she asked, her eyes sparkling again.
                    "The satisfaction of seeing it melt," he responded. She
                        thought long over this reply.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    THE CONFESSION OF VEATH
                    HUGH, have you observed anything strange in Mr. Veath
                        lately?"
                    The interrogation came suddenly from Grace, the next morning, on deck. They
                        had been discussing the plans for a certain day in May, and all the time
                        there was evidence of trouble in her eyes. At last she had broached a
                        subject that had been on her mind for days.
                    "Can't say that I have." The answer was somewhat
                        brusque.
                    "I am convinced of one thing," she said hurriedly, coming
                        direct to the point. "He is in love with me."
                    "The scoundrel!" gasped Hugh, stopping short and turning
                        very white. "How dare he do such"
                    "Now, don't be absurd, dear. I can't see what he
                        finds in me to love, but he has a perfect rigt to the emotion, you know. He
                        doesn't know, dear."
                    "Where is he? I'll take the emotion out of him in short
                        order. Ah, ha! Don't look frightened! I understand. You love him. I
                        see it all. It's as"
                    "Stop! You have no right to say that," she exclaimed, her
                        eyes flashing dangerously. His heart smote him at once and he sued humbly
                        for pardon.  He listened to her views
                        concering the hapless Indianian, and it was not long before he was heart and
                        head in sympathy with Veath.
                    "Poor fellow! When I told him last night that I was to be married
                        within a year he actually trembled from head to foot. I never was so
                        miserable over a thing in my life," she said dismally.
                        "Really, Hugh, I can't bear to think of him finding out
                        how we have played with him."
                    "Shall I tell him all about it?" asked he in troubled
                        tones.
                    "Then I should not be able to look him in the face. Dear me,
                        elopements have their drawbacks, haven't they?"
                    Other passengers joined them, Veath and Lady Huntingford among them. In the
                        group were Captain Shadburn, Mr. and Mrs. Evarts, Mr. Higswoth and his
                        daughter Rosella, Lieutenant Hamiltona dashing young fellow who was an old
                        and particularly good friend of Lady Huntingford. Hugh noted, with strange
                        satisfaction, that Hamilton seemed unusually devoted to Miss Higsworth. In a
                        most casual manner he took his stand at the rail beside her Ladyship, who
                        had coaxed Captain Shadburn to tell them his story of the great typhoon.
                    Presently, a chance came to address her.
                    "Grace tells me that your name is an odd one, for a girlwoman, I
                        meanTennyson. Were you named for the poet?"
                    "Yes. My father knew him well. Odd, isn't it?
                    
                    My friends call me Lady Tennys. By the way, you have not told Grace what I
                        told you last night on deck, have you?" she asked.
                    "I should say not. Does she suspect that you know her secret and
                        mine?" he asked in return.
                    "She does not dream that I know. Ah, I believe I am beginning to
                        learn what love is. I worship your sweetheart, Hugh Ridgeway."
                    "If you could love as she loves me, Lady Huntingford, you might know
                        what love really is."
                    "What a strange thing it must be that you and she can know it and I
                        cannot," she mused, looking wistfully at the land afar off.
                    At Aden everybody went ashore while the ship coaled at Steamer Point, on the
                        western side of the rock, three miles from the town proper. Multitudes of
                        Jewish ostrich-feather merchants and Somali boys gave the travellers
                        amusement at the landing and in the coast part of the town. The Americans
                        began to breathe what Hugh called a genuinely oriental atmosphere.
                    They were far from Aden when night came down and with it the most gorgeous
                        sunset imaginable. Everybody was on deck. The sky was aflame, the waters
                        blazed and all the world seemed about to be swept up in the wondrous
                        conflagration. Late in the afternoon a bank of clouds had grown up from the
                        western line, and as the sun dropped behind them they glowed with the
                        intensity of fiercely fanned coals of huge dimensions. At last the fiery
                        hues faded away, the giant holocaust of the skies drew to an end, and  the soft afterglow spread across the dome,
                        covering it with a tranquil beauty more sublime than words can paint.
                    Grace looked eagerly among the impressed spectators for Henry Veath. Somehow
                        she longed for him to see all this beauty that had given her so much
                        pleasure. He was not there and she was conscious of a guilty depression. She
                        was sitting with Hugh and Lady Huntingford when, long afterward, Veath
                        approached.
                    "I'd like a word with you, Hugh," he said after
                        the greetings, "when the ladies have gone below."
                    "It is getting late and I am really very tired," said
                        Grace. It was quite dark, or they could have seen that her face was pale and
                        full of concern. She knew instinctively what it was that Veath wanted to say
                        to Hugh. Then she did something she had never done before in the presence of
                        another. She walked quickly to Hugh's side, bent over and kissed
                        his lips, almost as he gasped in astonishment.
                    "Good-night, dear," she said, quite audibly, and was gone
                        with Lady Huntingford. The astounded lover was some time in recovering from
                        the surprise inspired by her unexpected act. It was the first time she had
                        ever been sisterly in that fashion before the eyes of others.
                    "I hope I have said nothing to offend them," said Veath
                        miserably. "Was I too abrupt?"
                    "Not in the least. They've seen enough for one night
                        anyhow, and I guess they were only waiting 
                        for an excuse to go below," replied Hugh. To himself he said,
                        "I wonder what the dickens Grace did that for? And why was Lady
                        Huntingford so willing to leave?"
                    Veath sat nervously wriggling his thumbs, plainly ill at ease. His jaw was
                        set, however, and there was a look in his eyes which signified a
                        determination to brave it out.
                    "You know me pretty well by this time, Hugh," he said. Hugh
                        awoke from his abstraction and displayed immediate interest. "You
                        know that I am straight-forward and honest, if nothing else. There is also
                        in my make-up a pride which you may never have observed or suspected, and it
                        is of this that I want to speak before attempting to say something which
                        will depend altogether upon the way you receive the
                        introduction."
                    "Go ahead, Henry. You're serious to-night, and I can see
                        that something heavy is upon your mind."
                    "It is a very serious matter, I can assure you. Well, as you perhaps
                        know from my remarks or allusions on previous occasions, I am a poor devil.
                        I have nothing on earth but the salary I can earn, and you can guess what
                        that will amount to in Manila. My father educated me as best he could, and I
                        worked my way through college after he had given me to understand that he
                        was unable to send me there himself. When I was graduated, I accepted a
                        position with a big firm in its engineering service. Within a year I was
                        notified  that I could have a five
                        months' lay-off, as they call it. At the end of that period, if
                        matters improved, I was to have my place back. Out of my wages I saved a
                        couple of hundred dollars, but it dwindled as I drifted through weeks of
                        idleness. There was nothing for me to do, try as I would to find a place. It
                        was a hard pill to swallow, after four years of the kind of work I had done
                        in college, but I had to throw every plan to the winds and go to the
                        Philippines. My uncle, who is rich, sent me money enough to prepare for the
                        voyage, and here I am, sneaking off to the jungles, disgusted, discouraged
                        and disappointed. To-night I sit before you with less than one hundred
                        dollars as the sum total of my earthly possessions."
                    "By George, Veath, just let me know how much you need"
                        broke in Hugh warmly, but the other silenced him, smiling sadly.
                    "I'm greatly obliged to you, but I don't believe
                        it is money that I want nowat least, not borrowed money. When you told me
                        that your sister was to become a missionary, I inferred that you were not
                        burdened with wordly goods, and I felt at home with you bothmore so than I
                        should, I believe"
                    "Oh, the devil!"
                    "But a few days ago your sister told me that she is not to be a
                        missionary and that she is rich enough to make this trip to the Orient for
                        mere pleasureoh, well, you know better than I how rich you both
                        are." His voice was low and unsteady. "I don't
                             know why you should have told me that
                        sheshe was to be a missionary."
                    "It wasI did it for a little joke on her, honestly I did,"
                        mumbled Hugh.
                    "And it was a serious one for me. Before I knew of her real position
                        she seemed more approachable to me, more as if I could claim her friendship
                        on the grounds of mutual sympathy. I was deceived into believeing our lots
                        not vastly unequal, and I have suffered more than I can tell you by the
                        disparity which I now know exists."
                    "But what difference can it make whether we are rich or poor? We can
                        still be friends," said Hugh eagerly.
                    "It was when I believed your sister to be a missionary that I
                        learned to love her better than all else in this world. Now do you
                        understand?"
                    "Great Scott!" gasped his listener, starting from his
                        chair. Now he realised that she had not been mistaken in her fears.
                        "Does she know this?" he managed to ask.
                    "No, and I dare not tell herI cannot. I had to tell some one, and to
                        whom should I confess it if not to the brother of the woman I love? It is no
                        disgrace, no dishonor to her. You cannot blame me for being honest with you.
                        Some day after you have gone back to America you can tell her that I love
                        her and always will. She has intimated to me that she is to marry another
                        man, so what chance is there for a poor wretch like I? I don't see
                        how I have endured the  awakening from the
                        dreams I have had. I even went so far as to imagine a little home in Manila,
                        after I had won her from the mission field and after I had laid by the
                        savings of a year or two. I had planned to fairly starve myself that I might
                        save enought to make a home for her andand" but he could say no
                        more. Hugh heard the sob and turned sick at heart. To what a pass their
                        elopement had come!
                    Above all things, how could he comfort the unfortunate man? There was no word
                        of encouragement, no word of hope to be given. The deepest pity he had ever
                        felt went out to Henry Veath; the greatest remorse he had ever known stung
                        his soul. Should he tell Veath the truth? Could he do it?
                    "Do you see my position?" asked Veath steadily, after a
                        long silence. "I could never hope to provide for her as she has
                        been accustomed to living, and I have too much pride to allow my wife to
                        live other than the way in which I would have to live."
                    "She may not love you," said Hugh, suddenly hopeful.
                    "But I could win her love. I'm sure I could, Hugh. Even
                        though she is pledged to another man, I could love her so powerfully that a
                        new love would be inspired in her for me. You don't know how I love
                        her. Hugh, you are not angry with me for having told you this?"
                    "Angry? Great Heavens, no! I'm heartbroken over
                        it," cried Hugh. There were traces of tears in his eyes.
                    
                    "You know how hopeless it is for me," went on Veath,
                        "and I hope you will remember that I have been honest and plain
                        with you. Before we part in Manila I may tell her, but that is all. I
                        believe I should like to have her know that I love her. She can't
                        think badly of me for it, I'm sure."
                    Hugh did not answer. He arose and silently grasped the hand of the other, who
                        also had come to his feet.
                    "I would to God that I could call you brother," said
                        he.
                    "Don't say it! It is too wild an improbability,"
                        cried Veath.
                    "Yes; it is more than that: it is an impossibility."
                    "If in the end I should conclude to tell Miss Ridge of my feelings,
                        will you tell me now that I may do so with your permission?"
                    "But there is no hope," cried Hugh miserably.
                    "I do not ask for hope. I shall not ask her to love me or to be my
                        wife. I may want to tell her that I love her, that's all. You can
                        have no objection to that, Hugh."
                    "I have no objection," murmured Ridgeway, a chill striking
                        deep into his heart.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    ONE LOVE AGAINST ANOTHER
                    RIDGEWAY passed another sleepless night. Had not Veath
                        said he could win her love, even though it were pledged to another? The
                        thought gave birth to a fear that he was not perfectly sure of her love, and
                        that it might turn to Henry Veath, after all. In the early morning hours,
                        between snatches of sleep, he decided to ask Lady Huntingford's
                        advice, after explaining to her the dilemma in full. He would also tell
                        Grace of Veath's declaration, putting her on guard.
                    Breakfast time found the sea heavy and the ship rolling considerably, but at
                        least three people gave slight notice to the weather. Hugh was sober and
                        morose; Veath was preoccupied and unnatural; Grace was restless and uneasy.
                        Lady Huntingford, who came in while they were eating, observed this
                        condition almost immediately, and smiled knowingly, yet sadly. Later Hugh
                        Ridgeway drew her to a secluded corner and exploded his bomb. Her cool
                        little head readily devised a plan which met his approval, and he hurried
                        off to warn Grace before it was too late. Lady Huntingford advised him to
                        tell Veath nothing of the elopement, allowing him to believe as he had all
                        along, but suggested a radical change in their future  plans. It was her advice that they go on the Japan and be
                        married.
                    At first Grace demurred to this plan, which he necessarily proposed as his
                        own, holding that it would be absolutely cruel to desert Veath at the last
                        minute. Finally she agreed to the compromise and kissed him with tears in
                        her eyes.
                    Days passed and the strain grew more tense than ever. The Tempest Queen was nearing the Archipelago, after the stops at
                        Penang and Singapore. At Hong Kong the Manila-bound passengers were to be
                        transferred to one of the small China Sea steamers. The weather had been
                        rough and ugly for many days. Lady Huntingford had not left her stateroom in
                        two days. Grace was with her a greater portion of the time, ministering to
                        her wants gently and untiringly. Ridgeway and Veath, anxious and troubled,
                        wandered aimlessly about the ship, smoking cigar after cigar, praying for a
                        cessation of the ugly weather. Finally, all passengers were peremptorily
                        forbidden the deck. The skilled sailors were in constant danger of being
                        washed overboard. Captain Shadburn admitted that they were being driven from
                        their course by the fury of the typhoon. Secretly he feared that the Queen might rush upon a reef at night.
                    Dinner on the second violent evening was a sombre affair. Lady Huntingford,
                        pale, sweet and wan, made her appearance with Grace, occupying
                        Veath's seat, that gentleman moving to the next chair, its original
                        occupant being confined to his berth. Lord Huntingford,  austere and imperturbable, entered some time before his wife
                        and purposely ignored her when she came in.
                    As the party arose from the table, a heavy lurch of the boat threw Grace
                        headlong into Veath's arms. By a superhuman effort he managed to
                        keep his feet. He smiled down at her; but there was something so insistent
                        in the smile that it troubled her.
                    "It's an ill wind that blow no good," said Veath
                        softly.
                    "What blows well for one may blow ill for another," she
                        responded a little coldly, though she did not refuse the proffered arm; and
                        they staggered toward the doorway.
                    As they passed into the main saloon he suddenly asked her if she would let
                        him speak to her of a matter that long had been on his mind. She did not
                        look him in the face, but she knew it was white and determined. The time had
                        come when he was to tell her that he loved her. He begged for a
                        moment's time and gained her unspoken permission. They sank to a
                        couch near the stairway, Grace giving a last helpless, hopeless glance at
                        Hugh as he and his companion passed from the apartment.
                    "I can see by the manner in which you act that you know what I want
                        to say to you. It is also plain to me that you would rather not hear
                        me," he said, after a moment.
                    "Please do not say it," she entreated, and he saw the
                        little hope that he had been nourishing dashed away.
                    
                    "I did not dream until a few moments ago that you had discerned my
                        love for you, Miss Ridge, but I am not sorry that I have been so
                        transparent. How you have guessed my secret I cannot imagine. I tried to
                        keep it from you," he said, as if he had wounded her.
                        "Perhaps your brother told you."
                    She was on the point of telling him that Hugh was not her brother, but
                        something checked the impulse and she could only answer by shaking her
                        head.
                    "You told me that you expect to marry another man, but that has not
                        kept me from telling you that I love you, nor will it prevent me from trying
                        to win your love. Pride, if nothing else, has kept my lips sealed, for what
                        right have I to ask any woman to share my lot? In sheer humiliation I must
                        tell you that my life looks like a failure to me. I have a hard struggle
                        ahead of me. You may say that I am young and strong, but I cannot, for my
                        soul, see anything bright ahead." His voice trembled and she
                        glanced up at his face. He was looking at the diamond that sparkled on her
                        left hand.
                    "You have no right to say that life is a failure; you have no right
                        to lie down on your arms and give up the fight. That is the act of a coward.
                        After all, it is not the way to win a woman's love."
                    "You don't meanis it possible that you could" he
                        began.
                    "No, no! You must not hope. I love another as dearly as you love me.
                        But I will not have you say that you cannot succeed in life. I know you are
                             strong, and I know you are determined.
                        There is nothing impossible to you," she said hurriedly, seeking
                        feverishly to draw him from his purpose. "When first we met you
                        were cheerful and hopeful, strong and full of life. Then some one came into
                        your life and you saw a black cloud of despair arise. It came up easily and
                        you can drive it away just as easily. It is not of your nature to give up, I
                        know. You can win fame and fortune and the love of some one much worthier
                        than I."
                    "If I live to be a thousand I shall love none as I love
                        you," he said simply. "If you loved me I could win against
                        all the world. Your wealth is a natural barrier between poor love and rich
                        pride, both true possessions of mine. But for the latter the former would
                        win. Can you understand?" he asked almost vehemently.
                    "IIno, I do not understand you," she said panicstricken.
                        His eyes were flashing again in the same old way and his voice, low pitched,
                        had a gallant ring.
                    "I mean I'd win your love and I'd make you my
                        wife."
                    "Mr. Veath! How can youhow dare you" she began, arising
                        indignantly, yet a trifle carried away by his impetuous manner. Her heart
                        was thumping tumultuously and she dared not look into into his eyes.
                    "Dare!" he cried. "You urge me to fight it out and
                        die in the trenches, as it were, and now you ask me why I dare tell you what
                        I'd do under certain  conditions. I
                        merely tell you what I could and would do if I could change the
                        conditions."
                    "You are a trifle over-confident, Mr. Veath," she said
                        coldly. "Good-night."
                    "Don't be angry, please," he cried in humility.
                        "You have spoken to me in a way that has awakened a new spiritthe
                        spirit that men call 'do or die.' To-night the storm rages
                        and we are all in danger. I feel that in an hour like this and in a place
                        like this I am worth more than I have ever been or could be in any other
                        position. The fierceness of the night and the sting of your advice combine
                        to give life and nerve to my weak heart. I am not the man who begged you a
                        moment ago to listen to the weakness of a despairing lover; it is another
                        man, another Henry Veath who talks to you now. From this instant I shall
                        begin the battle against old conditions and you shall be the spoils of
                        battle. Grace, look at me! I am going to show you what real determination
                        means. I want you and I'll win you." His tall figure
                        straightened, his blue eyes gleamed and flashed with the fire of enthusiasm.
                        The timid, fearful Veath was gone, and in his stead stood the valiant,
                        aggressive, inspired contestant.
                    The rolling of the ship sent her staggering toward him, and he caught her by
                        the arms. Steadying himself against the staircase, he cried in her
                        bewildered ear:
                    "I love you better than all else in the world. You are a part of my
                        life, all of my joy. Do you think  I can give
                        you up now that I have found the courage to begin the struggle?
                        I'll win my way and I'll win your love. Nothing but death
                        can stop me now. Come! Don't look as though you hate me for
                        it."
                    "I do not hate you," she said humbly, almost glaring into
                        his bright eyes, unable to turn from the love which governed them so
                        completely. "But you must not talk like this. I cannot listen to
                        you. Mr. Veath, there is no possible hope."
                    "The hope to win and the will to win are two different propositions,
                        and it is the latter under which I am enlisted. To me it is worth fighting
                        for to the end of time."
                    "Oh, you must not say these things to me," she cried
                        fiercely, trying to escape from his eyes.
                    "I shall not say another word to you after to-night until I am sure
                        I have won the victory. Then I shall ask you to be my wife. To-morrow
                        I'll tell your brother I am bound to win. He must know my honest
                        intentions."
                    "My brother!" she gasped. Her knees grew weak and a
                        faintness assailed her heart, almost to overpowering. "Youyou must
                        notshall not say a word to Hugh. I forbid youI"
                    "Why are you so agitated? Why am I not to speak to him? He is
                        fair-minded, and I know he likes me."
                    "You don't know what it would mean to me. There is
                        something you do not know. No, no! You shall not speak to Hugh." It
                        was her turn to command, and he wavered.
                    
                    "Your will is the law which I obey. He shall not knownot now, at
                        least," he said. "There are to be but two factions in the
                        struggle, then, your love against mine."
                    "You forget thethe other man," she said, sudden tears
                        springing to her eyes.
                    "I think only of one woman," he said softly, lovingly.
                    She leaned wearily against the staircase, her hands clasping the railing.
                        There was a piteous, hopeless entreaty in the dimming eyes as she turned
                        them to his and tried to speak calmly.
                    "I have something to say to youto-morrow. Let us say
                        good-night."
                    "Nothing you can say will alter my love. When the storm to-night is
                        at its worst remember that I will give my life for your sake."
                    She did not answer, but her hand clasped his arm impulsively. In the doorway
                        they met Hamilton and Gregory, just from the captain, their faces white and
                        fear-stricken. Hugh and Lady Huntingford were hurrying toward them.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    THE WRECK OF THE "TEMPEST QUEEN"
                    "WHAT's wrong?" asked Veath,
                        alarmed by the agitation of the two soldiers.
                    "Captain Shadburn estimates that we are two hundred miles out of our
                        course, away to the south. It's impossible to get our bearings
                        without the sun, and the Lord only knows where we're running
                        to," said Hamilton, holding to the door casing.
                    Hugh and Lady Huntingford had joined the others by this time and were
                        listening with blanched faces to the men in uniform.
                    "It's as black as ink outside," aid little
                        Lieutenant Gregory, shivering in a manner most unbecoming in a soldier.
                        "As long as they can keep the boat out of the trough we'll
                        ride the waves safely, but the deuced danger lies in the reefs and little
                        islands. We may be dashing into one of them at this minute."
                    "You're a cheerful hero," cried Hugh indignantly.
                        "What's the use of imagining a thing like that?
                        It's time enough to think about it when we strike the reef; and,
                        besides, it can't help us any to cry. We can't leave the
                        ship for a walk back to dry land. We're here to see the thing to
                        the end, no matter where it is, and I don't believe in howling
                        before we're hurt."
                    
                    "That's right," agreed Veath. "Possibly
                        we're out of the course. That happens in every storm that comes up
                        at sea."
                    "But there are hundreds of reefs here that are not even on the
                        chart," cried Gregory.
                    "Well, there have been thousands of ships to escape them all, I
                        fancy," said Ridgeway boldly. The two women were speechless.
                    "And there have been thousands of storms, too," added
                        Veath, a sort of wild exultation ringing in his voice, plain to Grace if not
                        to the others.
                    "Do not try to deceive us, gentlemen," wavered Lady Tennys.
                        "We can be a great deal braver if we know the real situation. I
                        know you are making light of this dreadful storm out of consideration for
                        Miss Ridge and myself, but don't you think it would be better if we
                        were told the worst? Women are not always the greater cowards."
                    "Yes, Hugh, we should know the worst," said Grace firmly.
                        "The ship is rolling frightfully, and Lieutenant Hamilton has said
                        enough to assure us that Captain Shadburn is alarmed, even
                        apprehensive."
                    "Perhaps I am too much of an optimist, but I stick to my statement
                        that while we are in some dangerany fool can see thatwe are by no means
                        lost," said Hugh, looking at Gregory when he used the word
                        fool."
                    As long as the engine and steering apparatus hold together the crew of the
                        ship can pull her through,"  said
                        Veath. "I have the utmost confidence in the boat and the
                        men."
                    "But all the men on the ocean cannot keep her from striking an
                        unseen rock, nor could any ship withstand such a shock," argued the
                        young Englishwoman bravely.
                    "That's right, Lady Tennys," quickly cried
                        Hamilton. "I don't say the ship will get the worst of a
                        straight fight against the sea, but we won't stand the ghost of a
                        chance if we strike a reef."
                    "The best thing we all can do is to find some place where there is
                        not quite so much danger of having our brains dashed out against these
                        walls. It's getting so that I can't keep my feet much
                        longer. This is no time to be taking chances of a broken leg, or an arm or a
                        neck, perhaps. We'll need them all if we have to swim to Hong
                        Kong."
                    Despite his attempted jocularity, Ridgeway was sorely troubled. Common sense
                        told him that they were now in a most perilous position. The dead reckoning
                        of the captain and his chartmaster, while able to determine with a certain
                        degree of accuracy the locality in which the ship was beating, could not
                        possibly account for the exact position of those little islands. He began to
                        think of the life preservers. A feeble smile came to the ladies when he
                        spoke of swimming to Hong Kong, but the men, Veath included, looked
                        serious.
                    "I think it would be wise if we make every preparation to leave the
                        ship, awful as the prospect may  seem. My
                        judgment is that we should take time by the forelock. It will be too late
                        after the crash comes." Veath said this solemnly, and a deeper
                        sense of realization came to all of them. Strange to say, it inspired energy
                        and calmness rather than weakness and panic.
                    "The life preservers, you mean?" almost whispered Grace. A
                        fearful lurch of the boat caused the whole party to cling desperately to the
                        supports. Before he could answer a ship's officer came scudding
                        down below.
                    "Captain Shadburn says that every one is to prepare for the worst.
                        The propeller's smashed and we can't live in this sea. Be
                        quick!" cried the pale-faced sailor, hurrying onward. In an
                        inconceivably short space of time the passages and saloons were crowded with
                        rushing passengers. Pandemonium prevailed. Women were shrieking, men yelling
                        and praying. Cooler heads were utterly powerless to subdue the crazy
                        disorder. Ridgeway and Veath hurried the two women to their staterooms,
                        plunging along, almost falling with the savage rolling of the boat.
                    "For God's sake, hurry!" called Hamilton from
                        afar.
                    "We are turning into the trough."
                    How our friends got into the cumbersome preservers and prepared themselves
                        for the end they could never have told. Everything seemed a blank, the whole
                        world whirled, all the noises in the universe rolled in their ears. Then
                        they were stumbling, rolling, tearing toward the upper deck, hardly knowing
                        whither they went or how they progressed. Before, behind,  beside them were yelling, maddened men and
                        women, rushing upward ruthlessly into the very waves of the ocean, all to be
                        lost.
                    On the steps Hugh and Grace, who were together in advance of Veath and Lady
                        Tennys, encountered the latter's husband. He had fallen, and was
                        grovelling, cursing, screaming, praying on the steps. Hugh pulled him to his
                        feet. With a mad yell he fled onward and upward. At the top he was checked
                        by the sailors, who were vainly trying to keep the people back. He struggled
                        past them and on toward the open deck. An officer caught him and held him
                        firmly until Hugh, Veath, and the two trembling women came up.
                    "Get back, all of you!" yelled Shadburn. "You
                        can't come out here. Every sailor on deck has been washed
                        overboard!"
                    "Don't let us sink! Don't let us sink! For
                        God's sake!" shrieked Lord Huntingford. Then he saw his
                        wife. "Save me, Tennys; we are lost! We are lost!"
                    A great wave swept over the deck, washing all of them back into the
                        companionway, half drowned.
                    "Is there any hope, Mr. Frayne?" yelled Hugh to the second
                        officer, holding himself and his half-dead sweetheart against the leaping of
                        the boat.
                    "One chance in a million! Stay back there and we'll try the
                        boats. God knows they can't live in this sea, but they're
                        the only hope. We'll turn clear over with the next big wave. Stay
                        back!" he yelled. "We are trying to get the boats ready.
                        Stay back!"
                    
                    Hugh and Grace from where they clung could see the great black mountains of
                        water rushing upon them, each wave a most terrifying spectacle. Then again
                        the whole dark, seething ocean seemed to be below them and they were flying
                        to the clouds. The breath of relief died instantly, for again the helpless
                        ship sank into the trough and the foaming mountains towered about her. Grace
                        hid her eyes and screamed with terror. Those huge murderous waves already
                        had swept many from the ship. A score of sailors and as many courageous
                        soldiers were in the churn of the merciless waters.
                    Crash! A horrid grating sound, splintering! Then the instantaneous shock, the
                        awful, stunning force of a frightful blow and a shipful of human beings were
                        flung violently in all directions, many never to rise again. The Tempest Queen had struck! The last chance was gone!
                    "My God!" groaned the captain. "It's all
                        over!" Then he roared: "All hands! All hands! Stations! To
                        the boats! Stand back there! Women first!"
                    Ridgeway, dimly realizing that the end had come, staggered to his feet and
                        instinctively reached for the body of the woman who lay before him. He did
                        not know that he was conscious, nor did he know whether the ship was afloat
                        or sinking. A gigantic wave swept over her, tons of water pouring in upon
                        them. Blankly he dragged her to the opening which led to the watery deck,
                        clinging to a railing with all his might. He was gasping for breath, his
                        life almost  crushea out of his body. It
                        required all his strength to drag the limp form safely away from the
                        passage, through which now poured their crazed companions, rushing headlong
                        into the sea.
                    "In the name of God what shall we do?" he heard a hoarse
                        voice shout in his ear. It was Veath, also burdened with the helpless form
                        of a woman.
                    "It is death here and death there. I am going to trust to the life
                        preservers," gasped Ridgeway, as another wave struck. The constant
                        crackling and crashing told him that the Tempest Queen was
                        being ground to pieces on the rock and that she had but a few minutes to
                        live.
                    "Wait, Hugh, we may get off in a boat," cried the other,
                        but he was not heard. Hugh was in the sea!
                    Just as Veath began his anguished remonstrance the ship gave a tremendous
                        lurch, an overpowering wave hurled itself upon the frail shell and Hugh
                        Ridgeway's frenzied grasp on the rail was broken. When he saw that
                        he was going, he threw both arms about the girl he had brought to this awful
                        fate, and, murmuring a prayer, whirled away with the waters over the
                        battered deck-house and into the black depths.
                    They shot downward into the sea and then came to the hideous surface, more
                        dead than alive. His one thought was that nobody in the world would ever
                        know what had become of Hugh Ridgeway and Grace Vernon.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    THE NIGHT AND THE MORNING
                    GASPING for breath, blinded, terrified beyond all
                        imagination, crying to God from his heart, Hugh gave up all hope. Fathoms of
                        water beneath them, turbulent and gleeful in the furious dance of
                        destruction; mountains of water above them, roaring, swishing, growling out
                        the horrid symphony of death! High on the crest of the wave they soared,
                        down into the chasm they fell, only to shoot upward again, whirling like
                        feathers in the air.
                    Something bumped violently against Ridgeway's side, and, with the
                        instinct of a drowning man, he grasped for the object as it rushed away. A
                        huge section of the bowsprit was in his grasp and a cry of hope arose in his
                        soul. With this respite came the feeling, strong and enduring, that he was
                        not to die. That ever-existing spirit of confidence, baffled in one moment,
                        flashes back into the hearts of all men when the faintest sign of hope
                        appears, even though death has already begun to close his hand upon them.
                        Nature grasps for the weakest straw and clings to life with an assurance
                        that is sublime. The hope that comes just before the end is the strongest
                        hope of all.
                    "For God's sake, be brave, darling! Cling tight  and be careful when you breathe," he
                        managed to cry in her ear. There was no answer, but he felt that she had
                        heard.
                    The night was so black that he could not see the spar to which he clung. At
                        no time could he see more than the fitful gleam of dark water as some
                        mysterious glimmer was produced by the weird machinery of the air. He could
                        hear the roar of the mighty waves, could feel the uplifting power and the
                        dash downward from seemingly improbable heights, but he could not see the
                        cauldron in which they were dancing.
                    It was fortunate that he could not, for a single glimpse of that sea in all
                        its fury would have terrified him beyond control. In sheer despair he would
                        have given up the infinitesimal claim he had for salvation and welcomed
                        death from the smothering tons, now so bravely battled against.
                    The girl to whom he clung and whose rigid clasp was still about his neck had
                        not spoken, and scarcely breathed since the plunge into the sea. At times
                        lie felt utterly alone in the darkness, so deathlike was her silence. But
                        for an occasional spasmodic indication of fear as they and their spar shot
                        downward from some unusual elevation, he might have believed that he was
                        drifting with a corpse.
                    Rolling, tossing, dragging through the billows, clinging to the friendly
                        spar, Hugh Ridegway sped onward, his body stiff and sensationless, his brain
                        fogged and his heart dead with that of the girl to whom he clung so
                        desperately. At last the monstrous  waves
                        began to show their outlines to his blinding eyes. The blackness of the dome
                        above became tinged with a discernible shade of ever-increasing brightness.
                        A thrill shot through his fagging soul as he realized that the long night
                        was ending and day was dawning. The sun was coming forth to show him his
                        grave.
                    Slowly the brightness grew, and with it grew the most dreadful aspect that
                        ever fell upon the eye of manthe mighty sea in all its fury. Suddenly, as he
                        poised on the summit of a huge wave, something ahead struck him as strange.
                        A great mass seemed to rise from the ocean far away, dim, indistinct, but
                        still plain to the eye. With the next upward sweep he strained his eyes in
                        the waning darkness and again saw the vast black, threatening, uneven
                        mass.
                    An uncanny terror enveloped him. What could the strange thing be that
                        appeared to be rushing toward him? As far as the eye could see on either
                        side stretched the misty shape. The sky grew brighter, a faint glow became
                        apparent ahead, spreading into a splendor whose perfection was soon streaked
                        with bars of red and yellow, racing higher and higher into the dome above.
                        His dull brain observed with wonder that the brightness grew, not out of the
                        sea, but beyond the great object ahead, and he was more mystified than ever.
                        The tiny, fiery beams seemed to spring from the dark, ugly, menacing cloud,
                        or whatever it might be. Finally he realized that it was the sun coming into
                        the heavens from the east, andhis heart 
                        roared within him as he began to grasp the truththe great black mass was
                        land!
                    "Oh, God! It is landland!" he tried to shriek.
                    "Grace! Grace! Look up! See! The land!"
                    The arms about his neck tightened sharply and a low moan came to his ears.
                        Slowly and painfully he turned his head to look at the face that had been so
                        near in all those awful hours of the night, unseen. His heart seemed to stop
                        beating with that moan, for it bore the announcement that the dear one was
                        still alive.
                    It was still too dark to distinguish her features plainly. The face was wet
                        and slimy with the salt water; her hair was matted over the forehead and
                        wrapped in ugly strips about the once pretty face, now ghastly with the
                        signs of suffering, fear andyes, death, he thought, as he strove to see one
                        familiar feature.
                    Into his eyes came a quizzical stare that slowly changed to an intense look
                        of bewilderment. Gradually they grew wider with horror.
                    The death-like face was not that of the girl he loved! While he gazed numbly,
                        almost insanely, upon the closed eyelids, they slowly opened and a pair of
                        wild, dark eyes gazed despairingly into his, expressive of timidity more
                        than fear. The trembling lips parted, but the effort to speak ended in a
                        moan. Again the eyes closed and her arms slipped from his neck.
                    Every vestige of strength left him with this startling discovery and, had his
                        arm been anything but rigid  with paralysis,
                        she might have drifted off with the billows, a fate which her voluntary
                        action invited.
                    A great wave rushed them violently forward and the next moment Ridgeway,
                        faint, bewildered, and unable to grasp the full force of the remarkable
                        ending to that night in the water, found himself, still grasping his limp
                        burden and the broken spar, washed far upon the sands. A second wave swept
                        them higher, and he realized, as he lay gasping on the edge of the waters,
                        that the vast ocean was behind him and the beautiful woman he had rescued by
                        mistake.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    WAS THE SEA KIND?
                    HE lost consciousness in the attempt to drag himself and
                        his companion farther up the beach. His arms and legs refused to move in
                        response to his efforts, and the last he remembered was that his body was
                        stiff and he was absolutely powerless. When he again opened his eyes he was
                        lying on a grassy sward with spreading green branches above him. For some
                        minutes he lay perfectly still, dimly sensible that he was alive, but
                        utterly unable to fix his whereabouts. Through his brain there still roared
                        the awful waves; in his eyes there still lingered the vision of the sea as
                        it was when dawn first developed the picture.
                    Fearing that he could not lift his head, he rose to his trembling elbow. His
                        wide eyes swept the view before him. There was the sea not two hundred yards
                        down the slope, rushing and booming upon the stretch of sand which reached
                        within fifty feet of his grassy bed. Behind him grew a forest of queer,
                        tropical trees, the like of which he never had seen before. His jacket had
                        been rolled up as a pillow for his head; his shoes and stockings were off,
                        his shirt bosom unbuttoned. Two soggy life preservers lay near by.
                    At last he caught sight of a woman, alone, forlorn,  the picture of despondency. Far down the beach to his right
                        there rose a rugged, stony formation, extending into the sea and rising
                        several hundred feet in the air. At the base of this rocky promontory a
                        multitude of great boulders lay scattered, some quite large and jagged,
                        others insignificant in size.
                    Upon one of the smaller stones, well up the slope, sat the figure of the
                        woman he had dragged from the sea and whom he had hated with his last
                        conscious breath. Her head was lying against the sheer wall that ran up
                        alongside, and he could tell that she was staring out toward the sea, which
                        roared against the rocks so close by that the spray must have reached her
                        feet. The distance to this rock was fully three hundred yards. There was a
                        fascination about her loneliness that held him immovable for a long time.
                        Finally he struggled to a sitting posture, faint and dizzy. At the same
                        moment she slowly turned her head and looked in his direction. Half rising,
                        she made a movement as if to come toward him, first peering intently. Then
                        she sank back upon the rock and sent her gaze out to the sea again.
                    With all the haste he could command he scrambled eagerly toward the rocks,
                        carrying the crumpled jacket in his hand. Not once did she take her eyes
                        from the breakers. Tired and faint, he at last came to the edge of the rocky
                        pile. Here his strength failed him and he sank trembling with exhaustion
                        upon the first friendly stone, still a hundred feet from where she sat. In
                        his bitter rage against her he strove to 
                        shout, but the effort was little more than a hoarse whisper. Lying there
                        impotently, he studied her attitude as the minutes crept by, and there came
                        at last into his heart a touch of pity that swelled with the sight of
                        her.
                    Pain-racked but determined, he again started toward the elevation, crawling
                        over and around the boulders that intervened. He was within five feet of her
                        before he spoke, and then not until he had studied her face for some
                        moments, steadying himself against a large rock. She was more beautiful than
                        ever with her black hair awry and matted, brushed away from the pure white
                        face and fastened recklessly with the shell combs she had worn on board the
                            Tempest Queen. Her blue eyes looked mournfully from
                        beneath their long lashes. The slender white hands lay listlessly in the lap
                        of the once white dress, now water-stained, wrinkled and shapeless. In spite
                        of all that dreadful buffeting by the wind and water she was still the
                        beautiful creation of nature he had found so charming in a realm where
                        nature seldom presents herself.
                    "Lady Tennys," he called hoarsely. "You do not
                        know how I thank God you are alive."
                    She turned slowly, as if she had known all along of his tortuous approach.
                        Her voice was low and thrilling.
                    "I prayed for hours, it seemed, after we were dashed upon this
                        shore, that you might live and that I might die. The knowledge that you
                        saved me through mistake, 
                        
                            "'LADY TENNYS. . . . YOU DO NOT KNOW HOW I
                                THANK GOD YOU ARE ALTVE'"
                        
                        
                         that you were battling so long and so bravely
                        all through the night for the one you cherished more than all in the world,
                        made me pray from the first that I could be dead before you discovered the
                        horrid error. You picked me up when the crash came and I was too terrified
                        to even think of crying aloud in protest. Then we were in that awful, awful
                        water. It was not until hours afterward that I felt we might escape and that
                        I should have to face your grief." He reached up and clasped her
                        hand.
                    "Don'tdon't talk like that now," he
                        groaned. "I hated you this morning, butGod, it is a relief to have
                        you here to share all this with me. God threw us into the sea and He has
                        saved us. I would to God I could have gone down withwith her,
                        butbut" and he broke down, his head falling upon his outstretched
                        arms at her feet. A deep sob from Lady Tennys caused him to lift his haggard
                        eyes to hers. "It would have been so much better than to live
                        without her," he cried.
                    "Why did you not let me go when you found who I was?" she
                        cried almost fiercely. "I wanted to drown, I was hungry to go to
                        the bottom, to be washed away to the end of the ocean, anywhere but here
                        with you when you thought you were saving her. You had forgotten that I
                        existed until that awful moment in the breakers. I heard her cry out to you
                        as we went overboard. All through the night I heard that cry of `Hugh!
                        Hugh!" It was worse than the worst of deaths!"
                    
                    At the mention of Grace's piteous cry, even though heard in
                        imagination, Hugh sank limply to the rock, his mouth falling open and his
                        eyes bulging forth in agony. Every drop of blood in his veins seemed frozen
                        with the realization that he had deserted her in that hour when she had most
                        needed him, that he had left her to go down to death without being by her
                        side, that she had cried out to him for help,had reached out to him in
                        agony. Crazed by a sudden impulse, he sprang to his feet and glared out over
                        the tumbling waves,ever moving mountains that reached as far as the eye
                        could see. She arose also, trembling and alarmed.
                    "Where is she? Where is she?" he cried fiercely.
                    "My God! Look at that water! Grace, Grace! My darling, how could I
                        have left you alone to die in that hell of water! Let me come to you now,
                        dearest. I will save you. I will come! Hugh is coming, dearest! Look! She
                        must be out there somewhere. I can reach her if I try. I must
                        go!"
                    Insane with despair, he leaped to his feet and would have dashed down the
                        steep into the death-dealing breakers had not his companion, with a sharp
                        cry, clutched his arm. He turned fiercely, ready to strike her in his
                        frenzy. His glaring eyes met hers, sweet, wide, and imploring, and their
                        influence told at once upon him. A rush of quiet almost benumbed him, so
                        immediate was the reaction from violence to submission.
                    "You must not do that!" she cried in horror.
                    
                    "Let me save her, for God's sake. I cannot leave her to the
                        sea."
                    "Be calm!" she wailed. "Hours ago I would have
                        leaped into the sea myself, but the thought came to me that she may not be
                        lost after all. There is something for you to live for."
                    "There is nothing. She is lost," he cried.
                    "As I stood here, I wondered if she might not have been saved as
                        miraculously as we. Wonder grew into hope and hope took the shape of
                        possibility. Hugh, she may be alive and as safe as we!"
                    His eyes brightened like a flash; his breath came quickly; he tried to speak,
                        but could not for the joy of hope.
                    "The hope that she may have been saved and may yet be given back to
                        you kept me from ending the life that did not belong to me, but to her. Hugh
                        Ridgeway, I have spent a thousand years on these rocks, trying to find
                        courage to live. But for me she would be standing here with you. You would
                        have saved her had I not been in the way last night," she
                        whispered. He could see that she suffered, but he was again blind to
                        everything but his own great despair.
                    "Yes," he cried savagely, "but for you I would
                        have saved her. Oh, I could curse youcurse you!" She shrank back
                        with a low moan, covering her eyes with her hands.
                    "Don't say that!" she murmured piteously.
                        "I would to God I could have gone down with the ship."
                    
                    His eyes softened and a wave of remorse swept over him.
                    "Forgive me," he groaned, "I am mad or I could not
                        have said that to you. I did not mean it." He placed his hand on
                        hers, clasping the fingers firmly. "Forget that I spoke so cruelly.
                        I devoutly thank God that your life was spared. We both loved the one who
                        was left behind."
                    She glanced down at his face doubtingly, unbelievingly, at first. Then a
                        gleam of joy flooded her tired eyes, illumined her face. Sinking down beside
                        him, she placed her head upon his shoulder and wept softly. He did not move
                        from his position on the rock below. His heart was full of tenderness for
                        the living and grief for the dead. His eyes stared out over the sea
                        wistfully.
                    "I cannot look at that water!" he suddenly shrieked,
                        drawing back in abject terror. "It is horrible!
                        Horrible!"
                    He left her side and dashed madly away, strength having come with sudden
                        abhorrence. She looked after him in alarm, her eyes wide with the fear that
                        he was bereft of reason. Down the rocks and up the beach he fled,
                        disappearing among the strangely shaped trees and underbrush that marked the
                        outskirts of the jungle. Again she leaned back against the rock and looked
                        at the unfriendly billows beyond, a feeling that she sat deserted forever on
                        that barren shore plunging her soul into the very lowest pits of
                        wretchedness.
                    
                    Hours afterward he crept painfully from the cool, lonely jungle into the
                        bright glare of the beach,calmer, more rational, cursing no more. A shudder
                        swept over him, a chill penetrated to the marrow of his bones as he looked
                        again upon the sea. His eyes sought the rocks upon which he had left her;
                        his heart was full of an eagerness to comfort her and be comforted in
                        return.
                    She still sat upon the rock and he hurried toward her. As on his first
                        approach, she did not move. When he drew quite close, he discovered that she
                        was lying limply back against the supporting boulder. The fear that she was
                        dead and that he was left alone almost struck him to the ground. He reached
                        her side, pale and panting, and then breathed a prayer of rejoicing.
                    Lady Tennys, her dark lashes resting tranquilly upon her cheek, was lying
                        easily against the staunch old rock, fast asleep.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    THE WONDERFUL LAND
                    HE did not arouse her at once, but sat below her, looking
                        at her sweet, tired face, peaceful in the slumber that had been so long in
                        coming, wondering what her dreams could be. Far down the shore, near the
                        tree under which he had found himself and to whose shelter she had dragged
                        him,something told him vaguely,was the spar that had ridden the waves with
                        them the night before. Long, white and gleaming it lay in the waning
                        sunlight. The sight of it filled him with an enthusiasm he never had known
                        before. His heart swelled with homage to the strong, sturdy piece of timber.
                        It was like a living object to him now, a friend to whom he felt like
                        talking, to whom he could turn for proof positive of an unparalleled
                        experience on the deep.
                    His eyes grew sad and gloomy as he turned toward the setting king of day. In
                        his imagination, the Tempest Queen, with all on board,
                        went down precisely at the point chosen by the sun for his
                        disappearance.
                    Night coming! Where were they? Upon an unknown shore, Heaven alone knowing
                        how far from habitation, from all shelter save the tree-tops, from all means
                        of sustenance. Night coming! Behind them  the
                        mysterious jungle, before them the devil-brewed ocean.
                    A chilly perspiration broke out over him; a fear even worse than that of the
                        night before attacked him. How far were they from human habitation? What
                        manner of people dwelt in this land? As these thoughts tumbled about in his
                        brain, suddenly came the implacable desire for water. It seemed days since
                        he had tasted it. Like a flash, nature began its demands, and he was almost
                        overcome by the prospect of night on the rocks with no possible hope to find
                        the food and water now so necessary.
                    Lady Tennys slept on, untouched by the calamities that beset him, her breast
                        rising full and regularly. As he looked upon her lovely face the spirit of
                        chivalry returned. She had thought of him in his unconsciousness and she had
                        been brave and true. Bound by a new determination to find food and water for
                        her and to provide other shelter than the draughty crannies among the rocks,
                        he painfully started up the slope toward the edge of the forest. Soon he
                        stood upon the broad, smooth plateau, looking into the green, sunless
                        depths.
                    Behind him lay the beach and the fringe of the jungle; to seaward rose the
                        rocky point full two hundred feet higher than the spot on which he stood,
                        panting for breath; to his right, descending gradually, ran the lofty hill
                        to a place, not more than a quarter of a mile away, where it merged into the
                        forest. The ridge on which he stood was not more than  one hundred feet wide, a flat, narrow, sloping table. Filled
                        with curiosity, he strode to the opposite side and found himself upon the
                        edge of a sharp decline, almost perpendicular in its fall to the valley
                        below, which was apparently lower than the beach from which he had come.
                    As far as the eye could reach inland there was a mass of bright green trees,
                        luxuriant and beautiful. Below him was water, a natural harbor of tiny
                        dimensions, running back from the sea which lay off to the far right as he
                        faced the head of this peculiar elevation. Plain to his eye was the contour
                        of this great rock. It resembled the letter L. Along the sea line it
                        stretched high and ugly for nearly a mile, a solid wall, he imagined, some
                        three hundred feet above the water, narrow at the top, like a great
                        backbone. The little cove below him was perhaps a mile across. The opposite
                        shore was low and verdure-clad. The rocky eminence that formed the wall on
                        two sides was the only high ground to be seen for miles around.
                    Down the slope he sped, dusky shadows beginning to tell of the coming night.
                        His feet finally touched upon the grass-covered soil; he was off the barren
                        rock and at the edge of the dismal forest. Without a quiver he hurried under
                        the great leaves and among the trees. The ground sloped gently downward to
                        the now invisible harbor. He turned in that direction. Monkeys chattered in
                        the trees and strange birds hurtled through the dense growth. His foot
                        struck against a queer green object and an instant  later he gave a shout of joy. It was a cocoanut, green and
                        smooth.
                    Food! In an instant he realized that he had found something that could
                        appease the cravings of hunger for the time being, at least. He searched
                        eagerly, feverishly in the matted grass, and soon had a dozen great nuts
                        piled at the edge of the wood. Then he renewed his search for the water that
                        must keep life in their famished bodies.
                    The lapping of waves grew louder as he pushed his way through the trees, and
                        a moment later he narrowly escaped plunging into the waters of the
                        shimmering little bay. The coast was semicircular in shape, rising high and
                        black to his left, running low and green to his right. Not one hundred feet
                        to the left were the first signs of the rocky promontory, small, jagged
                        boulders standing like a picket line before the great mass beyond. Along the
                        rocky side of the wall, some distance away, he saw an overhanging shelf of
                        dark gray stone, protruding over the natural floor beneath. An inky darkness
                        back of the projection impressed him with the idea that a cave lay
                        beyond.
                    At his feet trickled a little stream of clear, sparkling water, coming from
                        the crevasse above, the headquarters of a spring. He fell upon his knees and
                        plunged his hot face into the cool water, swallowing great gulps.
                    When he arose to his feet everything looked brighter, fairer, happier. The
                        scene, gorgeous a few moments  before, was now
                        more than that to his revived senses. A desire to shout jubilantly came over
                        him. With an exultation that he could scarcely control he dashed on up the
                        sand-strewn ledge toward the awning-like rock.
                    He found that a roomy cave ran back into the hill a dozen feet or more. Its
                        floor was covered with fine white sand, thrown up from the beach during the
                        wind storms, and it was a most perfect shelter,this hole fifty feet above
                        the placid waters.
                    Darkness was coming, so he ran back to the little rivulet. In a broken
                        cocoanut shell he secured some fresh water and began his journey to the
                        other side of the ridge. The sun was down to the level of the sea when he
                        came from the rocks and within sight of the spot where he had left his fair
                        companion.
                    She was not there!
                    A great trembling fear assailed him and he sank back with a groan of despair.
                        Then he heard his name called faintly and piteously.
                    "Here I am!" he cried. "Where are you?" A
                        glad cry arose from below, and he saw her coming rapidly from the small
                        boulders near the water, some distance to the left. He hurried to meet
                        her.
                    "Oh, I thought you had left me to die up there," she gasped
                        as they drew near to each other. "Mr. RidgewayHugh, I am so glad
                        you have come."
                    "You were asleep when I came back an hour ago. See? I have found
                        water. Drink!" With one hand he reached down and took hers, eagerly
                        upstretched,  drawing her to the rock on which
                        he stood. She gulped the contents of the shell with the haste of one half
                        famished.
                    "How good!" she cried, with eyes sparkling as she took the
                        empty shell from her moist lips. "I was so thirsty that I tried to
                        drink that bitter stuff down there. How horrible it must be to die of
                        thirst. Can we find food, Hugh? Is there nothing to eat? I am so hungry, so
                        hungry." The sparkle faded from her eyes and a look of pain filled
                        them.
                    "I have found cocoanuts on the other side of the hill. We can make
                        them serve until I have a chance to look farther. Come. We must hurry, or
                        the night will make it impossible for us to cross this hill and find the
                        cave."
                    "Cave?"
                    "A wonderful shelter for the night. Can you walk that far? It will
                        not be difficult after we reach the top of this little
                        mountain."
                    Together they began the tortuous ascent, following as closely as possible the
                        course he had taken. They were scarcely able to stand when they at last
                        reached the top. Neither saw the beauty in the view, so eager were they to
                        find rest and nourishment. As they passed painfully down the slope, he told
                        her of the monkeys, the nuts, the cave, the rivulet, and the splendor of the
                        scene, cheering her lagging spirits with what animation he could assume. A
                        few chattering monkeys welcomed them to the woodland, and she was
                        momentarily aroused to interest in her surroundings, uttering  little cries of delight. They came to the
                        pile of nuts, and he took up several in his free arm. The cave was reached
                        at last and both sank exhausted to the white sand. It was now so dark that
                        the stars were gathering above them and objects were indistinct to the
                        vision.
                    "Thank God!" he exclaimed, lying flat on his back, his arms
                        outstretched.
                    "I am so tired," she murmured, her head drooping against
                        the wall as she seated herself near the opening. After many minutes he began
                        the task of opening the cocoanuts.
                    "To-morrow I shall go hunting for something more substantial than
                        these nuts. There must be fruit, berries and vegetables of some kind in the
                        forest," said he.
                    "How are we to get away from here, Hugh?" she asked.
                        "Where are we? This may be an uninhabited island, and we may have
                        to stay here all of our lives." There was an awe in her voice, and
                        he could imagine that the prospect brought horror to her face. By this time
                        it was almost pitch dark.
                    "Have I not found food, water and shelter within an hour's
                        time? Can good fortune end with this? Let us sleep peacefully to-night and
                        hope for the best with to-morrow's developments."
                    "Sleep? Where are we to sleep?"
                    "In this cave and upon the sand. There is no other place. It is
                        safe, Lady Tennys, and you are to have my coat as a pillow for that tired
                        little head of  yours." With this he
                        arose and threw off his coat despite her protests, rolling it into a compact
                        little bundle. Placing this improvised pillow on the sand near the rear of
                        the cave, he said:
                    "There is your bed, my Lady. It is the very best in the
                        hotel."
                    "You are so good to me, Hugh,much better than I thought you could be
                        afterafter"
                    "Please don't say what you started to say," he
                        interrupted, his voice breaking suddenly. He stood with his shoulder against
                        one of the outer corners of the cave, she sitting quietly behind him. At
                        last he went on, as if the thought came slowly, "Lady Huntingford,
                        forgive my selfishness. I have been bewailing my own misfortune in a most
                        unmanly way, while you have borne your loss bravely, thinking only to
                        comfort me. Forgive me."
                    "My loss?" she asked in wonder.
                    "Lord Huntingford," he said gently.
                    "Oh!" she exclaimed, starting sharply. "LordLord
                        Huntingford! Oh, Hugh, I had forgottenI had not thought," but she
                        did not complete the bewildered speech. He could have believed that she did
                        not breathe during the next few moments as she stood there, straight and
                        rigid, clasping his arm convulsively. Then she turned away and walked
                        quickly to the bed on the sand, lying down without a word. He could
                        distinguish nothing of her person save certain outlines in the darkness, and
                        although he listened intently, he heard no sob, no sigh.
                    
                    Soon his eyes grew heavy and he felt the overpowering force of sleep upon
                        him. Removing his waistcoat, he went to the other side of the cave and
                        prepared to stretch himself out for rest. He paused and listened for a sound
                        from her. None came, so in some trepidation he stepped nearer. Soft, regular
                        breathing, deep and full, told him that she was asleep. In considerable
                        wonder he went back to his hard bed. Out of the confusion of thoughts and
                        impressions that followed her surprising admission, came at last the dim,
                        sleepy understanding of the situation.
                    She had not thought of Lord Huntingford until he mentioned the old
                        nobleman's name.
                    With the last faint whirl of wakefulness came the suggestion of roaming wild
                        beasts, creeping up to attack them in the night, but sleep greedily
                        swallowed the half-formed fear.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    THE FIRST DAY IN THE WILDS
                    THE sun was up hours before Ridgeway stretched his stiff
                        arms, blinked his sleepy eyes and peered wonderingly about his strange
                        apartment. Another and more rapid glance failed to reveal Lady Tennys. His
                        jacket was still there, and a round depression showed that her head had
                        rested upon it all night. The packed sand denoted the once present body of
                        the sleeper.
                    "Good-morning," came a sweet, clear voice from
                        somewhere.
                    "Hello! Where are you?" he called, greatly relieved.
                    "In the kitchen, of course, getting breakfast for you. The kitchen
                        is down at the spring, you know. Come down."
                    He hurried down the path, and found her standing beside the bounding little
                        stream. Her wavy black hair was no longer matted and wild, for, with the
                        water in the cove as a mirror and her big hair comb as the necessary toilet
                        article, she had "done it up" in quite a presentable
                        fashion. Her face was bright and pure in its freshness, her hands were white
                        and immaculately clean; her eyes sparkled with a deeper,  clearer blue than ever. She wore an air of
                        restored confidence in herself.
                    "I have been up for two hours or more. See how nice and clean I am.
                        Go down there and wash your hands and face and I will comb your
                        hair." She produced an improvised clothes broom, a stout leafy
                        branch from a cocoanut-tree, and swished the sand from his clothing as he
                        turned about for her obediently.
                    "These clothes of mine are full of sand and scum from the sea, but
                        before the day is over I intend to give them a good scrubbing and drying.
                        Then I'll feel like a new man. But wait! This may be Sunday, not
                        Monday. Can't wash on Sunday, can I? Let's see, the wreck
                        was on Thursday night, yesterday was Friday and"
                    "And to-day is Saturday naturally. We must have clean clothes for
                        Sunday. Our parlor, kitchen, and laundry are in the same room, it would
                        seem. Here's a pile of cocoanuts I collected while you slept, and
                        there are some plums or fruit of some kind. They grow back there in the wood
                        a short distance. I saw some gorgeous birds out there, and they were eating
                        the fruit, so it must be wholesome. And those dear, saucy little monkeys! I
                        could watch them for hours."
                    "Did you run across any boa constrictors or anacondas?"
                        asked he serenely.
                    "Good Heavens! I never thought of snakes. There may be dreadful
                        serpents in that forest, Hugh." Her eyes were full of alarm.
                    
                    "I merely asked your Ladyship in order to keep the cook in her
                        kitchen," laughed he.
                    "An afternoon out is not a luxury in this land, even for the most
                        cooped up of cooks. Snakes! Ugh!" Hugh thought she shuddered very
                        prettily.
                    "Breakfast will be cold if I don't hurry," he
                        observed. He made his way around the rocky bend to the point where the
                        rivulet emptied into the cove. When he returned to the shady spot he was put
                        to work opening cocoanuts and pouring the milk into the shells of others.
                        She had cleaned the flat surface of a large rock which stood well out from
                        the lower edge of the cliff, and signified her intention to use it as a
                        dining table. He became enthused and, by the exertion of all the strength he
                        could muster, succeeded in rolling two boulders down the incline, placing
                        them in position as stools beside the queer table. Then they stood off and
                        laughed at the remarkable set of furniture.
                    "I wonder what time it is?" she said as they began to eat.
                        He pulled his forgotten repeater from his watch pocket and opened it with
                        considerable apprehension. It was not running, nor did it appear as if it
                        would ever be of service again.
                    "How are we ever to know the time of day?" she cried.
                    "I'll try to fix it. It is only water-clogged. My little
                        compass on the charm is all right and it will give us our bearings, north
                        and south, so that I can get the time by the sun. I'll drive a
                        little stake out there  on the level, and when
                        the shadow is precisely north and south, then it is noon. It's all
                        very simple, Lady Tennyson."
                    "I'm only the cook, Hugh. Won't you please call me
                        Tennys?"
                    "Thank you; it's such a waste of time to say Lady Tennyson.
                        Shall I order dinner, cook?"
                    "We'll have a ten-course dinner, sir, of cocoanuts and
                        plums, sir, if you please, sir."
                    "Breakfast warmed over, I see," he murmured, gazing
                        resignedly toward the trees. Later on he managed to get some life into his
                        watch and eventually it gave promise of faithful work. He set the hands at
                        twelve o'clock. It was broiling hot by this time, and he was
                        thoughtful enough to construct a poke-bonnet for her, utilizing a huge palm
                        leaf. Proudly he placed the green protector upon her black hair. Then,
                        looking into her smiling eyes, he tied the grass cord under her up-tilted
                        chin.
                    "Perfect!" she cried, with genuine pleasure. "You
                        must make another for yourself." Whether he took it as a command or
                        as a request matters not. Suffice it to say, he soon produced another
                        palm-leaf hat, and she tied it under his chin a great deal more deftly than
                        he had performed the same service for her, consequently with a speed that
                        disappointed him.
                    He decided to make a short tour of the wood during the afternoon. At first he
                        argued it would be wise to walk far down the coast, in the hope of finding a
                        village of some description along the water 
                        front. Then he decided that a trip to the north, through the wood, would be
                        better, as the lower coast could be surveyed from the summit of the great
                        rock.
                    "You are not afraid to stay here alone for a couple of hours, are
                        you, Tennys?" he asked, discerning solicitude in her face.
                    "I am not afraid for myself, but for you. You must be very careful,
                        Hugh, and come back to me safely. What can I do? What shall I do if you
                        never come back?" she cried.
                    "Nothing can happen to menothing in the world. See, it's
                        nearly one o'clock now. I'll be back by five. And
                        I'll be careful, so do not be troubled. We must find the way out of
                        this wilderness. Be brave and I'll soon be with you
                        again."
                    He was soon in the depths of the forest, skirting the little bay toward the
                        north. She stood beside their stone festal board, watching him through
                        uneasy eyes till he disappeared completely from view. A sense of loneliness
                        so overpowering that it almost crushed her fell upon this frail, tender
                        woman as she stood there on the edge of the South Sea jungle, the boundless
                        sea at her back. The luxuries and joys of a life to which she had been
                        accustomed came up in a great flash before her memory's eye, almost
                        maddening in their seductiveness. She glanced at the dress she wore, and a
                        faint, weary smile came to her eyes and lips. Instead of the white, perfect
                        yachting costume, she saw the wretched, shrunken, stained, shapeless garment
                             ment that to her eyes would have looked
                        appalling on the frame of a mendicant. Her costly shoes, once small and
                        exquisitely moulded to her aristocratic feet, were now soiled and ugly.
                    From the palace to the jungle! From the wealth of fashion to the poverty of
                        nature! From the scores of titled admirers to the single brave American who
                        shared life with her on the bleak rock, mourning for a love that might never
                        be restored by the unkind depths. A vision of yesterday and to-day! Turning
                        to the sea, she breathed a prayer for the salvation of Grace Vernon, her
                        eyes dimming as she thought of the blithe, cheery girl who had become so
                        dear to her, and who was all the world to Hugh Ridgeway.
                    Her thoughts went then to Lord Huntingford, her husband. There was scant
                        regret in her heart over the fate of the old nobleman. She was not cruel
                        enough to rejoice, but there was a certain feeling of relief which she could
                        not quell, try as she would, in the belief that he had gone down to death
                        and a younger, nobler man spared. The last she saw of her husband was when
                        he broke past the officers and plunged out upon the deck, leaving her to her
                        fate. That he had been instantly swept overboard she had no doubt. All she
                        could remember of her thoughts at that thrilling moment was the brief,
                        womanly cry for mercy to his soul. After that came the lurch which
                        prostrated her, and then Ridgeway's cry, "Be brave,
                        dearest!"
                    
                    Bitter tears streamed down her cheeks as she thought of the strong-hearted
                        Veath and the forsaken American girland all of the others in that merry
                        company. It was not in such anguish as this that she summed up her
                        individual loss.
                    Ridgeway was soon in the thick of the jungle. For two or three hours he
                        plunged through beautiful glades, over swelling knolls, across tiny streams,
                        but always through a waste of nature that, to all appearance, had never been
                        touched by a human being save himself.
                    At last he dropped wearily upon a grassy mound and resigned himself to the
                        conviction that they had been swept upon an absolutely unexplored, perhaps
                        undiscovered, portion of the globe. It did not occur to his discouraged mind
                        that he had covered less than five miles of what might be a comparatively
                        small piece of uninhabited land and that somewhere not far distant lay the
                        civilization for which he sought. His despairing mind magnified the horrors
                        of their position to such an extent that he actually wondered how long it
                        would be before death broke down their feeble resistance. Arising
                        despondently, he turned his steps in the direction of the little cave.
                    It was not long before he reached a small sandy stretch about five hundred
                        yards from the spot where he had left Lady Tennys. Little waves licked the
                        short strip of sand lazily, seeming to invite him down to meet them on their
                        approach from the big sea whose tidings of woe they bore. High, dark and  ominous loomed the great rock on the south.
                        He could not see the cave or the rivulet on account of obstructing trees and
                        a curve in the shore, so he walked down to the very edge of the water,
                        expecting to obtain a view from that point.
                    A startling discovery flashed upon him as he strode upon the beach. There, in
                        the white, soft sand were plainly revealed the footprints of a bare human
                        foot. He rubbed his eyes and gazed again. Before him were a number of small
                        footprints, running to and from the water. In a dazed, wondering way he
                        sought to follow them, eventually finding where a single line of tracks led
                        directly toward a clump of trees to his left. At the edge of this he found a
                        confusion of bewildering barefoot moulds, mixed with others unquestionably
                        made by a shoe on the foot of a civilized person. Hurrying through the
                        trees, fearful that savages had attacked Lady Tennys at this place, he was
                        suddenly confronted by a spectacle that made him gasp. Down at the
                        water's edge, over near the place where he had left her, he saw
                        white garments spread upon the rocks. She was nowhere to be seen. Like a
                        flash the truth came to him, and he looked at his watch in consternation. It
                        was but three-thirty o'clock. He had told her he would be away
                        until five or after.
                    Turning about, he dashed back into the depths of the wood. It was after five
                        when he again approached the rendezvous, carrying a quantity of plums and
                        other fruits and a number of gaudy feathers that he  had found. Away back in the wood he began to shout to her,
                        long before he was in sight of the hill. She answered cheerily, venturing
                        into the wood to meet him.
                    Her clothes were white, clean, even shapely.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    THE SIGN OF DISTRESS
                    THE next morning before she was awake he arose and made a
                        tour of the beach in quest of shell fish, took a plunge in the cool waters
                        of the bay, and again inspected the little footprints in the sand. He smiled
                        as he placed his own foot, a number nine, beside the dainty imprint. On his
                        way back to the cave he killed a huge turtle, the meat of which he promised
                        should keep them alive for several days, if nothing better could be found.
                        As he turned the bend he saw her standing on the ledge at the mouth of the
                        cave, the wind blowing her hair and skirts freely. He called to her, and she
                        turned her face eagerly in his direction. They met among the trees some
                        distance from the spring.
                    "Where have you been?" she cried, her cheeks glowing.
                    "Hunting wild beasts," he replied valiantly.
                    "Pooh! Wild flowers, you mean. I thought perhaps you had gone off to
                        join the monkeys for an oldtime frolic in the trees."
                    "You won't be so frivolous when I tell you of the narrow
                        escape I have had. See that trusty club? See the blood on it?" They
                        were standing close  to each other as he held
                        up the blood-spattered stick.
                    "Oh, Hugh," she gasped, "is it
                        blood?"
                    "Life's blood," he answered laconically.
                    "Not yours, Hugh? You are not hurt?" she cried.
                    "This is the beast's blood, Tennys. I am not so much as
                        scratched, but it was a frightful encounter," he went on, with
                        well-assumed gravity.
                    "Tell me about it. Where was it? What was it? Tell me
                        everything," she begged. He took her arm and together they
                        proceeded toward their wild home.
                    "After breakfast I'll take you around the bend and prove to
                        you my valor."
                    "But I cannot wait and, besides, you have proved your valor. Do tell
                        me where the blood came from."
                    "That awful thing plunged from the underbrush upon me so suddenly
                        that I was almost paralyzed," he said soberly. "I
                        didn't have much time to think, and I don't know what I
                        should have done if it had not been for this excellent club, which I had cut
                        for a rather inglorious purpose. With one of the very best strokes a golfer
                        ever made I cracked his skull."
                    "His skull!"
                    "Likewise his neck. Then I cut his throat."
                    "Oh, Hugh!" breathlessly.
                    "And I'm going back after breakfast to carve him up into
                        roasts, steaks and soups enough to last us for a month."
                    "Oh, it must have been something gigantic. Was it a
                        rhinoceros?" she cried ecstatically.
                    
                    "Rhinoceros soup!" he exclaimed in disgust. She was
                        properly contrite. "I'll tell you what I killed, if
                        you'll promise to endure the shockand not tell any one
                        else." He placed his lips close to her little ear and whispered in
                        awe-struck tones, "A turtle!"
                    "A turtle! Why, a baby could kill a turtle. You are no longer a
                        hero. Enough to last a month! Hugh Ridgeway, are you delirious?"
                        she exclaimed in fine scorn.
                    "Wait till you see him. He weighs a ton," he said
                        proudly.
                    After their breakfast of nuts, fruit and water they started for the little
                        beach, Lady Tennys vastly excited. Her exclamations on seeing the sea
                        monster amused Hugh beyond measure.
                    "I never dreamed a turtle could be so immense," she cried.
                        "This one must be a thousand years old."
                    "If he is, we'll have tough steaks," observed he
                        grimly. Later on he carved several fine steaks from the turtle and cleaned
                        the upper shell carefully, wisely concluding to retain it for the usefulness
                        it was sure to afford sooner or later. "There is one thing to be
                        done," said he, when they sat down to rest. "I must climb
                        up that mountain and plant a white flag to show that we are here if a ship
                        should pass. I'll do that as soon as I have rested, provided I can
                        find anything white that is large enough to be seen from a
                        distance."
                    She looked far out over the harbor for a minute, a tinge of red running to
                        her ears.
                    
                    "A handkerchief would be too small, wouldn't it?"
                        she asked.
                    "I'm afraid so," he answered glumly.
                    Soon afterward she left him and went to the cave, bidding him to await her
                        return. When she came back she carried in her hand a broad piece of white
                        cloth, which she laid before him on the grass. There was a look of modest
                        reluctance in her eyes when he glanced quickly up at them. A cherished
                        underskirt, ripped ruthlessly from waistband to ruffle, making one broad
                        white flag of the finest texture, was her offering.
                    "Use that, Hugh." She could not resist smiling as she
                        pointed to it.
                    "It will be the very thing," he said, arising and taking
                        the garment from the ground somewhat carefully.
                    "It won't hurt you," she said, laughing frankly;
                        whereupon he waved it rudely above his head and pointed to the pinnacle of
                        the rock.
                    "With this I shall scale the rock and skirt the bay!"
                    Within ten minutes he was on his way up the incline, carrying his stout stick
                        in his hand, another heavier and stronger one being bound to his back with
                        the white signal attached. She accompanied him to the point where the ascent
                        became difficult and full of danger.
                    "Be careful, Hugh," she said; "it looks so
                        dangerous. If you find there is any possibility of falling, don't
                        attempt to go to the top. You are so daring, you Americans, that you do not
                        recognize peril at all. Promise me, or I shall not allow you to go
                        on."
                    
                    He looked down into her serious upturned eyes and promised. Then he resumed
                        the ascent, with a queer flutter of adulation in his heart.
                    From time to time he paused to rest. In each instance he looked below, waving
                        his hand encouragingly to the anxious one who watched him so closely. On,
                        over fierce crags, around grim towers, along steep walls, higher and higher
                        he crawled. Twice he slipped and fell back several feet. When he glanced
                        down, cold perspiration standing on his forehead, he saw her bending with
                        averted face, her hands pressed to her eyes as if she expected his body to
                        come crashing to her feet. With recovered energy he shouted to her, and the
                        quick, glad glance upward was enough to make the remainder of the ascent
                        glorious to him. At last, his hands and knees bleeding, he crawled upon the
                        small, flat top of the mountain, five hundred feet above the breakers, three
                        hundred feet above the woman he had left behind.
                    The sea wind whistled in his ears as he arose to his feet. His knees trembled
                        and he grew momentarily dizzy as he looked out over the vast, blue plain
                        before him. Fear seized upon him; there came a wild desire to plant his flag
                        and hurry from the death-like summit. Sitting down, he nervously unfastened
                        the pole and flag, looking about as he did so for a place to plant the
                        beacon. For one moment his heart sank only to bound with joy in the next.
                        Almost at his elbow ran a crevasse in the rock, deep and narrow. It was but
                        an instant's work to j am the pole into this  crevasse, and the white flag was fluttering to the breeze. He
                        was certain it would be days before the winds could whip it to shreds.
                    A feeling of helplessness and dismay came over him as he gave thought to the
                        descent. In his eagerness to begin the hazardous attempt, he almost forgot
                        the chief object of his climb to the topthe survey of the surrounding
                        country. As far as he could see there stretched the carpet of forest land,
                        the streak of beach and the expanse of water. In the view there was not one
                        atom of proof that humanity existed within a radius of many miles. Growing
                        calmer, he scanned the wonderful scene closely, intently, hoping to discover
                        the faintest trace of aught save vegetable life, all without reward. He was
                        about to begin the descent when a faint cry came to him from far below.
                        Clinging to the edge of the topmost rock, he looked downward.
                    Lady Tennys was pointing excitedly toward the little bay on his left. A
                        single glance in that direction filled him with amazement, then
                        consternation. Recklessly he entered upon the descent. Obstacles that had
                        seemed impassable as he thought of them on the summit were passed safely and
                        hurriedly.
                    How he reached her side so quickly, he could not have explained if he tried,
                        but in less than five minutes he stood with her, clasping her hand and
                        looking anxiously toward the sands on which the great back of the turtle lay
                        upward to the sun.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    GODS FROM THE SEA
                    DRAWN up to the beach were three long canoes, near which
                        were nearly a score of brown-skinned, almost wholly naked savages, with
                        spears, shields and war clubs. They were excitedly inspecting the footprints
                        in the sand. Hugh and Lady Tennys looked down upon this startling picture in
                        speechless concern.
                    "Where did they come from?" whispered he.
                    "I did not see them until they were beaching the boats,"
                        replied his white-faced companion. "Do you think they have seen
                        us?"
                    "Hardly, but they will begin a search at once. See, they are now
                        starting to follow those tracks. By Heaven, they'll find us, and
                        what chance have we against them? Good Lord, this pocket knife is worse than
                        nothing. We must hide,and quickly, too."
                    "Where can we go, Hugh? Where can we go?" she cried,
                        panic-stricken.
                    "We must climb up among the crags and lie down. They can't
                        see us there, and they certainly can't track us over that stone
                        plateau. Quick! We have no time to lose."
                    He fairly pushed her ahead of him, up to the row  of sharp, jutting stones. In an instant they were completely obscured
                        from view.
                    "I'd rather leap off this rock into the sea than be
                        captured by those horrible things," she half sobbed.
                        "Hugh, do you think they would eat us?"
                    "The Lord knows. I can see them down there holding a consultation.
                        Move over here and you can see the whole valley. Don't be afraid;
                        they can't see us." She moved over timidly. Crouching side
                        by side they watched the operations below. The visitors, evidently mystified
                        by the footprints, were huddled together, gesticulating wildly. They ran
                        hither and thither like so many ants, minutely examining the mysterious
                        tracks. After a long time Hugh gave vent to an exclamation.
                    "By George! I know what's the matter. They can't
                        understand the prints of our shoes. Our naked footprints are clear enough to
                        them, but I'll bet my soul they've never seen an
                        impression made by a shoe. They are your and my footprints, you know, with
                        and without shoes."
                    "Mine? Why, Hugh Ridgeway, Ineveroh, I never thought!" she
                        exclaimed, deeply embarrassed after her first expression of wonder and
                        incredulity. Then she leaned forward and strained her eyes as if expecting
                        to see the slender little bottoms of her feet in the tell-tale sand. At that
                        moment the brown band divided into squads, a half dozen coming toward the
                        mountain, the others remaining with the boats.
                    "They are after us, Tennys. I have no weapon but  this club, but I will use it as long as I can
                        stand. I'll protect you to the last. If they kill me, the only
                        thing left for you to do is to crawl to the ledge over there and jump off.
                        We must not be taken."
                    She felt a strange sense of confidence and security in the broad back of the
                        man beside her. His jaw was set. His cheeks pale, his eyes burning with the
                        intensity that thrilled his whole being. The strong white hand clutched the
                        club fiercely. He was no longer the light-hearted, inconsequent youth she
                        had known on board the ship.
                    The brown figures came into sight again, flitting here and there, pausing in
                        wonder beside the stone table, inspecting the cracked nuts critically, and
                        closely examining the ground on all sides. At last four or five of them sped
                        up the ledge to the cave.
                    "They have found our hotel," said Hugh grimly. She gulped
                        and could do no more than nod.
                    A tall fellow with a long spear and a huge shield, stripped to the loins,
                        about which was a white cloth, ventured up the slope. Suddenly he halted and
                        called his companions to his side. He had found a footprint in a bit of sand
                        on the rocky surface. Without more ado the squad scattered and began the
                        ascent, each man eyeing the ground eagerly. Occasionally those nearest the
                        centre would pause and point to a track. "The good Lord help
                        us!" murmured Ridgeway.
                    Both were fascinated by the approach of the savages. It was not until they
                        were within a hundred feet of  them that Hugh
                        bethought himself and drew her back, entirely out of sight. At least, he
                        thought she could not be seen, but he was mistaken. A portion of her white
                        dress protruded, and a triumphant yell announced the fact that it had met
                        the eyes of a searcher. Wondering what had caused the sudden yell, Hugh
                        peered around the corner of the rock, and to his dismay found the whole band
                        staring at their hiding place.
                    "They have seen us," he cried. "Remember, Tennys,
                        what I told you. It's probably a case of fight on my part. Let
                        'em come, spears and all!" He stood erect, his eyes
                        flashing with excitement and eagerness. Taking a few steps to one side, he
                        stood in full view of the searchers, glaring down upon them defiantly, his
                        club in his rigid right hand. He expected a shower of spears. To his utter
                        amazement, however, the fierce-looking warriors, open mouthed and apparently
                        terror-stricken, slunk backward, huddling together, all the time staring at
                        him with bulging eyes. His first thought was that they were surprised to
                        find him so bold, but the next act on their part caused him to gasp with
                        wonder.
                    With one accord the entire band cast weapons aside and fell face downward,
                        beating their heads against the rock, just as he had seen Arabians and
                        Nubians perform in saluting some mighty potentate. The brown backs remained
                        in that position for a full minute before he could call his trembling
                        companion to his side.
                    
                    "What does it mean?" whispered she at last. "Are
                        they dead?"
                    "They are really there, then? By George, I thought I was dreaming.
                        Tennys, they are actually doing us homage."
                    "Then they are harmless," she cried joyously.
                    "I believe I could go down and cut off their ears without hearing a
                        protest."
                    "But you won't, will you?"
                    "It would be barbarous, totally uncalled for, I'm sure. I
                        can't understand their warlike appearance, though. Those fellows
                        look as ii they were out for blood."
                    "Perhaps they are at war with some other tribe and not with the
                        white people. My husLord Huntingford says they fight among themselves
                        incessantly."
                    "That's it. It is a band of foragers, no doubt. But what
                        are we going to do about it?" Hugh was nonplussed. The brown backs
                        and bobbing heads still stretched before them in almost comical
                        humbleness.
                    "It may be a trick."
                    "It stands us in hand to remain where we are until we know what they
                        intend to do next."
                    "I hope they'll get up and go away."
                    "I guess I'll yell down and ask them what they
                        want."
                    "I wouldn't, Hugh," she entreated. "If we
                        leave them alone, they may go away presently." He looked at her and
                        laughed, for he was growing less uneasy with each passing moment.
                    "Hey, there!" he yelled. "How are
                        you?"
                    
                    
                        "`HEY, THERE!" HE YELLED, `HOW ARE
                            YOU?'"
                    
                    
                    
                    Slowly the head-bobbing ceased and dark faces were lifted toward the
                        elevation. For the first time the newcomers saw the beautiful face of Lady
                        Tennyson. They struggled to their feet, the tall chief stepping forward with
                        outstretched arms. Then in some wild gibberish he began to speak, half to
                        the white witnesses, half to the sky and sun.
                    "What the dickens is he talking about?" murmured the
                        mystified American. "Perhaps he's asking us to
                        surrender."
                    "He is either appealing to the sun or praying to the sky,"
                        said his companion.
                    "I have it!" cried Hugh. "He thinks we are
                        angels." Despite the gravity of the moment she giggled
                        delightedly.
                    "Then we may as well sit down and await developments," she
                        said a moment later, as they observed the whole band go face downward on the
                        sand againall save the chief. The white people seated themselves on the
                        ledge and watched the impassioned jabberer. Presently the prostrate figures
                        arose and in mute submission spread forth their arms and bent their heads,
                        standing like bronze statues in the glaring sunlight, all to the increased
                        astonishment of those who had expected to become victims of their
                        torture.
                    "This beats all I ever knew," exclaimed Ridgeway.
                        "It begins to look as though they are either friendly or afraid of
                        us. What shall we do?"
                    "I will follow you, Hugh, if you think it best to go down to them. I
                        do not believe they will harm us."
                    
                    "We will go down to them, but we must not let them think we are in
                        the least afraid of them."
                    With some anxiety and a decided feeling of insecurity they arose to take the
                        risk. Putting into use all the composure he could command, he deliberately
                        began the descent, turning to assist her Ladyship.
                    "They are on the ground again, bobbing worse than ever,"
                        she whispered, for his back was toward them. In a few minutes, after a
                        descent made more tortuous by the uncertainty of its ending, they found
                        themselves on a level with the huddled natives. Taking her hand in his left
                        and clutching his club nervously in his right, Hugh advanced slowly toward
                        the band. Every nerve in his body was quivering under the strain which his
                        apparent coolness cost. When within fifteen feet of the prostrate figures
                        they halted and Hugh cried out boldly:
                    "Get up!"
                    Instead of obeying the command instantly, the little band peeped slyly at the
                        strangers. Then they struggled to their feet, crowding into a bunch, the
                        picture of bewilderment.
                    "By George, they look at us as if they never had seen white people
                        before," said Hugh. With stately tread he approached the now
                        trembling, shrinking natives, holding his left hand aloft to signify
                        graciousness. Lady Tennys walked beside him, a smile playing on her
                        exceedingly pale face. "My good friends, be not afraid,"
                        said he. The brown men looked at each other in deeper wonder than
                        before.
                    
                    The leader, a perfect giant, stepped forward hesitatingly, fairly pushed on
                        by his comrades. In an awed voice he gave utterance to a most outlandish
                        rattle of sound, the like of which his hearers never had heard. In
                        conclusion he touched his mouth and ears and shook his head solemnly. Hugh,
                        taking the cue, repeated the performance.
                    "That signifies that we don't understand each other. He
                        sha'n't beat me on the sign language," he said.
                        "I believe this is a great time to work in something dramatic. We
                        can make a hit by simply going among them and laying our hands on their
                        heads. It will be graceful and fetching, I'm sure. First, I am
                        going to see if they are afraid of us." He suddenly threw up both
                        hands and cried "Boo!" in a loud tone. The eyes of the
                        watchers hung out and they jumped like so many mice at the sound. It was so
                        laughable that she was compelled to place her handkerchief over her mouth
                        and turn her head away. "I guess we've got 'em
                        pretty well paralyzed," grinned Hugh. Then he went among them,
                        placing his hands gently upon their woolly heads, Lady Tennys doing
                        likewise. The flesh of the savages fairly quivered at the touch, yet all
                        seemed delighted that the visitors had condescended to lay hands of kindness
                        upon them. They began to chatter and chant softly, all the time eyeing Hugh
                        and his companion with reverence.
                    "They don't seem to thaw out or show any signs of
                        friendship," said Hugh, very much puzzled. He and his companion
                        walked over to the shade of the rock  and
                        calmly sat down to await the next move. They now had no fear of harm at the
                        hands of the simple though savage-looking men, who watched them from a
                        distance jabbering excitedly.
                    "Hugh, I am firmly convinced that they have never seen white people
                        before. They don't know what we are."
                    For five minutes they sat and discussed possibilities and probabilities,
                        fully realizing that they were objects of awe to the savages. Finally the
                        tall one left the group and drew near the couple, approaching in fine
                        humility. When he was a dozen feet from them, they arose, extending friendly
                        hands toward him. He dropped to his knees and fairly ground his head upon
                        the rock. Then he arose and came directly to them. Hugh marvelled at his
                        size. Tremendous muscles, cords, knots and ridges stood out all over his
                        symmetrical body. He peered intently at the white man's flesh and
                        then dubiously at his own. When he turned his inspection to Tennys, his eyes
                        riveted themselves upon her clear white face, the most gorgeously beautiful
                        flower he ever had seen. He could not grasp the full glory of that dazzling
                        flower; he was stupefied, helpless before the blue eyes and dazzling smile.
                        In mute idolatry he at last lifted his puzzled gaze to the sun and then,
                        extending his great arms upward, uttered a few low, guttural appeals to the
                        King of the sky.
                    "He thinks we are from the sun," said she, keenly
                        ingenious.
                    
                    "This fellow really seems quite willing to worship us. The best we
                        can do for the present is to set ourselves up as idols. I think I can be a
                        very clever idol with precious little practice. You can be one without an
                        effort. Shall we set up a worship shop among these decidedly willing
                        subjects?"
                    "But, Hugh, if we go away from the coast we cannot hope to see a
                        white man again; these poor fellows are now, for the first time, looking
                        upon one. Should we not stay here?" she asked, full of fear and
                        perplexity.
                    "If a white man ever finds this land he will discover us. Besides,
                        we cannot live on this rock forever. It would only be a question of time
                        until we should starve or be killed by wild beasts. I am in favor of
                        retaining the very evident monopoly we have estabished in this land of
                        nowhere."
                    "But if they should prove treacherous?"
                    "There's no mistaking the honesty of their wonder. We are
                        real curiosities, and we have only to follow up the advantage to become
                        regular despots." He was enthused by the possibilities that
                        thronged his imagination.
                    "I will leave it all to you, Hugh. Do what you think best,"
                        she said softly and resumed her seat on the rock.
                    With his heart quickened by the inspiration in that trusting face, Hugh
                        boldly stepped to the side of the brown giant, deliberately taking his hand
                        to lead him to the edge of the precipice.
                    There, by signs and gesticulations, he endeavored to  tell him that they came from over the sea. From the awed
                        expression on the face of the savage he guessed that he had increased the
                        mystery. It was quite evident that his auditor now believed them to be from
                        the bottom of the sea instead of from the sun. To Hugh it mattered little as
                        long as he could have the wand of power over their heads. He delighted the
                        chief by making him understand that he and his companion would accompany
                        them in the boats. The word was conveyed to his warriors, and a wild chatter
                        of joy went up from among them. They fell upon their faces and groaned in
                        mighty discord.
                    Within a quarter of an hour the light bark canoes were speeding toward the
                        harbor mouth, big brown arms manning the paddles vigorously. Ridgeway and
                        Tennys sat facing each other in the foremost boat, the chief steering. Their
                        turtle shell was in another boat, and Hugh did not forget the good old spar
                        that lay on the beach below. Hour after hour passed, the oarsmen paddling
                        the same stroke, never tiring, never faltering. The passengers at last began
                        to lose interest in the gorgeous scenery along the coast they were skirting.
                        Where would this startling journey end? When would the indefatigable oarsmen
                        lay down their paddles to rest? When would they be able to procure food and
                        drink?
                    The sun was sinking toward the water line, the forest along the uneven coast
                        was merging into one vast green shadow, the waters were growing blacker and
                        blacker, and yet the row of canoes continued its  wearisome glide toward a seemingly unattainable end. Lady
                        Tennys became so tired and sleepy that her long lashes could not be
                        restrained from caressing her cheeks, nor could her dreamy eyes bear the
                        strain of wakefulness. Hugh, observing her fatigue, persuaded her to turn
                        about in the boat and lie back against his shoulder. Soon she was sleeping
                        soundly, her face protected from the dying sun by a readjustment of her
                        palm-leaf bonnet.
                    Ridgeway was beginning to fight against the effects of an ungovernable
                        drowsiness when the boat in which they sat suddenly turned toward the beach.
                        Long, powerful strokes sent the little craft whizzing in the new direction.
                        Just as the sun's last rays lost themselves in the night, the prow
                        glided upon the sand and the oarsmen sprang out to carry him and the fair
                        sleeper ashore.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    FLESH SUCCEEDS STONE
                    LADY TENNYS rubbed her eyes and stared
                        blankly about her when Hugh awoke her. The darkness and the strange forms
                        frightened her, but his reassuring words brought remembrance of the unique
                        trip and with it the dim realization that they had landed at last.
                    If their first landing place was wonderful, this was doubly so. Despite the
                        darkness, they were able to see quite distinctly the general outline of the
                        coast. Two mammoth rocks, as large apparently as the one they had left
                        behind, rose toward the hazy moonlit sky, far in shore, like twin sentinels,
                        black and forbidding. Between them a narrow stretch of sky could be seen,
                        with the moon just beyond. Entranced, they gazed upon the vivid yet gloomy
                        panorama bursting from the shades of night almost as if it were advancing
                        upon them. So immense, so startling, were these vast towering columns, so
                        brilliant was the sky behind them, that the wonder-struck strangers found
                        difficulty in controlling a desire to turn about and fly from the impending
                        rush of mountain, moon and sky. In the first moments of breathless
                        observation it seemed to them that the great rocks were moving toward  the sea and that the sky was falling with
                        them, giving the frightful impression that they were soon to be crushed in
                        the ponderous fall. They were exchanging expressions of relief when the big
                        chief came up and prostrated himself at their feet.
                    Ridgeway touched his shoulder and bade him arise, pointing toward the mounts
                        and their attendant glory. To his amazement the chief uttered an exclamation
                        of satisfaction and abruptly ran back to the boats. In an incredibly short
                        space of time the restless savages were coming up the beach with their
                        canoes on their shoulders, heading straight for the opening through which
                        the moonlight streamed. Two of them formed a "basket," and
                        Lady Tennys, taking her seat upon their hands, and holding timidly to their
                        hard, muscular shoulders, was borne swiftly onward and upward, Ridgeway
                        having some difficulty in keeping pace with the human carriage.
                    Big rocks told them that they were at the base of the rocky columns and the
                        course of the little band indicated that they were to pass between the
                        towering, almost perpendicular monsters. Suddenly the little cavalcade of
                        the night came to a halt, the boats were thrown down and Hugh arrived at the
                        conclusion that they were to stop until morning. In this he found himself
                        mistaken, for with the very next moment he heard the splashing of water,
                        seemingly beneath his feet. Up to now he had been looking upward at the rift
                        in the rocks. Instead of a rocky gorge he now saw  the shimmering of water, and a fresh exclamation of surprise
                        fell from his lips.
                    "Can this be fairyland?" he cried, completely dazed.
                    "We must be dreaming, Hugh," murmured she. The party stood
                        at the water's edge, looking up through the miniature caon, the
                        rushing of distant rapids coming to their ears.
                    The boats were lowered, and the oarsmen were soon pulling sturdily between
                        the tall twins. These frowning monsters formed a perfect gateway from the
                        sea to the home of the savages. Hugh felt that he was shut off forever from
                        the outside world as he surveyed, with sinking heart, the portals through
                        which they had passed. Soon a second landing was made, this time upon soft,
                        rich soil, instead of crunching sand. It was easy to tell that they were
                        standing on velvety grass, soft, cool and dewy. The boats were made fast,
                        the spar and shell were swung upon broad shoulders, and then the party
                        plunged straight into the wood, Lady Tennys being carried as before.
                    After ten minutes of rapid walking over a well-beaten trail the band halted,
                        and the chief uttered several piercing cries. From afar off in the still
                        night came an echoing answer and again the march was resumed, the travellers
                        keeping close to the bank of the river. In time they reached an open
                        stretch, across which the escort started, turning away from the stream.
                    There were fitful flashes of light ahead. Across the little plain came a
                        jumble of flying human beings, two or three bearing torches. They seemed to
                        have sprung  from the ground, so abruptly did
                        they appear before the eyes of the dumbfounded strangers in this strange
                        land. The chief went forward rapidly and checked the advancing figures,
                        preparing them for what was to follow. The entire company prostrated itself
                        in good form.
                    With the horde of stupefied recruits at their heels, the white people at
                        length entered the village, which nestled against the hillside. Hundreds of
                        dark, almost naked, savages rushed from the shadows, the news of the great
                        visitation having spread like wildfire. By the time the halt was made in
                        front of a large, oddlooking structure, her Ladyship was so overcome with
                        excitement that she could hardly stand. Ridgeway caught her as she staggered
                        from her improvised litter. Presently she grew stronger, and with her
                        companion entered what was apparently a palace among the squat, queerly
                        built houses.
                    The chief ordered torches stuck in the ground, and a bright, strong light
                        filled the interior. They found themselves in a large apartment, twenty by
                        thirty feet in size. A reed or grass roof provided covering. This roof, like
                        those in civilized lands, ran to a high point in the centre, the sides being
                        fully twelve feet from the ground. There were no windows in the walls, but
                        as they did not come within three feet of the roof, there was ample
                        provision for ventilation and light. The entrance to this structure was
                        through wide portals, reaching from ground to eaves. There was no floor save
                        the earth, but there were rugs  made from the
                        skins of wild animals. Hugh noticed with a thrill of excitement that among
                        them were tiger and leopard skins. Directly opposite the entrance stood a
                        rough and peculiarly hewn stone, resembling in a general way the form of a
                        man, colossal, diabolical.
                    "An idol," whispered Lady Tennys in awed tones.
                    "Perhaps it would be wisdom on our part to kneel before the
                        thing," said Hugh calculatingly.
                    "I'll do anything you think best," she said
                        reluctantly, kneeling for a moment with him before the idol. Whereupon the
                        chief and his attendants shouted for joy and fell upon their much-used
                        faces. The populace, thronging about the temple, took up the cry, and all
                        night long they chanted praise to the living gods. The weird, ghastly
                        figures flitted from end to end of the mad village long after the chief and
                        his party had left the temple to the sole possession of the new
                        divinities.
                    "I wonder if they expect us to sit up forever as sedately as that
                        old party over there," mused Hugh, after the savages had withdrawn,
                        greatly to the mystification of their guests. "We're
                        evidently left here to make the best of it. I fancy we are now supposed to
                        be in business as real gods with a steady job in the temple."
                    "I am beginning to think we have come to a terrible place, Hugh. How
                        fierce and wild these people are! What is to become of us?" asked
                        she, shivering as with a chill. "How horrible it would be if they
                        brought us  here as a sacrifice to this
                        beastly idol. Is there no way of escape?"
                    "Nonsense! We've queered this antiquated old fossil
                        forever. Two real live gods are worth ten thousand stone quarries like that.
                        If you say so, I'll have a few of his worshippers take him down and
                        toss him in the river."
                    The big room was devoid of furniture save for the rugs and several blocks of
                        stone grouped about the idol. Ridgeway was convinced that they were in the
                        sacred place of worship. Seating themselves rather sacrilegiously upon the
                        stone blocks, they looked about the place with tired, hopeless eyes. The
                        walls were hung with spears, war clubs and other ferocious weapons,
                        evidently the implements of defence to be used by the stone deity in case of
                        emergency.
                    "Well," quoth Hugh, after the gloomy inspection,
                        "they must think that gods don't sleep. I don't
                        see anything that looks like a berth around here. God or no god, I am going
                        to turn in somewhere for the night. His Reverence may be disturbed if I
                        snore, but I dare say his kick won't amount to much. I'll
                        pile some of these skins over in that corner for you and then I'll
                        build a nest for myself near the door." Suiting the action to the
                        word, he proceeded to make a soft couch for her. She sat by and watched him
                        with troubled eyes.
                    "Do you think it safe to go to sleep when we don't know
                        what they may do during the night? They may pounce upon us and kill
                        us." Hugh paused in his work and walked to her side.
                    
                    "Something tells me we are safe with these people. We may as well
                        make the best of it, anyhow. We are in for it, and I'll bet my soul
                        we come out all right. Go over there and sleep. I'll be the first
                        one killed if they attempt violence. Here's a club that will down a
                        few of them before they get the best of me." He took from the wall
                        a great murderous-looking club and swung it about his head.
                    "I want to be killed first, Hugh, if it comes to that. If you are
                        merciful, you will kill me yourself when you see that it is their intention
                        to do so," she said earnestly.
                    "Pooh, there's no danger," he said, and went back
                        to his work, impressed by her manner more than he cared to admit. With her
                        chin in her hands she resignedly watched him complete her bed of tiger
                        skins.
                    "We have desecrated the temple by disturbing the rugs," she
                        said at length.
                    "I'll have 'em make some hammocks for us to-morrow
                        and we'll hang 'em in each end of the temple. And
                        we'll also have this place divided into two or three apartments,
                        say two sleeping rooms and a parlor, perhaps a kitchen. If necessary, an
                        addition can be stuck on just back of where the idol stands.
                        There'll be great doings around here when Yankee progress takes
                        hold."
                    "You surely do not mean to ruin their temple! They will be up in
                        arms, Hugh."
                    "Well, they'll have to endure a great many things if they
                        expect to support such luxuries as we are. If 
                        those fellows don't quit falling down and bumping their faces on
                        the ground, I'm going to have a lot of pads made for them to wear
                        when they think there is danger of meeting us. They'll wear their
                        faces out." It did him good to hear her laugh. "Well, your
                        bed is ready, my Lady."
                    "I am dying for a drink of water. Do you know how long it has been
                        since we touched food and drink?"
                    "All day! I never thought of it until this minute. I am half
                        famished myself," he cried in dismay. Then he rushed to the door
                        and shouted to some natives who were standing near by eyeing the crude
                        building inquisitively by the light of a single torch. "Hey! you
                        fellows!"
                    At the sight of his white figure and the sound of his voice, torch and all
                        fell to the ground.
                    "Get up, you blamed fools," called the white man, walking
                        toward them in exasperation. They arose tremblingly as he drew near, and he
                        managed by signs to make them understand that he wanted food and drink. Away
                        they dashed, and he re-entered the temple. Lady Tennys was laughing.
                    "What are you laughing at?" he asked in surprise.
                    "It was so funny to hear you call them fools."
                    "I hope they understood me. Anyhow, they've gone for the
                        fatted cocoanut or something equally as oriental."
                    In less time than seemed possible the happy messengers arrived at the door
                        with food enough for  a dozen hungry people.
                        The giant chief followed his subjects, and it was through his hands that
                        Hugh received the welcome food. The white people were gratified to find in
                        the assortment rich bananas and oranges, raw meat, peculiar shell fish,
                        berries and vegetables resembling the tomato. At first the natives looked a
                        little dismayed over the disordered condition of the temple, but no sign of
                        resentment appeared, much to the relief of Lady Tennys. The luscious
                        offerings were placed on one of the stone blocks as fast as they were handed
                        to Ridgeway, the natives looking on in feeble consternation.
                    The chief was the only one to enter the temple, and he started to prostrate
                        himself before the stone idol. He appeared to be at a loss as to what course
                        he should pursue. Hugh promptly relieved him. Shaking his head vigorously,
                        he pointed to the stone image, signifying that there were to be no more
                        salutations bestowed upon it, all homage being due to himself and the lady.
                        The fickle pagan, after a waning look of love for their renounced idol,
                        proceeded to treat it with scorn by devoting himself entirely to the
                        usurpers. He brought cocoanut shells filled with cool water, and the thirsty
                        ones drank.
                    "We seem to have got here in the fruit, fish, vegetable and novelty
                        season, to say the least," observed Hugh.
                    "Isn't it wonderful?" was all she could say, her
                        eyes sparkling. Never had he seen her so ravishingly beautiful as now,
                        filled as she was with the mingled emotions 
                        of fear, excitement, interest, even of rapture. He could not prevent or
                        subdue the thrill of indescribable joy which grew out of the selfish thought
                        that he had saved her and that she must lean upon him solely for protection
                        in this wild land. Turning sharply from her, he glanced at the tempting
                        feast and unceremoniously dismissed the chief and his followers. The big
                        savage stood undecided for a moment in the centre of the room, wavering
                        between fear of the new god's displeasure and an evident desire to
                        perform some service.
                    After an instant he boldly strode to a stone block back of and to the left of
                        the image. Seizing it by the top, he gave the impression that he was about
                        to lift the great stone. Instead, however, he merely slid from its position
                        a thin slab, pushing it half way off of its square base. Instantly the sound
                        of rushing water filled the ear, and the unaccountable, muffled roar that
                        had puzzled them was half explained. The block was hollow, revealing a deep,
                        black hole, out of which poured the sound of the hidden stream. The
                        mystified observers could plainly see the water some ten feet below the
                        surface of the earth, gliding swiftly off through a subterranean passage.
                        The chief made them understand that this well was for the purpose of
                        supplying the image with drinking water whenever he needed it.
                    "That's very interesting," said Hugh to Tennys.
                        "I'll have to see where this water comes from to-morrow.
                        From a practical point of view it is the finest  bit of natural sewerage I ever have seen. I'll make arrangements
                        to tap it, if we are to live here."
                    "You lawless Americans!"
                    Apparently satisfied, the chief and his staring companions withdrew, devoutly
                        prostrating themselves not to the graven image, but to the living, breathing
                        beings who were awaiting, with an ungodlike appetite, an opportunity to make
                        way with the tempting fruit.
                    "It is ridiculous to allow those poor things to fall down like that
                        every time they turn around before us," she said, when they were
                        alone.
                    "We must encourage it. If we are to be idols we can't
                        afford to give our subjects a bit of relief from their religious
                        obligations, and I'm quite sure we are idols or sovereigns, more
                        than likely the former, judging by the snubbing our flinty friend has
                        received."
                    "If we are to live among these people, Hugh Ridgeway, I, for one,
                        intend to tell them, if possible, of the real God, and to do what I can for
                        a cause I served but feebly in the past. I may be a poor missionary, but I
                        intend to try in my weak way to do some good among these poor, benighted
                        creatures."
                    "I think we'd better let well enough alone," said
                        he disparagingly.
                    "Why, Hugh, how can you say that?"
                    "I haven't thought very much about God since I've
                        been in this land. I've been too busy," he muttered, with
                        no little shame in his face, although he assumed an air of indifference.
                    "He saved us from the sea," she said simply, with  a tremor in her voice. "Surely you
                        remember the prayers you uttered from your very soul on that night. Were
                        they not to God?"
                    "Begin your missionary work with me, Tennys. I am worse than the
                        savages," he said, not in answer to her question.
                    Silently and greedily they ate of the delicious fruit, and found new
                        sensations in the taste of more than one strange viand of nature. A calm
                        restfulness settled down upon their tired bodies, and all the world seemed
                        joyfully at peace with them.
                    Almost overcome by sleep, he managed to toss a few tiger skins on the ground
                        near the door, not forgetting to place his club beside the improvised couch.
                        "Sleep comfortably and don't be afraid," he said.
                        She slowly arose from the block and threw herself on the bed of skins.
                    "You are so good to me and so thoughtful," she murmured
                        sleepily. "Good-night!"
                    "Good-night," came his far away voice, as out of a
                        dream.
                    Outside, the celebration was at its height, but the tired idols heard not a
                        sound of the homage which was theirs that night.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    THE TRANSFORMATION BEGINS
                    WHEN Ridgeway opened his eyes, the sunlight was pouring in
                        upon him through the doorway. He looked at his watch, and was surprised to
                        find that it was nearly eleven o'clock. Lady Tennys still slept on
                        her couch of skins; the torches had burned to the ground; the grim idol
                        leered malignantly upon the intruders, and the dream that he had experienced
                        during the night was rudely dispelled. His eyes strayed again to the black,
                        glossy, confused hair of the sleeper in the far corner, and a feeling of
                        ineffable pity for her became companion to the sad wrenches that had grown
                        from the misery of his own unhappiness.
                    She was sleeping on her side, her face from him, her right arm beneath her
                        head, the dainty jewelled hand lying limply upon the spotted leopard skin.
                        The beautifully moulded figure, slight yet perfect, swelling to the
                        well-turned hip, tapering to the tip of the trim shoe which protruded from
                        beneath the rumpled skirt, affording a tiny glimpse of a tempting ankle, was
                        to him a most pathetic picture. As he was about to turn to the door, she
                        awakened with a start and a faint cry. Sitting half erect, she gave a
                        terrified, bewildered glance about her, her eyes at last falling upon
                        him.
                    
                    "Are you really here?" she cried, joy rushing to her eyes.
                        "I dreamed that you had fled and left me to be cut to pieces by the
                        savages."
                    "Dreams go by contraries, and I am, therefore, a very brave man. But
                        come, it is eleven o'clock. Let us see what this place looks like
                        in the sunlight."
                    Together they went to the wide entrance. A surprise awaited them in their
                        first view of the village by day. Along the base of the circular range of
                        hills stretched the small homes of the inhabitants, but, search as they
                        would, they could discover no signs of life. There was not a human form in
                        sight.
                    "What the devdickens does this mean?" exclaimed he.
                    "It seemed as if there were thousands of them here last
                        night," she cried.
                    "Maybe we have lost our worshippers. I wonder if we are to be the
                        sole possessors of this jungle metropolis?"
                    A mile away they could distinguish the banks of the river, running toward the
                        great stone gateway of this perfect Eden. The plain between the hills and
                        the river was like a green, annular piece of velvet, not over a mile in
                        diameter, skirted on all sides by tree-covered highlands. The river ran
                        directly through the centre of the basin, coming from the forest land to
                        their right.
                    In some trepidation they walked to the corner of the temple and surveyed the
                        hillside. Rising steeply from the low ground ran the green slope, at the top
                        of  which grew huge trees. The village lay at
                        the base of the hills and was over a mile long, a perfect semicircle of
                        strange little huts, stretched out in a single line, with the temple as its
                        central point.
                    "There is the beginning of our underground stream,"
                        exclaimed he, pointing up the elevation. A fierce little stream came
                        plunging from the very heart of the mound, half way to the summit, tearing
                        eagerly to the bottom, where it disappeared in the ground.
                    Suddenly the sound of distant shoutingor chanting, to be explicitand the
                        beating of drums came to their ears. They searched the hills and valley with
                        alarm and dread in their eyes, but there was no sign of humanity. For many
                        minutes the chanting continued, growing louder in volume as it drew nearer.
                        At last Lady Tennys uttered an exclamation and pointed toward an opening in
                        the ridge far to the left of the village. A string of natives came winding
                        slowly, solemnly from this cleftmen, women and children apparently without
                        end.
                    The white people stood like statues in the doorway, watching the approach of
                        the brown figures. There were fully two thousand in that singular
                        procession, at the head of which strode the big chief, with perhaps fifty
                        native women at his heels.
                    "His multiplied wife," observed Hugh sententiously.
                    "Do you think all of them are his wives?" said she,
                        doubtingly.
                    "It seems to be a heathen's choice to punish himself on
                        earth and avoid it in the hereafter."
                    
                    Behind the women came five men wearing long white robes and carrying
                        unusually long spears. They were followed by the rabble. At length the weird
                        cavalcade, marching straight across the plain, came to a halt not more than
                        a hundred feet from the entrance to the temple. The chief advanced a few
                        steps, pausing at the edge of a bare, white spot of ground some ten feet
                        square. Then, after a most reverential bow, he tossed a small reddish chunk
                        of wood into the white square. No sooner had the leader deposited his piece
                        of wood than forward came the women, the white-robed men, and then the
                        rag-tag of the population, each person tossing a piece upon the rapidly
                        growing heap. In silent amusement, Ridgeway and Lady Tennys watched this
                        strange ceremony.
                    "They've been visiting somebody's
                        woodpile," speculated Hugh.
                    "Perhaps they intend to roast us alive," ventured she.
                    The small army fell back from the pile of wood, the chief maintaining a
                        position several feet to the fore, a lad behind him bearing a lighted torch.
                        After many signs and presumably devout antics, one of the spearmen took the
                        torch and lighted this contribution from a combined populace. As the thin
                        column of smoke arose on the still, hot air, the vast crowd fell to the
                        ground as one person, arising almost instantly to begin the wildest, most
                        uncanny dance that mortal ever saw. The smoke and flames grew, the dry wood
                        crackled, the spearmen poked it with their long  weapons, and the vast brown audience went into a perfect frenzy of
                        fervor.
                    Not until the pile was reduced to ashes did the smoke dance cease. The
                        spearmen retired, and the big chief came forward with a tread so ludicrously
                        grand that they could scarce refrain from laughter. He carried two short
                        staffs in his hands, the heads of which were nothing less than the skulls of
                        infants. To the disgust of the white people the chief presented to each of
                        them a shudder-inspiring wand. Afterward they learned that the skull-tipped
                        staffs signified death to all who opposed their way. They also learned that
                        the red bits of wood that had gone up in the flame were stained by the blood
                        of a half dozen prisoners of war, executed the night before as a sacrifice
                        to the new gods.
                    The new monarchs accepted the sceptres gingerly and the wildest glee broke
                        loose in the waiting throng. While they danced and shouted, Hugh inwardly
                        cursed the ostentation that was delaying breakfast.
                    Impatiently he made the chief understand what was wanted, and that worthy
                        proved an excellent substitute for the genii. He rushed over and bawled a
                        few commands, and a dozen women and men sped away like the wind. A few
                        moments later the chief entered the temple and found Ridgeway calmly
                        measuring off the ground for the partitions that were to transform one room
                        into three.
                    So apt was the white man at sign making and so apt was the brown man at
                        understanding that before an  hour had passed
                        a dozen strong fellows were at work, carrying out the designs of the new
                        idol, the morning meal having been disposed of in the meantime. Using the
                        same kind of material that comprised the outer walls, a partition was
                        constructed lengthwise through the centre of the temple. The front half was
                        left as a reception hall and living room and the rear half was divided into
                        two apartments, each fifteen feet square. They were to serve as sleeping
                        rooms. These ruthless improvements made it necessary to remove the great
                        stone idol from his pedestal.
                    "Chuck him out into the backyard," said Hugh. That evening
                        the poor old image, as disgusted as a piece of rock could possibly be, was
                        carried to the river and tossed into the rapids, his successors standing
                        with the multitude on the high bank to witness his disappearance and to hear
                        his unhappy kerplunk! The waters closed over his unhallowed head and the new
                        dispensation began. Back across the little plain to the torch-lit village
                        swarmed the fickle, joyous savages.
                    "Good Lord," observed Hugh, "what a ferocious
                        crowd it is! They tear their enemies to pieces and yet we have them under
                        our thumbsfor the present at least."
                    "I believe they are naturally intelligent, and I'm sure we
                        can help them. Do you know what those white robes are made
                        from?"
                    "Certainly. Cotton."
                    "It is woven grass. They bleach it. The women do  the work down by the river, and the robes
                        worn by their spearmen are really beautiful pieces of fabric."
                    "I am going to leave my measure for a pair of white grass
                        trousers," said Hugh lightly, "and an umbrella,"
                        he added, looking up at the broiling sky.
                    Together the white usurpers planned many important improvements against the
                        probability of a long stay among the savages. A wonderful system of sewerage
                        was designedand afterward carried out faithfully. A huge bath pool was to be
                        sunk for Lady Tennys in the rear of her apartment; a kitchen and
                        cold-storage cellar were to grow off the west end of the temple and a
                        splendid awning was to be ordered for the front porch! Time and patience
                        were to give them all of these changes. Time was of less consequence than
                        patience, it may be well to add. The slaving retinue was willing but
                        ignorant.
                    The adoring chief gave Tennys a group of ten handmaidens before the day was
                        over, and Hugh had a constant body guard of twenty stalwartswhich he
                        prosaically turned into carpenters, stone-masons, errand boys and
                        hunters.
                    "You must not try to civilize them in a day," she smilingly
                        protested when he became particularly enthusiastic.
                    "Well, just see what we have done to-day," he cried.
                        "How can you account for the enforced abdication of old Uncle
                        Rocksy, the transformation of his palace into a commodious, three-room
                        lodging-house, and all such things, unless you admit that we are here to do
                             as we please? We'll make a
                        metropolitan place out of this hamlet in a year if we"
                    "A year! Oh, don't suggest such a possibility,"
                        she cried. "I'd die if I thought we were to be here for a
                        year."
                    "I hope we won't, but we may as well look the situation
                        straight in the face. There has been no white man here before us. It is by
                        the rarest chance in the world that we are here. Therefore, it may be years
                        before we are found and taken away from this undiscovered
                        paradise."
                    The flickering, fitful light of the torches stuck in the ground behind them
                        played upon two white faces from which had fled the zeal and fervor of the
                        moment before, leaving them drawn and dispirited.
                    "All our lives, perhaps," she murmured.
                    "With these savages as our only companions, worse than death a
                        thousand times," he groaned, starting to his feet with the
                        vehemence of new despair. "Could anything be worse than the
                        existence that lies before us?"
                    "Yes," she cried, arising, throwing back her shoulders and
                        arms, lifting her face and breathing long draughts of the cool, pure air.
                        "Yes! The existence that lies behind is worse than the one ahead.
                        No life can be worse than the one from which I have escaped. Welcome,
                        eternal solitude! Farewell, ambition, heartpangs and the vain mockery of
                        womanhood! To be free is heaven, no matter what the cost,
                        Hugh."
                    
                    "Do you mean that you would rather live here forever than go back to
                        the old life?"
                    "If I must stay here to be free, I am willing to live in this
                        miserable village to the very end, rejoicing and not
                        complaining."
                    "I never associated you with real unhappiness until you uttered that
                        last sentence."
                    "I should not be selfish, though," she said quickly.
                        "You are so unhappy, you have lost so much. We are to be alone here
                        in this land, Hugh, you and I, forever. I will prove to you that I am more
                        than the frail, helpless woman that circumstances may seem to have shaped
                        me, and you shall have from me all the aid and encouragement that a good,
                        true woman can give. Sometimes I shall be despondent and regretful,I
                        can't help it, I supposebut I shall try with you to make the
                        wilderness cheerful. Who knows but that we may be found by explorers within
                        a month. Let us talk about our new subjects out there on the plain. How many
                        of them are there in this village?"
                    She won him from the despondency into which he was sinking, and, be it said
                        to her credit, she did not allow him to feel from that time forth that she
                        was aught but brave, confident and sustaining. She was a weak woman, and she
                        knew that if once the strong man succumbed to despair she was worse than
                        helpless.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    NEDRA
                    THE next month passed much more quickly than any previous
                        month within the lives of the two castaways. Each day brought forth fresh
                        novelties, new sensations, interesting discoveries. Her courage was an
                        inspiration, a revelation to him. Despite the fact that their journeyings
                        carried them into thick jungles where wild beasts abounded, she displayed no
                        sign of fear. Jaunty, indifferent to danger, filled with an exhilaration
                        that bespoke the real love for adventure common among English women, she
                        traversed with him the forest land, the plains, the hills, the river, and,
                        lastly, the very heart of the jungle. They were seldom apart from the time
                        they arose in the morning until the hour when they separated at night to
                        retire to their apartments.
                    Exploration proved that they were on an island of considerable dimensions,
                        perhaps twenty miles long and nearly as wide. The only human inhabitants
                        were those in the village of Ridgehunt, as the new arrivals christened
                        it,combining the first syllables of their own names. From the tops of the
                        great gate posts, christened by Lady Tennys, far across the water to the
                        north, could be seen the shadowy outlines of another  other island. This was inhabited by a larger tribe than that
                        which constituted the population of Ridgehunt.
                    A deadly feud existed between the two tribes. There had been expeditions of
                        war in the past, and for months the fighting men of Ridgehunt had been
                        expecting an attack from the island of Oolooz. Nearly twenty miles of water
                        separated the two islands. The attacking force would have to cover that
                        distance in small craft. Shortly before the advent of the white people, King
                        Pootoo's men captured a small party of scouts who had stolen across
                        the main on a tour of exploration. They were put to death on the night of
                        the arrival in Ridgehunt. A traitor in their midst had betrayed the fact
                        that Oolooz contemplated a grand assault before many weeks had gone. Guards
                        stationed on the summits of the gate posts constantly watched the sea for
                        the approach of the great flotilla from Oolooz. King Pootoo had long been
                        preparing to resist the attack. There were at least five hundred able-bodied
                        men in his band, and Hugh could not but feel a thrill of admiration as he
                        looked upon the fierce, muscular warriors and their ugly weapons.
                    He set about to drill them in certain military tactics, and they, believing
                        him to be a god whom no enemy could overthrow, obeyed his slightest command.
                        Under his direction breastworks were thrown up along the western hills,
                        trenches were dug, and hundreds of huge boulders were carried to the summits
                        overlooking the pass, through which the enemy must come in order to  reach the only opening in the guerdon of the
                        hills. It was his plan to roll these boulders from the steep crests into the
                        narrow valley below just as the invaders charged through, wreaking not only
                        disaster but disorder among them, no matter how large their force. There was
                        really but one means of access by land to the rock-guarded region, and it
                        was here that he worked the hardest during the fourth week of their stay
                        among the savages.
                    He was working for his own and her safety and freedom. In Ridgehunt they were
                        idols; in the hands of the unknown foe their fate might be the cruel
                        reverse. Pride in the man who was to lead their brown friends to victory
                        swelled in the heart of the fair Briton, crowding back the occasional fear
                        that he might be conquered or slain. She had settled upon the course to
                        pursue in case there was a battle and her protector fell. A dagger made from
                        the iron-like wood used by the natives in the manufacture of spears and
                        knives hung on the wall of her room. When he died, so should she, by her own
                        hand.
                    Gradually they began to grasp the meaning of certain words in the native
                        language. Hugh was able after many days to decide that the natives knew
                        nothing of the outside world and, furthermore, that no ships came into that
                        part of the sea on account of the immense number of hidden reefs. The island
                        on which they had been cast bore a name which sounded so much like Nedra
                        that they spelled it in that way. In course of time she christened the spots
                        of interest about her.  Her list of good
                        English names for this utterly heathen community covered such places as
                        Velvet Valley, Hamilton Hills, Shadburn Rapids, Ridgeway River, Veath Forest
                        and others. Ridgeway gave name to the temple in which the natives paid
                        homage to them. He called it Tennys Court.
                    Her room in the remodelled temple was a source of great delight to Lady
                        Tennys. It was furnished luxuriously. There were couches, pillows, tables,
                        chairs, tiger-skin rugs, andwindow curtains. A door opened into her newly
                        constructed bath pool, and she had salt or fresh water, as she chose. The
                        pool was deep and clay lined and her women attendants were models of the
                        bath after a few days. She learned the language much easier than Hugh. He
                        was highly edified when she told him that his new name was Izornever uttered
                        without touching the head to the ground. Her name was also Izor, but she
                        blushed readily when he addressed her as Mrs. Izorwithout the grand curtsey.
                        The five spearmen were in reality priests, and they were called Mozzos. She
                        also learned that the chief who found them on the rock was no other than the
                        mighty King Pootoo and that he had fifty wives. She knew the names of her
                        women, of many children and of the leading men in the village.
                    The feeble sprout of Christianity was planted by this good British girl. It
                        had appeared to be a hopeless task, but she began at the beginning and
                        fought with Mercy as her lieutenant. Humanity was a stranger to these people
                        when she found them, but she  patiently sowed
                        the seeds and hoped. A people capable of such idolatry as these poor
                        wretches had shown themselves to be certainly could be led into almost any
                        path of worship, she argued.
                    Late in the afternoon of their thirty-third day on the island the white idol
                        of Nedra swung lazily in her hammock, which was stretched from post to post
                        beneath the awning. Two willowy maidens in simple brown were fanning her
                        with huge palm leaves. She was the personification of pretty indolence. Her
                        dreamy eyes were turned toward the river and there was a tender, eager
                        longing in their depths. Hugh was off in the hills with his workmen and the
                        hour had passed for him to emerge from the woodland on his way to the
                        village.
                    The shadows of night were beginning to settle upon the baking earth and a
                        certain uneasiness was entering her bosom. Then she caught a glimpse of his
                        figure in the distance. With his swarm of soldiers behind him he came from
                        the forest and across the narrow lowlands toward the river. He steadfastly
                        refused to be carried to and from the "fortifications" in
                        the rude litter that had been constructed for him, a duplicate of which had
                        been made for her. A native with a big white umbrella was constantly at his
                        side and King Pootoo was in personal command of the workmen as
                        "sub-boss." Ridgeway jocosely characterized his hundred
                        workmen as "Micks," and they had become expert wielders of
                        the wooden pick, shovel and crowbar. In the village there were the three
                        hundred  tired armorers who had worked all day
                        among the hard saplings in the country miles to the south. It was their duty
                        to make an inexhaustible supply of spears, swords, etc.
                    As the American came up over the bank of the river Lady Tennys could not
                        repress a smile of pride. The white grass trousers, the huge white hat, and
                        the jaunty military carriage had become so familiar to her that she could
                        almost feel his approach before he came into view. It was always the same
                        confident, aggressive stride, the walk of the master.
                    Although the sun had dropped behind the twin giants and the haze of the night
                        was on, Hugh's faithful attendant carried the umbrella over his
                        head. The new Izor said, more than once, that, having taught the fellow to
                        carry the protector, he could not unteach him. Were it darkest midnight the
                        umbrella was produced and carried with as much serenity as when the sun
                        broiled and toasted at midday. When the returning band of laborers was half
                        way across Velvet Valley, Tennys, as was her wont, left her hammock and went
                        forth to meet the man beneath the white sunshade. His pace quickened and his
                        face brightened as she drew near. The hatless, graceful figure in white came
                        up to him with the cry:
                    "Why are you so late? Dinner has been waiting for an
                        hour."
                    "Pshaw! And the cocoanuts are cold again," he cried with
                        mock concern. She took his arm and they trudged happily through the deep
                        grass on which the  never-failing dew was
                        already settling. "But we have finished the fortifications. By
                        George, if those Ooloozers get through that valley they'll be fit
                        to try conclusions with England and America combined. With four hundred men
                        I can defend the pass against four thousand. To-morrow I'll take
                        you over to see the defences. They're great, Tennys."
                    She dampened his enthusiasm somewhat.
                    "Won't it be an awful joke if the enemy doesn't
                        come?"
                    "Joke! It will be a calamity! I'd be tempted to organize a
                        fleet and go over after them. By the way, I have something fine for
                        you."
                    "A letter from home?" she cried laughingly. "One
                        would think so from the important way in which you announce it. What is
                        it?"
                    "A peta wonder of a pet," he said. "Hey!
                        Jing-a-ling, or whatever your name is, bring that thing up here." A
                        native came running up from the rear bearing in his arms a small, ugly cub,
                        its eyes scarcely opened. She gave vent to a little shriek and drew
                        back.
                    "Ugh! The horrid thing! What is it?"
                    "A baby leopard. He's to be our house cat."
                    "Never! I never saw an uglier creature in my life. What a ponderous
                        head, what mammoth feet, and what a miserably small body! Where are the
                        spots?"
                    "He gets 'em later, just as we get gray hairssign of old
                        age, you know. And he outgrows the exaggerated extremities. In a few months
                        he'll be the prettiest  thing you
                        ever saw. You must teach him to stand on his head, jump through a hoop, tell
                        fortunes and pick out the prettiest lady in the audience, and I'll
                        get you a position with a circus when we go to America. You'd be
                        known on the bills as the Royal Izor of the Foofops and her trained leopard,
                        the Only One in Captivity."
                    "You mean the only leopard, I presume," she smiled.
                    "Certainly not the only lady, for there are millions of them in that
                        state."
                    They had their dinner by torchlight and then took their customary stroll
                        through the village.
                    "There seems to be no one in the world but you and I," she
                        said, a sudden loneliness coming over her.
                    "What a paradise this would be for the lover who vows that very
                        thing to the girl he loves."
                    "Do lovers mean all that they say?" she asked
                        laughingly.
                    "Very few know just what they say until it is too late. A test on an
                        uncivilized island would bring reason to the doughtiest lover.
                        There's no sentiment in cold facts."
                    "I don't see why two people, if they loved as you say they
                        can love, should not be perfectly happy to live apart from the world. Do
                        they not live only for each other?"
                    "That's before the test, you see."
                    "I have not found existence on this island altogether
                        unendurable," she went on. "I am not in love, I'm
                        sure, yet I am surprised to find myself contented here  with you. Then why should not lovers find this a real
                        paradise, as you say?"
                    "Would you be contented here with any other man as your
                        companion?" he asked, his head suddenly, swimming.
                    "Oh, no!" she cried decisively. "I don't
                        believe I'd like it here with anybody but you. Now, don't
                        look like that! I'm not such a fool as you may be thinking, Hugh. I
                        know the world pretty well. I know how other people love, even though it has
                        never been part of my lot. I'm not quite a hypocrite. I was not
                        presented at court for nothing. You see, you are so good and we are such
                        friends. It never occurred to me before, but I'm sure I
                        couldn't endure being here with any other man I know.
                        Isn't it queer I never thought of that?" she asked, in
                        real wonder.
                    He looked at her steadily before answering. The flare of the torch revealed a
                        childlike sincerity in her face, and he knew she did not realize the
                        construction he might have been justified in according her impulsive
                        confession. His heart throbbed silently. A wave of tenderness welled within
                        him, bringing with it a longing to kiss the hem of her raiment, to touch her
                        soft, black hair, to whisper gently in her ear, to clasp her hand, to do
                        something fondly grateful.
                    "Are you quite sure of that?" he asked softly. She looked
                        up into his eyes honestly, frankly, unwaveringly, pressing his arm with a
                        smile of enthusiasm.
                    "Quite sure. Why not? Who could be better, more thoughtful, braver
                        than you, and for the sake of a  woman who, by
                        mistake, owes her life to you? When you have done so much for me, why should
                        I not say that you are the man I like best of all I know? It is strange,
                        perhaps, that it should make any particular difference, but it seems to me
                        no other man could inspire the feeling of resignation and contentment that
                        you do. Really, it isn't so hard to live in the wilderness, is
                        it?"
                    "Have you never known any one else with whom you could have been
                        contented here?" he asked persistently.
                    "Oh, I don't know what other men would be like if they were
                        in your place," she said. She appeared deeply thoughtful for some
                        time, as if trying to imagine others of her acquaintance in Hugh's
                        place. "I am sure I cannot imagine any one being just like
                        you," she went on, conclusively.
                    "No one you may have loved?"
                    "I have never loved anybody," she cried.
                    "Do you know what love means?"
                    "I haven't the faintest conception," she laughed,
                        mockingly.
                    "I believe you said that to me some time ago," he said.
                    "I wish I could love," she said lightly. "But I
                        suppose the chance is forever lost if I am doomed to stay on this island all
                        my life."
                    His smile was understood by the night.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    THE COMING OF THE ENEMY
                    A FEVER of queer emotions plagued Hugh's mind as
                        he sought sleep that night. He lay awake on his couch of skins for hours,
                        striving to put from himself the delightful conviction that had presented
                        itself so suddenly. Through all his efforts to convince himself that his
                        impressions were the result of self-conceit or a too willing egotism, there
                        persistently ran the tantalizing memory of her simple confession. When at
                        last he slept it was to dream that a gentle hand was caressing his forehead
                        and loving fingers were running through his hair. For a while the hand was
                        Grace Vernon's, then it was Tennys Huntingford's, then
                        Grace's, then the other's. Its touch brought a curve to
                        his lips.
                    While he lay awake in these wondering hours and slept through the changing
                        dream, the cause of his mingled emotions lay in the next apartment,
                        peacefully asleep from the moment her head touched the pillow, totally
                        unconscious of the minutest change in her heart or in their relationship, as
                        contented as the night about her.
                    The next morning he was speculatively quiet and she was brightly talkative as
                        they ate breakfast. He  was awake when she
                        took her refreshing plunge in the pool, and heard her conversing learnedly
                        with her attendants, as if they understood all that she said-which they did
                        not. It was then that he thought what a solitude life would be if she were
                        not a part of it. There was nothing in her manner to indicate that she
                        remembered their conversation of the night before. In fact, it was apparent
                        that she was wholly unconscious of the impression it had made.
                    Two of her white-robed attendants stood in the doorway while they ate,
                        another industriously fanning them. The flowing white robes were innovations
                        of the past few days, and their wearers were pictures of expressive
                        resignation. Robes had been worn only by Mozzos prior to the revolution of
                        customs inaugurated by the white Izor, and there was woeful tripping of
                        brown feminine feet over treacherous folds.
                    "Those ghastly gowns remind me that this is the day for our flag
                        raising," said he. "I guess the banner is strong enough to
                        stand the winds that whistle around the tops of the gateposts,
                        isn't it?"
                    Her thoughts reverted to the white signal that floated from the summit of the
                        big mount at whose base they had been cast up from the sea. Hugh, having
                        completed the meal, went to the end of the room, where, stretched along the
                        wall, hung a huge American flag. Days had been consumed by the women in the
                        manufacture of this piece of woven grass. He had created red stripes from an
                        indelible berry stain. A blue background for the stars was ingeniously  formed by cutting out spaces through which
                        the sky could gleam. A strong pole lay on the floor and all was in readiness
                        for the raising of the Stars and Stripes over the Island of Nedra. Their
                        hope was that it might eventually meet the eye of some passing
                        navigator.
                    "By the way, Hugh," she said, standing beside him, a trace
                        of antagonism in her voice, "who discovered this island, a Briton
                        or an American?"
                    "Why I-an American, of course! Great Scott! I-I certainly did,
                        didn't I?" he exclaimed, aghast, gradually comprehending
                        that she had a moral claim, at least.
                    "That is the question," she said simply.
                    He walked over and sat down rather heavily on one of the stone blocks.
                    "I saw it from the sea," he stammered.
                    "And so did I."
                    For some moments he sat gazing at the flag, actual distress in his eyes. She
                        looked away and smiled faintly.
                    "I didn't think, Tennys; truly I did not. You have as much
                        right to claim the discovery as I. Why have you not spoken of this
                        before?"
                    "You seemed so happy over the flag that I couldn't,
                        Hugh," she said, still looking away.
                    "Poor old flag! It's the first time you ever tried to wave
                        dishonestly or where there was a doubt of your supremacy." He came
                        to her side. "We'll have no flag raising."
                    
                    "What!" she cried, strangely disappointed.
                    "Not until we have made a British flag to wave beside this
                        one."
                    "I was jesting, Hugh, just to see what you would say. The flag shall
                        go up. You-you are the master, as you should be, Hugh."
                    "You have as much right as I," he protested.
                    "Then I'll be an American," she cried.
                        "We'll raise our flag."
                    "But you are not an American."
                    "Granting that I was the first to see the island, was I not under
                        protection of an American? I have been under American protection ever since.
                        What has Great Britain to do with the situation? I demand the protection of
                        the Stars and Stripes. Will you deny me?" Her eyes were sparkling
                        eagerly. "Could the British have landed had it not been for the
                        American?"
                    "You really don't care?"
                    "This is our flag, Hugh," she said seriously. "It
                        will make me unhappy if you continue to take my jest as an earnest. We made
                        it and I shall be proud to have it wave over me."
                    A few hours later the Stars and Stripes floated high over a new island of the
                        sea, far from the land of its birth.
                    "How good and grand it looks," she cried as they saw it
                        straighten to the breeze. "After all, it may be waving over its
                        own, Hugh. The United States bought several thousands of islands in this
                        section of  the world, I've
                        heard," she added, with a touch of irony.
                    "It's the flag I love," he cried. "May
                        God let me kiss once more the soil she calls home. Dear
                        America!"
                    From that day he never looked at the dancing, wriggling stripes without a
                        surge of emotion. Its every flaunt seemed to beckon brave worshippers from
                        far across the sea to the forlorn island on which it was patiently
                        waving.
                    An uneventful week passed. A Nedrite who had escaped from the Island of
                        Oolooz brought word to King Pootoo that the enemy was completing preparation
                        for a stupendous assault, but a close watch on the sea failed to reveal
                        signs of the approach. Ridgeway and his eager followers were fully prepared
                        for the assault. The prospect was now assuming the appearance of a European
                        war cloud-all talk and no fight. But as King Pootoo insisted in vague
                        earnestness that the informer was trustworthy, precautionary measures were
                        not relaxed at any time. Hugh was now the possessor of a heavy sword made of
                        the metallic-like wood. It had two edges and resembled an oldfashioned
                        broadsword.
                    "I feel like a Saumeri," he announced.
                    When he found that fairly sharp blades could be wrought from this timber, he
                        had knives and hatchets made for private use, his own trusty pocket knife
                        being glorified by promotion. He whetted the blade to the keenest possible
                        edge and used it as a razor.  Tennys compelled
                        him to seek a secluded spot for his, weekly shave, decreeing that the morals
                        of the natives should not be ruined in their infancy by an opportunity to
                        acquire first-class, fully developed American profanity.
                    Many of their evenings, delightfully cool in contrast with the intense heat
                        of the day, were spent on the river. The largest canoe of the village was
                        fitted out with a broad, comfortable seat in the stern, upon which it was
                        possible to recline lazily while several strong-armed natives paddled the
                        craft through the shimmering, moonlit waters above the rapids.
                    One evening, a month after the raising of the flag, they came from the river,
                        the night having been the most perfect they had seen, dark, sombre,
                        picturesque. The moon was hidden behind the banks of clouds, which foretold
                        the coming of rain, yet there was a soft, exquisite glow on land and water,
                        as if blueblack tints were being cast from aloft by some mysterious,
                        experimenting artist among the gods. It had been a quiet, dreamy hour for
                        both. As they walked slowly across the little plain, followed by the
                        oarsmen, they became cognizant of an extraordinary commotion in the village.
                        Pootoo and a dozen men came running toward them excitedly.
                    "What's up, I wonder?" cried Hugh.
                    "It is the enemy. I know they have been sighted," she
                        exclaimed breathlessly.
                    And she was right. Just before sunset the guard  at the top of the gatepost had sighted the canoes of the invaders, far to
                        the north. According to the king, to whom the flying messenger had come,
                        there were myriads of canoes and they were headed for a part of the beach
                        about three leagues north of the village. It was the best place for landing
                        along the entire coast and was, besides, the point nearest the home of the
                        coming foe. It was evident that the enemy had miscalculated. They came
                        within eye range of the island before darkness set in. A half an hour later
                        and it would have been impossible to discern the boats in the gloom. By
                        merest chance their arrival was betrayed.
                    "Thank God, they can't surprise us," cried Hugh
                        after he had learned all. He was mad with excitement, burning with eagerness
                        for the fray.
                    The possibility of defeat did not enter his head, so sure was he that he and
                        his warriors could overthrow the invaders. His brain was filled with the
                        hope that he might some day tell the story of this battle to the fellows at
                        his club in Chicago. He could imagine himself sitting with his heels on the
                        window seat, relating to envious listeners the details of the fight in the
                        pass, the repulsing of the enemy, the chase to the shore, the annihilation
                        and-but no time was to be lost in dreaming of the future when the imperative
                        present demanded so much of him.
                    At his side hurried the distressed, trembling young Englishwoman, her heart
                        almost paralyzed with fear. Two or three times she tried to speak to him;
                        once  she timidly, though frantically, sought
                        to grasp his hand to stay him in his excited rush toward the temple. Up to
                        this moment she had been brave, even confident; now a weakness assailed her
                        and every vestige of courage was gone. But one thought filled her mind: the
                        possibility of disaster befalling Hugh Ridgeway.
                    They reached the temple and he dashed inside, going direct to his room, where
                        the sword and daggers hung. She sank weakly upon one of the big blocks in
                        the long corridor, leaning her head against the partition, breathing
                        heavily, hopelessly. He, unconscious of the pain she was suffering, began to
                        whistle joyously as he bustled about.
                    "Tennys," he called, "do you know what has become
                        of my shield?"
                    "It is out here," she answered shrilly, her voice pitched
                        high with the tension imposed. He came forth, tossing his sword on the
                        ground at her feet, hastily taking the shield from a peg in the wall.
                    "Say, we won't see a live Ooloozer for a hundred years
                        after the fight," he exploded exuberantly. "Is my army out
                        there in front?"
                    "Hugh," she said piteously, following him about in the
                        hall, "it isn't necessary for you to accompany
                        them."
                    "Oh, great Scott! I wouldn't miss it for a million.
                        I'm the biggest pig in the puddle," stopping to look at
                        her in amazement.
                    
                    "But it isn't your-our war, Hugh. Why do you risk so much?
                        They may kill you and then-then what will become of me?"
                    In an instant his hilarity subsided and deep solicitude came in its stead,
                        every particle of tenderness in his heart asserting itself in response to
                        the rueful appeal. There was a queer rushing of blood to his head, a
                        dizziness, a great thrumming against the drums of his ears, from all of
                        which sprung, like lightning, the remembrance of his suspicions concerning
                        her feelings toward him.
                    "You are not worried, are you? Why, there's no danger, not
                        the slightest. We've got them whipped before the fight. I
                        didn't think you'd lose courage. You've been so
                        brave and confident all the time." He took her hands in his own and
                        looked tenderly down into the wavering eyes of blue.
                    "It is dreadful, Hugh. I never knew how dreadful until now. I cannot
                        bear to see you go out there tonight, perhaps never to come back. I shall
                        die if you go!"
                    "But I must go, Tennys," he said firmly.
                        "I'd rather die than be a coward. Your fears are utterly
                        ridiculous."
                    His rather petulant speech caused her to withdraw her hands, her wide eyes
                        sending a glance of wounded pride up into his. That look of reproach haunted
                        him the whole night long. Even in the next moment he sought to withdraw the
                        unintentional sting from his words by the gentle reminder that  he would come back to her a victor and that
                        she would be proud of him. Still the hurt eyes looked into his.
                    "I-I did not mean to interfere, Hugh. You must pay no attention to
                        me. I was selfish and absurdly afraid," she said, a trace of
                        coldness in her voice, her manner entirely altered.
                    "Any woman might well be afraid at such a time," he said
                        quickly.
                    "I am not afraid for myself. It is not the kind of cowardice you
                        think it is."
                    "You just now wondered what would become of you if I were
                        killed," he ventured.
                    "I know what will become of me if the worst should come. But I must
                        not keep you standing here. There is much for you to do and much for me to
                        do. You shall never again say that I am not brave. Go and fight, Hugh, and
                        when you bring home the wounded I shall have a place to care for them
                        all." All this was spoken rapidly and in high-pitched tones. He
                        moved slowly toward the door, not knowing what to say or how to act at
                        parting.
                    "I'll be back all right, Tennys," he said at last.
                        "Would you care very much if-if I never came back?"
                    "Oh, Hugh!" was her wail. "How can you ask? What
                        would it mean to me to be left here all alone? If you would have me brave,
                        do not ask such questions. Go, Hugh. Good-by!"
                    He grasped her hand, wrung it spasmodically, 
                        glanced once in her eyes and was off toward the horde of warriors
                        congregating in the field.
                    Lady Tennys steadied her swaying figure against the doorpost and looked out
                        upon the preparations for departure. The light in her eyes had died.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    ON THE EVE OF BATTLE
                    RIDGEWAY looked at his watch as he drew up to the torch
                        bearers. It was then ten minutes after ten o'clock. In all
                        probability the entire force of the enemy had landed upon the coast and was
                        already on its way toward the village. He realized that these savages,
                        friend and foe, knew nothing of the finer stratagems of warfare. Their style
                        of fighting was of the cruel kind that knows no science, no quarter. A new
                        commander had come to revolutionize the method of warfare for at least one
                        of the armies. It was to be a case of strategy and a new intelligence
                        against superior forces and a surprised ferocity.
                    He was somewhat amazed to find that none of his troopers had attempted to
                        leave the village before he was there to lead. This, when he thought of the
                        eagerness and bloodthirstiness of the men, was certainly a fair promise of
                        submissiveness on the field of battle. To be sure, the restraint was almost
                        unendurable to the fierce fellows who had caught up their shields and spears
                        long before he came in from the river. The excitement was intense, the
                        jabbering frightful. Here, there, everywhere danced the frantic  warriors, tossing their weapons in the air
                        and screaming with a loyalty that savored very much of impotent rage.
                    "God, I'd give little for a man's life if he
                        crossed these devils to-night," thought Hugh as King Pootoo
                        detached himself from the horde and raced unmajestically over to meet him,
                        almost forgetting to prostrate himself in his frenzy. Grossly exaggerated by
                        the flare of the torches, the spectacle was enough to strike terror to the
                        strongest heart. The king subdued himself sufficiently to grasp the meaning
                        of Hugh's signs and set about to bring order out of chaos-a
                        difficult task for even a king. Gradually the excitement subsided and the
                        band stood at rest, awaiting the command to move to the hills across the
                        river. They reminded Hugh of dogs he had seen. We all have held a chunk of
                        meat high above a dog's nose and we have seen him sit in enforced
                        patience, hoping for the fall thereof. And we all know that after a certain
                        time he will throw patience to the winds and leap frantically upward in the
                        effort to secure the prize.
                    A force of fully one hundred young fellows was to be left in the village as a
                        guard against disaster in case the enemy should force its way through the
                        pass. Lady Tennys was to have a bodyguard, even though it crippled the
                        fighting force at the front. The men comprising this reserve did not relish
                        the plan, but their objections were relentlessly overruled by the white Izor
                        and King Pootoo. With sulky  heads they seated
                        themselves as directed near the temple they were to protect with their
                        lives.
                    It required but a few minutes of time for Ridgeway to find that his little
                        army was ready to move. After some hesitation he went to the temple door to
                        bid farewell to his fellow-castaway. She was still leaning against the
                        doorpost and did not move as he approached.
                    "We're off now," he said as he came up.
                        "Don't worry, little woman; we'll come home
                        victorious as sure as fate. See these fellows? They are your guard, your own
                        soldiers. You can command them to do as you wish."
                    "Mine?" she asked slowly, as if not comprehending.
                    "Yes; they are the Lady Tennys Reserves," he said, smiling.
                        A glad light suddenly broke in her eyes, her face brightened and her whole
                        mien changed from despair to delight.
                    "Thank you, Hugh. I shall never forget you for this. You will never
                        know how happy I am to have these men to do my bidding. If it is necessary I
                        will show you that a woman of England can fight as valiantly as her
                        brothers, the bravest men in all the world." In her eyes there were
                        tears as she uttered these words,-tears of courage and pride.
                    "Would that I could have you by my side all through this fight.
                        There is an inspiration in your very gentleness that could make me do
                        prodigious deeds of valor. But, good-by, Tennys! I'll be back for
                        lunch to-morrow!" he cried as he dashed away. He could  look into those swimming eyes no longer and
                        restrain a certain impulse that was trying to force him into the liberation
                        of an entirely unnecessary bit of sentiment.
                    "Good-by, Hugh! Don't be careless. What will the Reserves
                        be worth to me if you are killed? I shall pray for you, Hugh-every minute of
                        this awful night I shall pray for you."
                    "God bless you," he called back from Velvet Valley, his
                        brain whirling with the wish that he had kissed her and the fear of the
                        result had he made the attempt.
                    A few minutes later he sent his jacket back to the temple. It was his most
                        valued possession. Had he seen the look of tenderness in her eyes as she
                        held up the worn, blue jacket; had he seen her kiss the blue cloth
                        impulsively, he would have been thrilled to the bone. But had he been there
                        to observe the startled, mystified blush that rose to her brow when she
                        found that she had really kissed his coat, he might have been as perplexed
                        as she over the unusual act.
                    With heart beating violently and nerves strung to their highest tension,
                        Ridgeway led the way to the river. He was as confident of victory as if he
                        were returning from the pass with the result out of doubt. Reaching the
                        river, his men plunged into the water and swam across, not waiting for the
                        canoes. He and the king were rowed over, meeting the swimmers as they came
                        up from the bank, dripping and puffing. Again the march was resumed, and
                        within fifteen minutes  the band was at the
                        foot of the hills. Here Hugh called a halt.
                    With Pootoo and a dozen men he went forward to take a look down the long
                        gorge. All torches were extinguished and absolute silence was enforced. The
                        scouting party failed to hear a sound except the cries of night birds and
                        their own heavy breathing. All nature seemed to be resting for the struggle
                        that was to come.
                    Six fleet fellows were sent over the hills to skirt the edge of the pass for
                        its full length, a mile or more. They were to wait at the opposite end until
                        the enemy revealed its approach and then hurry back with the alarm.
                        Returning to the waiting army, Hugh and the king began the work of assigning
                        the men to their places. Two hundred were stationed in the trenches and
                        behind the breastworks at the mouth of the pass, ready to intercept those of
                        the enemy who succeeded in escaping the boulders and spears from the
                        hilltops. These men stacked their spears behind them and then, at the
                        command of the king, who had been instructed by the Izor, laid themselves
                        upon the ground to sleep. This was an innovation in warfare so great that
                        open rebellion was threatened. The novices in civilized and scientific
                        fighting were fully convinced that the enemy was nowhere in sight and that
                        they would be called when the proper moment came.
                    Then came the manning of the four hundred boulders on the top of the hills.
                        All along the line of heavy rocks men were stationed with instructions to
                             roll them into the pass when the signal
                        was given. Both sides of the pass were lined with these boulders. The king
                        was as near in ecstasies over the arrangements as one of his nature could
                        possibly be. He prostrated himself a dozen times before the wonderfully
                        clever genius who was in command, twice bumping his head against exceedingly
                        hard rocks that he had been unable to see when he began his precipitous
                        collapse to reverence.
                    It was after midnight before the army in ambush was ready for the conflict.
                        Hugh was amazed to find the men cool and submissive, obeying every order
                        that he managed in some way to convey to them. With everything in readiness
                        there was nothing to do but to wait for the crisis, so he threw himself on
                        the grass at the top of the highest point on the ridge near the opening to
                        the valley, and tried to sleep.
                    While he reclined there, thinking of a sweet-faced woman and her Reserves,
                        fully eighteen hundred warriors were stealthily coming up from the sea. Six
                        wakeful sentinels were waiting for them.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    THE LADY TENNYS RESERVES
                    THE night passed. One, two, three o'clock went by
                        on the trip to sunrise. Hugh dozed at times despite the strain on his
                        nerves. When at last he arose to stretch himself, he saw the faint gray
                        meeting and mingling with the black in the skies, and knew that the crisis
                        was almost at hand.
                    Swiftly, silently through the darkness came six forms, hurrying from the
                        distant end of the pass with the alarm. They sped into the presence of the
                        king and Hugh just as the first gleam of light began to make itself visible
                        in the east. The messengers had seen the enemy, by that time entering the
                        pass from the north. In an instant Hugh's little army was in a
                        state of wild perturbation. One could have heard the gnashing of teeth had
                        he walked among the groups receiving final orders from King Pootoo. Silence
                        reigned again-the silence of death.
                    Something that sounded like the heavy breathing of a man came to the ears of
                        the waiters. It was the sweep of naked feet over the pebbly, sandy bottom of
                        the pass, the cautious movement of bodies through the air, sounds growing
                        plainer until they resembled the rustling of grass through which a snake  is gliding. To Hugh the intense moments
                        seemed like hours. Would they never come to view? Would the ambush succeed?
                        Why were they so slow? He could have gone ten miles while they were covering
                        the scant mile, he swore in his fever of anxiety.
                    At last the king pointed excitedly down the dark gulch, and, for the first
                        time, Ridgeway realized that he was facing an enemy in battle. His eyes did
                        not blink, so intently were they glued upon the dim, uncertain objects that
                        moved in the distance. The sword at his side was gripped in a fierce but
                        unconscious grasp. He placed his hand over his throbbing heart; a damp chill
                        seemed to break through every pore in his body.
                    "In five minutes this place will be hell!" he muttered, and
                        the king looked at him inquiringly.
                    Slowly the moving mass resolved itself into a thousand entities, swarming
                        towards the opening at the end of the pass. It required all of his coolness
                        and selfpossession to control the wild impulse to begin the fight long
                        before the proper moment. To his surprise, not one of his men moved from his
                        position.
                    In advance of the main body of invaders was a small detachment of scouts.
                        Hugh saw that they would reach the trenches ahead of the army and that the
                        trap would be revealed. His heart almost failed him as he looked down upon
                        that now distinguishable mass crowding up through the gorge. There seemed to
                        be thousands of them, strapping, fierce, well-armed savages. Their spears
                        looked not unlike a field of dancing cornstalks.
                    
                    It was necessary to check the little advance guard before the plans could go
                        amiss. Ridgeway, suddenly calm and deliberate, despatched the king with
                        instructions to have his men spear the scouts as they came up, driving them
                        back. Pootoo wriggled stealthily to the breastworks below, reaching the
                        position a few moments ahead of the Oolooz squad. Perhaps one hundred yards
                        behind this detail came the swarm of battle men. There was something in the
                        advance that suggested a cat stealing upon an unsuspecting bird.
                    By this time it was quite light, although sunrise was half an hour away. In
                        the gray, phantom-producing gloom Hugh could see his own men behind the
                        boulders, awaiting his command. A sudden shriek broke on the stillness,
                        causing him to leap as if some one had struck him violently. Then there was
                        a succession of yells and the rushing of feet. He glanced nervously toward
                        the trenches. A dozen Oolooz men were flying back toward the main body,
                        while not a sign of Pootoo or his men was visible. They had delivered a few
                        spears and had dropped back into the trench.
                    The main body in the pass swayed and jammed in the effort to halt, but the
                        rear pushed forward so clamorously that the whole mass rolled up the ravine
                        fairly into the death trap before it began to understand the meaning of the
                        yells and the sudden retreat of the scouts.
                    "Now is the time," thought the American. His tall form
                        sprang from behind the tree at the edge of the little cliff. His white face
                        was whiter than ever, his  eyes flashed, his
                        long frame quivered. Up went his sword arm and loud came the cry from his
                        lips:
                    "Fire!"
                    As if by magic two long rows of immutable boulders wabbled for a second and
                        then thundered down the hillside, while ten score of wild, naked human
                        beings sent up yells of horrid glee to the unveiling dome above.
                    No pen can describe the flight of those death-dealing rocks as they bounded
                        over the sharp declivities, gaining speed with each revolution, scattering
                        earth, gravel and underbrush with the force of a cyclone, leaping at last
                        with a crushing roar into the very midst of the stupefied army. There was a
                        sickening, grinding crash, an instant of silence, then the piteous wails and
                        groans and the spectacle of a writhing, rolling, leaping, struggling mixture
                        of human forms. Almost as the first volley of rocks left its position to
                        roll upon the vanguard of the ambushed horde, the howling devils on the hill
                        tops were scurrying toward the second row, farther to the right. Down poured
                        this second storm of rocks, increasing the panic below, literally
                        slaughtering the helpless wretches by the score.
                    Ridgeway looked upon this scene of destruction as if fascinated. He was
                        powerless to move. He had not dreamed that his trap could produce such a
                        havoc. The bottom of the pass was strewn with grovelling, shrieking bodies,
                        trampled beneath the feet of their uninjured but insane companions. Dead and
                        wounded, crushed and maimed, made up the surging humanity  in the fatal pass. The rocks had mowed them
                        down. Devastation had come like lightning from the skies. It was
                        horrible!
                    Closing his eyes, he turned away, utterly sick. A moment later he glanced
                        about, hearing the victorious, eager savages on the heights screeching like
                        madmen. From all sides they were swarming toward him, concentrating for the
                        swoop down the hillside at his command. He was awakened to action, his mind
                        grasped the importance of immediate decision and he was entirely recovered
                        from his momentary palsy. One particular feature of the horrid scene
                        lingered in his memory till his dying day. The surprised Oolooz men, not
                        knowing whence came the foe or the nature of the charge down the hills, had
                        quicl-ly turned their spears to receive the onslaught, expecting men instead
                        of rocks. He never forgot the brief stand they made.
                    At first he believed that all had been killed-that the battle was over before
                        it began. But even as he turned for another pitying glance below, the
                        recovered foemen started up the hillside, shouting and screaming with rage.
                        The ground was covered with prostrate or crawling forms, yet, to his
                        amazement, there still seemed to be thousands of vigorous, uninjured
                        warriors.
                    "Good Lord! There are a million!" he shouted. Leaping
                        forward, he swung his sword on high and with every nerve aquiver he
                        cried:
                    "Fire!"
                    It was the only command he had taught them. It 
                        meant fight, pure and simple. Across the gulch the command could not be
                        heard, but the men over there were only too glad to follow the example set
                        by their comrades, and from both sides a perfect storm of spears hissed
                        through the air.
                    Up from the rear rushed scores of Oolooz warriors. Despite the vicious attack
                        they crowded steadily up the hillside toward the crest on which stood Hugh
                        and his practically unbroken front. Through some sort of natural generalship
                        they confined their charge to the hills on one side of the pass. Ridgeway
                        saw this with alarm. He knew that they would eventually force their way to
                        the top. Yet the spears from above mowed down the climbing savages like
                        tenpins, while their weapons did little or no damage. With each distinct
                        volley from above the advancing foe fell back, but rallied like heroes. By
                        this time hundreds of them were down; broad daylight made the pass look like
                        a slaughter pen.
                    Ridgeway ran among his men, urging them to stand firm, to beat back the foe,
                        and they responded with an ardor that was nothing less than fiendishness
                        itself. Their spears were unerringly thrown, but the supply was diminishing;
                        it was the question of a very few minutes before they would be without
                        ammunition. Hugh's hope lay in the possibility that the foe would
                        soon retreat, believing itself unable to cope with an adversary whose
                        numbers were unknown and who held such an advantageous position.
                    He soon saw that he would have to quickly withdraw  his men from the hill after one of the temporary repulses,
                        taking them to the trench at the mouth of the pass. Almost as he was forming
                        this plan, he realized that it would be necessary to carry it out at
                        once.
                    Far down the pass, beyond his line, the enemy came swarming up the undefended
                        slope, steep as it was, and some of the foremost were already scrambling
                        over the last few feet intervening. He yelled to the men, pointing to the
                        danger spot and then toward the trenches, making a sign immediately
                        thereafter to deliver a telling volley into the struggling ranks.
                    The savages seemed to understand, and he devoutly thanked God, for they sent
                        a shower of spears into the horde and then dashed helter-skelter in the
                        direction of the trenches where lay the king and two hundred men. Wild yells
                        of triumph came from behind, and long before the descent to the valley was
                        reached by the fleeing white man and his dusky army, the Ooloozers were
                        pouring into the tree-covered summit like so many sheep.
                    Down the hill sped Hugh and his men. Pootoo saw them coming and waved his
                        spear frantically. As the retreating army rolled headlong into the trenches
                        and behind the breastworks, the enemy arrived at the crest of the hill.
                        Breathlessly Hugh motioned for Pootoo to call the men from the opposite hill
                        into action at once.
                    A volley of spears shot into and over the trenches, followed by a whirlwind
                        of the long, slender  messengers of death,
                        several of them taking effect. Pootoo's men returned the volley
                        from behind the breastworks, but the rampant chargers were not to be
                        checked. Up to the very edge of the trench they rushed, and from that moment
                        it does not lie within the power of the writer to depict the horrors of the
                        conflict in detail. Hugh's men, well protected and well armed,
                        hurled death into the ranks of the fearless enemy as it crowded to the high
                        breastworks. And out from the mouth of the pass poured the mass of Ooloozers
                        who had not ascended the hill.
                    Ridgeway, cutting viciously away at the black bodies as they plunged against
                        the wall behind which they stood, felt the spears crash against his shield,
                        heard them hiss past, saw them penetrate the earthworks all about him. At
                        another time he would have wondered how he and his men could hope to
                        withstand such an onslaught. One thing he did have time to observe, and that
                        was the surprise, consternation, even fear that came into the enraged faces
                        of the assaulting savages when they saw him plainly. They were looking for
                        the first time on the face of a white man-the new god of their enemies.
                    A sudden change in the tide of battle, though brief, transferred the brunt of
                        conflict to another quarter. A withering rain of spears struck the enemy on
                        the flank and rear, and down from the opposite hilltop rushed the mob that
                        had formed the other boulder squad at the beginning of the fight, but who
                        had done nothing after the first charge of the Oolooz men up  the hill. They threw themselves upon the
                        enemy and were soon lost in the boiling mass. Gaining fresh courage and a
                        renewed viciousness, the men in the trenches forsook the shelter and poured
                        into the open, Hugh being powerless to check them.
                    "It is all over," groaned he, when he saw his crazy forces
                        jump into the very centre of the seething mass. With a white man's
                        shrewdness he remained behind the friendly breastworks, a dozen of his
                        warriors fighting by his side. Repeated rushes against his position were
                        broken by the desperate resistance of this small company. Hugh's
                        heavy sword was dripping with blood; it had beaten in the skull of many a
                        foe, had been driven beneath the shields and through the bodies of others.
                        To him it seemed hours instead of minutes since the battle began; his arm
                        was growing tired, his brain was whirling, his body was dripping with
                        perspiration. Still his blood boiled and surged with savage enjoyment; he
                        was now yelling with the same frenzy that filled the wild men; pure delight
                        grew out of the fall of every opponent that went down under his sword.
                    At last the Oolooz leader, a blood-covered savage as large as Pootoo, led his
                        men up to the breastworks, driving the defenders into the trenches and down
                        the gentle slope. Triumph was theirs apparently, and their yelling was full
                        of it. But inch by inch Pootoo fought them back. Once the king looked
                        helplessly at Hugh, as if praying for him as a god to exert his influence in
                        the unequal struggle. That glance was one  of
                        entreaty, surprise, but Hugh could also see disgust in it. It stung him
                        strangely.
                    Although he had fought and killed more men than any one on either side,
                        perhaps, he had not gone forth from behind the breastworks; he was not out
                        in the thick of it. With a yell of encouragement to the men, he flung
                        himself over the little wall, alighting on the soft body of a corpse. With
                        his supporters at his heels he dashed to the king's side. Inside of
                        two minutes he was struck in the leg by a spear, his hand was cut by a
                        glancing blow from a club and his shield arm was battered so fearfully that
                        it required an effort to hold it in front of his body. Blood streamed into
                        his eyes and down his breast, his arms grew weak, his blows were feeble, his
                        knees trembled, and he was ready to drop. Twice he went to his knees only to
                        stagger to his feet again. Three times Pootoo's mighty club beat
                        down warriors who were about to brain him.
                    His mind was chaotic, filled with the now certain defeat and the
                        heart-breaking thought that Lady Tennys would be left to the mercies of the
                        victors. Tears were mingling with the blood; his very soul was crying for
                        strength, for hope, for salvation. In his din-stricken ears ran that wail:
                        "What will become of me if you are killed?" Her face
                        seemed to float in front of his eyes, her voice came trembling and lulling
                        and soft through the hellish sounds, piercing the savagery with gentle
                        trustfulness, urging him to be brave, strong and true. Then Grace
                        Vernon's dear face, dim and indistinct, lured him forward into the
                        strife, her  clear voice, mingling with the
                        plaintive tones of the other, commanding him to come to her. He must win! He
                        must win !
                    But the great horde of Oolooz warriors were at last breaking down the smaller
                        force and all seemed lost.
                    Suddenly new life sprang up among the battered defenders. Joyous yells
                        bespoke a favorable turn of the tide. The enemy fell slowly back,
                        relinquishing the vantage gained. Far behind Ridgeway's fainting
                        form there arose the shouts of fresh factors in the fight.
                    He fell against the embankment and slowly turned his eyes toward the river.
                        Once more Pootoo's gigantic weapon saved his defenceless head from
                        the blow of an eager antagonist, but the white man knew naught of his
                        escape. His dazed eyes saw only the band of warriors flying over the plain
                        toward the field of battle. Far in their rear came a fluttering white
                        form.
                    Hardly was he able to realize that help was at hand before the released,
                        ferocious young fellows who had been left behind to guard her Ladyship were
                        plunging over the breastworks all about him.
                    The Reserves to the rescue!
                    Exaltation, glorious and strength-giving, flushed through him and he leaped
                        again into the fray. The new hope had come. He was once more battling with a
                        mighty vigor. Fury reigned for a moment and then came the stampede. Down the
                        little valley fled the foe, the conquerors in mad pursuit.
                    He was unable to follow, but his heart glowed with 
                        
                            "'THEY HAVE KILLED YOU! LET THEM KILL ME
                                '"
                        
                        
                         joy as he staggered blindly toward the
                        earthworks. As he fell, half fainting, against the bloody bank, the agonized
                        figure in white flew up to the opposite side.
                    "Hugh, Hugh," she wailed, burying her face in her hands.
                        "They have killed you! Let them kill me!"
                    "Oh, it's-nothing-" he gasped, trying to
                        smile.
                    "I'm all right, little woman,
                        but-you-got-here-just-in-time! Didn't I say-get-home-for-lunch-or
                        something-like-that?"
                    And he knew no more.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    TO THE VICTOR BELONGS?
                    IT was a month before Ridgeway was able to leave his couch
                        and to sit beneath the awning in front of the temple. Not that he had been
                        so severely wounded in the battle of June thirtieth, but that his whole
                        system had collapsed temporarily.
                    After the first terrible fear, Tennys gave herself entirely to the task of
                        caring for him. Night and day she watched, worked, and prayed over the
                        tossing sufferer. In seasons of despair, created by the frequent close
                        encroachments of death, she experienced dreams that invariably ended with
                        the belief that she heard his dying gasps. Until she became thoroughly awake
                        and could hear the movements of the two savages who sat faithfully in the
                        next room with their Izor, her heart was still with a terror so depressing
                        that it wellnigh drove her mad.
                    The wounds in his legs and side were closed and the great bruises on his back
                        and head were reduced. When he, faint and weak, began to understand what was
                        going on about him, he saw the face of one of the two women over whom he had
                        raved in his delirium. In the hours when death seemed but a step away he had
                        plaintively called for Grace and then for Tennys.  A strange gladness filled the heart of the one beside him when
                        he uttered the unconscious appeal to her. Sometimes she found herself
                        growing red over the things he was saying to her in his ravings; again she
                        would chill with the tender words that went to Grace. Then came the day when
                        he saw and knew her. Often in the days of his convalescence she would start
                        from a reverie, certain that she heard him call as he did in delirium, only
                        to sink back and smile sadly with the discovery that she had been
                        dreaming.
                    The village of Ridgehunt was a great hospital for weeks after the fight. Lady
                        Tennys herself had ordered the dead to be buried in the trenches. For the
                        first time in the history of the island the Oolooz men had been beaten. She
                        spent many hours in telling Hugh of the celebrations that followed the
                        wonderful achievements.
                    "There is one thing about our friends that I have not told you,
                        Hugh," she said one night as they sat under the awning.
                        "You have been so weak that I feared the shock might hurt
                        you."
                    "You think of my comfort always," he said gratefully.
                    "You never knew that they brought a number of prisoners to the
                        village andandoh, it is too horrible to tell you."
                    "Brought them to the village? What for?"
                    "They intended to eat them," she said, shuddering.
                    "Great Scott! They are not cannibals?"
                    "I couldn't believe it until I saw them making ready  for their awful feast out there. I shall
                        never be able to eat meat again. Alzam brought me a piece of the horrid
                        stuff. They executed the prisoners before I could interfere."
                    "Oh, that's too horrible!"
                    "Sick and terrified, I went among the men who were dancing about the
                        feast they were ready to devour, and, assuming a boldness I did not feel,
                        commanded them to desist. The king was bewildered at first, then chagrined,
                        but as I threatened him ferociously"
                    "I should have enjoyed seeing you ferocious."
                    "He called the brutes away and then I gave orders to have every one
                        of the bodies buried. For several days after that, however, the men were
                        morose and ugly looking, and I am sure it was hard for them to submit to
                        such a radical change."
                    "Talk about missionaries! You are a wonder!"
                    "I could not have done it as a missionary, Mr. Ridgeway. It was
                        necessary for me to exert my authority as a goddess."
                    "And so they are cannibals," he mused, still looking at her
                        spirited face.
                    "Just think what might have happened to us," she said.
                    That night as he lay on his couch he was forced to admit that the
                        inconsolable grief that had borne down so heavily upon him at first was
                        almost a part of the past. The pain inspired by the loss of a loved one was
                        being mysteriously eased. He was finding pleasure in a world that had been
                        dark and drear a few short  months before. He
                        was dimly conscious of a feeling that the companionship of Tennys
                        Huntingford was beginning to wreak disaster to a supposedly impregnable
                        constancy.
                    Tears came to his eyes as he murmured the name of the girl who had sailed so
                        blithely from New York with his love as her only haven. He called himself
                        the basest of wretches, the most graceless of lovers. He sobbed aloud at
                        last in his penitence, and his heart went back to the night of the wreck.
                        His love went down to the bottom of the sea, craving a single chance to
                        redeem itself before the one it had wounded and humiliated. Before he fell
                        asleep his conscience was relieved of part of its weight and the strong,
                        sweet face of Grace Vernon passed from his vivid thoughts into vague
                        dreams.
                    In the next apartment tranquilly slept the disturber, the trespasser in the
                        fields of memory, the undoer of a long-wrought love. He had tried to learn
                        the way to her heart, wondering if she cared for him as he had more than
                        once suspected. In pursuing this hazardous investigation he had learned
                        nothing, had seen nothing but perfect frankness and innocence, but had
                        become more deeply interested than he knew until this night of
                        recapitulation.
                    One night, two or three after he had thrown off the delirium, he heard her
                        praying in her room, softly, earnestly. Of that prayer one plea remained in
                        his memory long after her death: "Oh, God, save the soul of Grace
                        Vernon. Give to her the fulness of Thy love. 
                        If she be still alive, protect and keep her safe until in Thy goodness she
                        may be restored to him who mourns for her. Save and bless Hugh
                        Ridgeway."
                    The days and weeks went by and Hugh grew well and strong. To Tennys he was
                        not the same Hugh as of old. She perceived a change and wondered. One day at
                        sundown he sat moodily in front of the temple. She was lying in the hammock
                        near by. There had been one of the long, and to her inexplicable, silences.
                        He felt that her eyes were upon him and knew that they were wistful and
                        perplexed.
                    Try as he would, he could not keep his own eyes in leash; something
                        irresistible made him lift them to meet her gaze. For a moment they looked
                        at each other in a mute search for something neither was able to describe.
                        He could not hold out against the pleading, troubled, questioning eyes, bent
                        so solemnly upon his own. The wounds in her heart, because of his
                        indifference, strange and unaccountable to her, gaped in those blue
                        orbs.
                    A tremendous revulsion of feeling took possession of him; what he had been
                        subduing for weeks gained supremacy in an instant. He half rose to his feet
                        as if to rush over and crush her in his arms, but a mightier power than his
                        emotion held him back. That same unseen, mysterious power compelled him to
                        turn about and almost run from the temple, leaving her chilled and
                        distressed by his action. The power that checked him was Memory.
                    She was deeply hurt by this last impulsive exhibition  of disregard. A bewildering sense of loneliness oppressed her.
                        He despised her! All the world grew black for her. All the light went out of
                        her heart. He despised her! There was a faintness in her knees when she
                        essayed to arise from the hammock. A little cry of anguish left her lips; a
                        hunted, friendless look came into her eyes.
                    Staggering to the end of the temple, she looked in the direction he had
                        taken. Far down the line of hills she saw him standing on a little
                        elevation, his back toward her, his face to the river. Some strong influence
                        drew her to him. Out of this influence grew the wild, unquenchable desire to
                        understand. Hardly realizing what she did, she hurried through the growing
                        dusk toward the motionless figure. As she came nearer a strange timidity, an
                        embarrassment she had never felt before, seized upon her and her footsteps
                        slackened.
                    He had not seen her. A panicky inclination to fly back to the temple came
                        over her. In her heart welled a feeling of resentment. Had he any right to
                        forget what she had done for him?
                    He heard her, turned swiftly, andtrembled in every joint. They were but a few
                        paces apart and she was looking unwaveringly into his eyes.
                    "I have followed you out here to ask why you treat me so
                        cruelly," she said after a long silence which she sought to break
                        but could not. He distinguished in this pathetic command, meant to be firm
                        and positive, the tremor of tears.
                    
                    "II do not treat you cruelly, Tennys," he answered
                        disjointly, still looking at the slight, graceful figure, as if unable to
                        withdraw his eyes.
                    "What do you call it?" she asked bitterly.
                    "You wrong me" he began.
                    "Wrong you? No, I do not. You saved me from the sea and you have
                        done much for me until within the past few weeks. I had begun to forget that
                        I am here because fate substituted me for another. Hugh, do not let your
                        love for Grace and your regret at not having saved her turn you against me.
                        I am not here because I could have helped it. You must know that
                        I"
                    "For Heaven's sake, Tennys, don't talk like that!
                        The trouble is that I do not regret having saved you. That's why
                        you see the change in methat's why I've hurt you. I cannot
                        be to you what I would beI cannot and be true to myself," he cried
                        fiercely.
                    "What do you mean? Why are you so unhappy, Hugh? Have I hurt
                        you?' she asked, coming quite close in sudden compassion.
                    "Hurt me!" heexclaimed. `You will kill me!" She
                        paled with the thought that he was delirious again or crazed from the
                        effects of the fever.
                    "Don't say that, Hugh. I care more for you than for any one
                        in the world. Why should I hurt you?" she asked tenderly,
                        completely misunderstanding him.
                    "You don't mean to, but you do. I have tried to conquer it
                        but I cannot. Don't you know why I have forced myself to be unhappy
                        during the past few  weeks? Can't you
                        see why I am making you unhappy, too, in my struggle to beat down the
                        something that has driven everything else out of my mind?"
                    "Don't talk so, Hugh; it will be all right. Come home now
                        and I will give you some wine and put some cool bandages on your head. You
                        are not well." She was so gentle, so unsuspecting that he could
                        contain himself no longer.
                    "I love youI worship you! That is why I am cruel to you!"
                        he burst out. A weakness assailed him and he leaned dizzily against the tree
                        at his side. He dared not look at her, but he marvelled at her silence. If
                        she loved him, as he believed, why was she so quiet, so still?
                    "Do you know what you say?" she asked slowly.
                    "I have said it to myself a thousand times since I left you at the
                        temple. I did not intend to tell you; I had sworn you should never know it.
                        What do you think of me?"
                    "I thought you called it love that sent you to Manila," she
                        said wonderingly, wounding without malice.
                    "It was love, I say. I loved her better than all the world and I
                        have not forgotten her. She will always be as dear to me as she was on the
                        night I lost her. You have not taken her place. You have gone farther and
                        inspired a love that is new, strange, overpoweringinfinitely greater, far
                        different from the love I had known before. She was never to me what you
                        are.  That is what drives me madmad, do you
                        hear? I have simply been overwhelmed by it."
                    "I must be dreaming," she murmured.
                    "I have tried to hide it from myself, but it has broken down all
                        barriers and floods the world for me."
                    "It is because we are here alone in this island"
                    "No, no! Not that, I swear. It would have come sooner or
                        later."
                    "You are not like other men. I have not thought of you as I see you
                        now. I cannot understand being loved by you. It hurts me to see that you are
                        in earnest. Oh, Hugh, how sorry I am," she cried, laying her hand
                        upon his arm. His heart dropped like lead. He saw that he had been
                        mistakenshe did not love him.
                    "You are learning that I am not the harlequin after all,"
                        he said bitterly.
                    "There is no one in all the world so good and strong and
                        true."
                    "Youyou will love me?"
                    "You must not ask that of me. I am still Lady Huntingford, a wife
                        for all we know. Yet if I loved you, I would tell you so. Have I not told
                        you that I cannot love? I have never loved. I never shall. Don't
                        look like that, Hugh. I would to God I could love you," she
                        exclaimed. His chin had sunk upon his breast and his whole body relaxed
                        through sheer dejection.
                    "I'll make you love me!" he cried after a
                        moment's misery in the depths, his spirits leaping high with the
                        quick recoil. His eager hands seized her shoulders  and drew her close, so close that their bodies touched and his
                        impassioned eyes were within a few inches of hers of startled blue.
                        "I'll make you love me!"
                    "Please let me go. Please, Hugh," she murmured faintly.
                    "You mustyou shall love me! I cannot live without you. I'll
                        have you whether you will or no," he whispered fiercely.
                    She did not draw back, but looked him fairly in the eye as she spoke coldly,
                        calmly, even with a sneer.
                    "You are master here and I am but a helpless woman. Would you force
                        me to forget that you have been my ideal man?"
                    "Tennys!" he cried, falling back suddenly. "You
                        don't think I would harm youoh, you know I didn't mean
                        that! What must you think of me?"
                    He put his hand over his eyes as if in deep pain, and, turning away, leaned
                        against the tree unsteadily. With his first words, his first expression, she
                        knew she had wronged him. A glad rush of blood to her heart set it throbbing
                        violently.
                    She could not have explained the thrill that went through her when he grasped
                        her shoulders, nor could she any more define the peculiar joy that came when
                        she took a step forward and placed her hands gently, timidly on his arm.
                    "Forgive me, Hugh, I must have been mad to say what I did. You are
                        too nobletoo good" she began in a pleading little quaver.
                    "I knew you couldn't mean it," he exclaimed,
                        facing  her joyously. "How beautiful
                        you are!" he added impetuously. He was looking down into that
                        penitent face and the cry was involuntary. She smiled faintly and he raised
                        his arms as if to clasp her to his breast, come what may. The smile
                        lingered, yet his arms dropped to his sides. She had not moved, had not
                        taken her eyes from his, but there was an unrelenting command in the soft
                        words she uttered.
                    "Be careful. I am always to trust you, Hugh."
                    He bowed his head and they walked slowly homeward.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX
                    THE OTHER SURRENDER
                    THE first few days and nights after this episode found
                        Ridgeway despairing and unhappy, but as time removed the sting from defeat,
                        his hopes began to flounder to the surface again, growing into a resolution,
                        strong and arrogant. He devoted himself to her tenderly, thoughtfully,
                        unreservedly. There was something subtle in his gallantry, something
                        fascinating in his good humor, something in everything he did that attracted
                        her more than it had before. She only knew that she was happy when with him
                        and that he was unlike any man she had known.
                    There were times when she imagined that he was indifferent to the shock his
                        pride had received at her hands, and at such times she was puzzled to find
                        herself piqued and annoyed. A little gnawing pain kept her awake with these
                        intermittent fears.
                    She became expert in the art of making garments from the woven grass. Her
                        wardrobe contained some remarkable gowns, and his was enlarged by the
                        addition of "Sunday trousers" and a set of shirt blouses.
                        They wore sandals instead of shoes. Each had a pair of stockings, worn at
                        the time of the wreck, but they  were held in
                        sacred disuse against the hoped-for day of deliverance.
                    One day, late in September, after the sun had banished the mists from the air
                        and the dampness from the ground by a clear day's process, they
                        wandered down between the gateposts to the beach where they had first landed
                        with Pootoo. The sun was sinking toward the water-line and they sat
                        wistfully watching it pass into the sea. For nearly five months they had
                        lived with the savages, for the greater portion not unhappily, but always
                        with the expectation that some day a vessel would come to take them back to
                        civilization.
                    "It has not been so unpleasant, after all, has it?" she
                        asked. "We have been far more comfortable than we could have prayed
                        for."
                    "I should enjoy seeing a white man once in a while, though, and
                        I'd give my head for this morning's Chicago
                        newspaper," he answered rather glumly.
                    "I have been happier on this island than I ever was in my life.
                        Isn't it strange? Isn't it queer that we have not gone mad
                        with despair? But I, for one, have not suffered a single pang, except over
                        the death of our loved ones."
                    "Lord Huntingford included," maliciously.
                    "That is unkind, Hugh. I am ashamed to say it, but I want to forget
                        that he ever lived."
                    "You will have plenty of time to forget all you ever knew before we
                        die. We'll spend the rest of our days  in that nigger village back there. If I should die first I suppose
                        you'd forget me in a week or so. It"
                    "Why, Hugh! You know better than that! Why do you say such
                        disagreeeable things?"
                    "I'm not worth remembering very long," he said
                        lamely. She smiled and said the statement threw a different light on the
                        question. Whereupon he did not know whether to laugh or scowl.
                    "This dear old island," she cried, looking toward the great
                        rocks lovingly. "Really, I should be sorry to leave
                        it."
                    "When the ship comes, I'll go back to America, and you may
                        remain here if you like and be the only Izor in the business." He
                        said it in jest, but she looked at him solemnly for a moment and then turned
                        her eyes out to sea. She was reclining on her side, her hand supporting her
                        head, her elbow in the sand. He sat five feet away, digging holes in the
                        sand with an odd little walking stick. One of her sandalled feet protruded
                        from beneath the hem of her garment, showing ever so little of the bare,
                        white, fascinating ankle.
                    "I should despise the place if I had to live here a day without
                        you," she said simply.
                    "What do you mean?" She did not answer at once. When she
                        did, it was earnestly and without the least embarrassment.
                    "Can't I make you understand how much you are to
                        me?" she asked without a blush. "You are the best, the
                        noblest man I've ever known. I like you so well that I do not know
                        how I could live if I did not have  you to
                        talk to, if I could not see you and be with you. Do you know what I did last
                        night?"
                    He could only shake his head and tremble with the joy of feeling once more
                        that she loved him and did not understand.
                    "I prayed that we might never be taken from the island,"
                        she said hurriedly, as if expecting him to condemn her for the wish. He
                        rolled over on his back, closed his eyes, and tried to control a joyous,
                        leaping heart. "It was so foolish, you know, to pray for that, but
                        I've been so contented and happy here, Hugh. Of course, I
                        don't expect we are to live here always. They will find us some
                        day." He opened his eyes and hazarded a glance at his face. She
                        smiled and said, "I'm afraid they will."
                    There was but the space of five feet between them. How he kept from bounding
                        to her side and clasping her in his arms he never knew; he was in a daze of
                        delight. So certain of her love was he now that, through some inexplicable
                        impulse, he closed his eyes again and waited to hear more of the delicious
                        confession.
                    "Then we shall leave the prettiest land in the world, a land where
                        show and pomp are not to be found, where nature reign without the touch of
                        sham, and go back to a world where all is deceit, mockery, display. I love
                        everything on this island," she cried ecstatically. He said
                        nothing, so she continued: "I may be an exile forever, but I feel
                        richer instead of poorer away off here in this unknown paradise. How
                        glorious it is to be one's self absolutely, at all times  and in all places, without a thought of what
                        the world may say. Here I am free, I am a part of nature."
                    "Do you think you know yourself fully?" he asked as quietly
                        as he could.
                    "Know myself?" she laughed. "Like a
                        book."
                    "Could you love this island if you were here alone?"
                    "Well, Isupposenot," she said, calculatively. "It
                        would not be the same, you know."
                    "Don't you know why you feel as you do about this
                        God-forsaken land, Tennys Huntingford?" he demanded, suddenly
                        drawing very near to her, his burning eyes bent upon hers.
                        "Don't you know why you are happy here?" She was
                        confused and disturbed by his manner. That same peculiar flutter of the
                        heart she had felt weeks ago on the little knoll attacked her sharply.
                    "III'm sureI am happy just because I am, I dare
                        say," she faltered, conscious of an imperative inclination to lower
                        her eyes, but strangely unable to do so.
                    "You love this island because you love me," he whispered in
                        her ear.
                    "No, no! It is not that! Please don't be foolish again,
                        Hugh. You will make me very unhappy."
                    "But you do love me. You love me, and you do not know it,"
                        he said, thrilled with excultation. She looked at him wonderingly, a half
                        scornful, half dubious smile flitting over her face.
                    "I will try to be patient with you. Don't you think I know
                        my own mind?" she asked.
                    
                    "No; you do not," he said vigorously. "Let me ask
                        you a few questions, and I beg of you, for your own sake and mine, to answer
                        them without equivocation. I'll prove to you that you love
                        me."
                    "Who is to be the judge?" she asked merrily. She trembled
                        and turned cold as he took her hand in his andshe was not merry.
                    "First, is there another man in the world that you would rather have
                        here? Answer, dear." The blood mounted to her cheek at the term of
                        endearment.
                    "Not one," she answered firmly, trying to smile.
                    "Have you never thoughtbe honest, nowthat you don't want to
                        leave the island because it would mean our separation?"
                    "Yes, butbut it would be the same with anybody else if I cared for
                        him," she exclaimed quickly.
                    "But there is no one else, is there?" She looked at him
                        helplessly. "Answer!"
                    "Oh, Hugh, Iit would not be right for me to encourage you by
                        answering that. Please let us go back to the village," she
                        pleaded.
                    "Well, I know there is no one else. Tell me that you don't
                        want to leave me because we should drift apart in the big world,"
                        he persisted.
                    "I had thought of that," she said so low that he could
                        barely hear.
                    "You have prayed that Grace may be alive. What would it mean to you
                        if she should be alive and we should be reunited?"
                    "II don't know," she muttered blankly.
                    
                    "Would you be willing and happy to give me up to her?"
                    "I never thought of that," she said. Then a terror leaped
                        to her eyes and her breast heaved as with pain. "Oh, Hugh, what
                        would that mean to me? I could not give you upI could not!" she
                        cried, clasping his hand feverishly in both of hers.
                    "Would you be glad to see us married, to see us living together, to
                        see children come to us? Would you be happy if I forgot you in my love for
                        her?" he went on remorselessly, yet delightedly.
                    "You couldn't forget me," she whispered, faint and
                        trembling now. "You don't mean to say I never could be
                        near you again!" There was dismay in her face and a sob in her
                        voice.
                    "Oh, occasionally, but in a very formal way."
                    "I believe I should die," she cried, unable to restrain
                        herself.
                    "You admit then that you want me for yourself only," he
                        said.
                    "Yes, yes I do, Hugh! I want you every minute of my
                        life!"
                    "Now you are beginning to know what love is," he breathed
                        in her ear. His eager arm stole slowly around her shoulders and, as she felt
                        herself being drawn close to him irresistibly, a sweet wonder overwhelmed
                        her. The awakening had come. With singing heart she lifted her hands to his
                        cheeks, bewitched by the new spell, holding his face off from her own while
                        she looked long and yearningly into his eyes. A soft flush  crept over her brow and down her neck, her
                        eyes wavered and melted into mirrors of love, her lips parted, but she could
                        not speak. The clasp tightened, his face came nearer, his words sounded like
                        music in her enchanted ears.
                    "Have I proved that you love me, darling?"
                    "I never knew till nowI never knew till now," she
                        whispered.
                    "Their lips met, their eyes closed, and the world was far, far away
                        from the little stretch of sand.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX
                    WHERE THERE IS NO MINISTER
                    SIX savages lying on the sand far above them saw the
                        strange scene down near the splashing surf and looked blankly at each other.
                        They had never known their Izors to act in that manner, and their benighted
                        minds were troubled.
                    "Oh, Hugh, those men are looking at us," she protested,
                        after the first moments of joy.
                    "Let them look," he cried. "You should pity them,
                        dear, for until a few moments ago you were as much in the dark as to the
                        meaning of love as they are now. You were a perfect heathen."
                    "You are no longer the harlequin. You have become the
                        wizard."
                    "But it isn't a pantomine," he said.
                    The shadows were falling and darkness was settling about them as they passed
                        between the giant rocks and into Velvet Valley, his arm around her waist.
                        This new emotion deprived them of the desire to talk. There was a conscious
                        flush in her cheeks, a queer restraint in her voice, a curious timidity in
                        her manner when they sat before the rude table in the temple and partook of
                        food that had never tasted so sweet before; though neither could eat of it.
                        Something had satisfied  the grosser appetite;
                        something was tugging and choking the old into submission while the new was
                        crowding into it realm, buoyantly, inflatingly.
                    They sat in front of the temple until far in the night, revelling in the
                        beauty of the new nature. The whole world seemed different to them as they
                        regarded it through the eyes of love; the moonlit sky was more glorious than
                        ever before; the sombre stillness of the night was more restful; the
                        atmosphere was sweet with the breath of passion; the sports of the savages
                        had a fresh novelty; the torches in front of the king's home
                        flickered with a merrier brilliancy.
                    All Ridgehunt was awake and celebrating, for it was a festal night. King
                        Pootoo had taken unto himself a new wife, adding one more to the household
                        of his heart. There were dances and sports and all manner of festivities in
                        honor of the event, for it was not oftener than twice a year that the king
                        took a new wife unto his bosom. The white people never knew where the
                        ceremony began. They only knew that on this night of all nights the father
                        of the bride had led her to the king and had drawn with his spear a circle
                        in the soft earth.
                    Inside of this circle the girl prostrated herself before the groom-elect and
                        the marriage was complete when the royal giant stepped into the wedding ring
                        and lifted her to her feet, leading her to a place among her predecessors,
                        who sat on the ground near by. Then the celebration ran to its highest
                        pitch. Late in the night the weird revelry ceased and the two spectators  entered the temple, her hand in his. He led
                        her to the curtained door of her apartment.
                    "Good-night, dear one," he said softly. She turned her face
                        to his and he held her for an instant to his heart, their lips meeting in a
                        long thrill of ecstasy.
                    "Good-night," she whispered. He pulled the curtain aside
                        and she slowly entered the room. For an hour afterward he lay awake,
                        wondering what manner of love it was he had given to Grace Vernon. It was
                        not like this.
                    It was barely daylight when he arose from his couch, dressed and started for
                        a brisk walk over the hills. His ramble was a long one and the village was
                        astir when he came through the woodland, some distance from the temple.
                        Expecting to find Tennys waiting for him, he hastened to their abode. She
                        evidently had not arisen, so, with a tinge of disappointment, he went to his
                        room. Then he heard her, with her women, taking her morning plunge in the
                        pool. The half hour before she made her appearance seemed a day to him. They
                        met in the hallway, he glad and expectant, she shy and diffident. The red
                        that burned in her cheeks turned to white when he kissed her, and her
                        eyelids fell tremblingly with the proof positive that she had not dreamed
                        the exquisite story of the night before.
                    Later in the morning they called on the king, and that individual promptly
                        prostrated himself. They found the new bride repairing a section of the
                        king's palace that had been blown down by a recent hurricane.
                        Before the white people left, Tennys had the 
                        satisfaction and Hugh the amusement of seeing the big chief repairing the
                        rent and the bride taking a rest.
                    "I've been thinking pretty hard this morning,
                        dear," he said as they walked back to the temple,
                        "especially when I was alone in the forest."
                    "Can't you think unless you are alone?" she asked,
                        smiling.
                    "We all think differently sometimes when we are alone, you know. I
                        was just thinking what a dickens of a position we are in for a pair of
                        lovers."
                    "It seems to me that it is ideal."
                    "But where is the minister or magistrate?"
                    "What have they to do with it?"
                    "Everything, I should say. We can't get married without one
                        or the other," he blurted out. She stopped stockstill with a
                        gasp.
                    "Get married? Whywhy, we have said nothing of getting
                        married."
                    "And that's just why I am speaking of it now. I want you to
                        be my wife, Tennys. Will you be my wife, dear?" he asked
                        nervously.
                    "How absurd, Hugh. We may be on this island forever, and how are we
                        to be married here? Besides, I had not thought of it."
                    "But you must think of it. I can't do all the
                        thinking."
                    "Lord Huntingford may not be dead," she said, turning pale
                        with the possibility.
                    "I can swear that he is. He was one of the first to  perish. I don't believe you know
                        what love is even now, or you would answer my question."
                    "Don't be so petulant, please. It is a serious matter to
                        consider, as well as an absurd one, situated as we are. Now, if I should say
                        that I will be your wife, what then?"
                    "But you haven't said it," he persisted.
                    "Hugh, dear, I would become your wife to-day, tomorrowany time, if
                        it were possible."
                    "That's what I wanted you to say."
                    "But until we are taken from this island to some place where there
                        is an altar, how can we be married, Hugh?"
                    "Now, that's something for you to think about.
                        It's almost worried the life out of me."
                    By this time they had reached the temple. She flung herself carelessly into
                        the hammock, a contented sigh coming from her lips. He leaned against a post
                        near by.
                    "I am perfectly satisfied here, Hugh," she said
                        tantalizingly. "I've just been thinking that I am safer
                        here."
                    "Safer?"
                    "To be sure, dear. If we live here always there can be no one to
                        disturb us, you know. Has it ever occurred to you that some one else may
                        claim you if we go back to the world? And Lord Huntingford may be waiting
                        for me down at the dock, too. I think I shall object to being
                        rescued," she said demurely.
                    "Well, if he is alive, you can get a divorce from him  on the ground of desertion. I can swear that
                        he deserted you on the night of the wreck. He all but threw you
                        overboard."
                    "Let me ask a question of you. Suppose we should be rescued and you
                        find Grace alive and praying for your return, loving you more than ever.
                        What would become of her if you told her that you loved me and what would
                        become of me if you married her?"
                    He gulped down a great lump and the perspiration oozed from his pores. Her
                        face was troubled and full of earnetness.
                    "What could I say to her?" He began to pace back and forth
                        beneath the awning. She watched him pittyingly, understanding his
                        struggle.
                    "Now you know, Hugh, why I want to live here forever. I have thought
                        of all this," she said softly, holding out her hand to him. He took
                        it feverishly, gaining courage from its gentle touch.
                    "It is better that she should moun for me as dead," he said
                        at last, "than to have me come back to her with love for another in
                        my breast. Nedra is the safest place in all the world, after all, dearest. I
                        can't bear to think of her waiting for me if she is alive, waiting
                        toto be my wife. Poor, poor girl!"
                    "We have been unhappy enough for to-day. Let us forget the world and
                        all its miseries, now that we both love the island well enough to live and
                        die on its soil. Have you thought how indescribably alone we are, perhaps
                        for the rest of our lives? Years and years may be spent here. Let them all
                        be sweet and good and  happy. You know I would
                        be your wife if I could, but I cannot unless Providence takes us by the
                        hands and lifts us to the land where some good man can say: `Whom God hath
                        joined, let not man put asunder.'"
                    The next day after breakfast she took him by the hand and led him to the
                        little knoll down by the hills. Her manner was resolute; there was a charm
                        in it that thrilled him with expectancy.
                    "If we are not rescued within a year's time, it is hardly
                        probable that we will ever be found, is it?" she asked
                        reflectively.
                    "They may find us to-morrow and they may never see the shores of
                        this island."
                    "But as they have not already discovered it, there is certainly some
                        reason. We are in a part of the sea where vessels do not venture, that is
                        evident," she argued persuasively.
                    "But why do you ask?"
                    "Because you want me to be your wife," she said, looking
                        him frankly in the eye.
                    "I can only pray that we may be found," he said
                        wistfully.
                    "And in case we are never found?"
                    "I shall probably die an old bachelor," he laughed grimly.
                        For some moments she was in a deep study, evidently questioning the
                        advisability or propriety of giving expression to what was in her mind.
                    "Are there not a great many methods of observing the marriage
                        ceremony, Hugh? And are they not all sacred?" she asked
                        seriously.
                    
                    "What are you trying to get at, dear?"
                    "I may as well tell you what I have been thinking of since last
                        night. You will not consider me bold and unwomanly, I know, but I want to be
                        your wife. We may never leave this island, but we can be married
                        here."
                    "Married here!" he exclaimed. "You
                        mean"
                    "I mean that the cremony of these natives can be made as sacred in
                        the eye of God as any in all the world. Nine-tenths or more of all the
                        marriages in the world are crimes, because man, not God, welds the bonds.
                        Therefore, I say frankly to you, Hugh, that I will marry you some day
                        according to the custom of these people, as sacred to me as that of any land
                        on earth."
                    At first he could hardly believe that he had heard aright, but as she
                        progressed and he saw the nobility, the sincerity, of her declaration, a
                        wave of reverential love swept through his heart. The exaltation of a moment
                        before was quelled, destroyed by a sacred, solemn regard for her. There was
                        a lump in his throat as he bent over and gently took her hand in his,
                        lifting it to his lips.
                    "Are you sure of yourself, darling?" he whispered.
                        "I could not have spoken had I not been sure. I am very sure of
                        myself. I trust you so fully that I am sure of you as well."
                    He kissed her rapturously.
                    "God bless you. I can hardly breathe for the joy I
                        feel."
                    
                    "But you do not say you will marry me," she smiled.
                    "You shall be my wife to-day," he cried.
                    "I beg your pardon," she said gaily, "but as the
                        bride I am the arbiter of time. If in a year from now we are stillhere, I
                        will be your wife."
                    "A year! Great heaven! Impossible! I won't wait that long.
                        Now be sensible, Tennys."
                    "I am very sensible. While I am willing to recognize the sacredness
                        of the marriage laws here, I must say that I prefer those of my own land. We
                        must wait a year for deliverance. If it does not come, then I
                        will"
                    "But that's three hundred and sixty-five daysan age. Make
                        it a month, dear. A month is a long, long time, too."
                    "A year is a long time," she mused. "I will marry
                        you on the twenty-third of next May."
                    "Six months!" he exclaimed reprovingly.
                    "You must accept the decision. It is final."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI
                    THE WEDDING RING
                    THE six months passed and the strange wedding was near at
                        hand. The underlying hope that they might be discovered and restored to the
                        life that seemed so remotely far behind them was overshadowed, obliterated
                        by the conditions and preparations attendeding their nuptials. Sincerity of
                        purpose and the force of their passion justified beyond all question the
                        manner in which they were to become man and wife in this heathen land of
                        Nedra.
                    Wedding garments had been woven in the most artistic and approved fashion.
                        Lady Tennys's trouseau was most elaborate, far more extensive than
                        even the most lavish desires of civilization could have produced.
                    Their subjects vied with each other in the work of decorating their idols for
                        the ceremony. Never before had native ingenuity and native endurance been
                        put to such a test. Worship was the master workman and energy its slave.
                    "If they keep on bringing in clothes, dear, we'll have a
                        bargain-day stock to dispose of some time. We'd have to live two
                        hundred years in order to try'em on and thereby set the fashion in
                        exclusively wedding garments." Hugh made this comment as they stood
                        surveying  the latest consignment of robes,
                        which reposed with considerable reverance on the specially constructed
                        tables in the new part of Tennys Court. Amused perplexity revealed itself in
                        the faces of the couple.
                    "I think this last pair of trousers, if you should ever wear them,
                        will revolutionize the habits of the island. You will look especially
                        killing in green, Hugh."
                    "That seashell parasol of yours is unique, but I imagine it will be
                        too heavy for you to carry in Piccadilly. I observed that it required two
                        able-bodied men to bring it here, and they seemd immensely relieved when it
                        was off their shouldersto say nothing of their hands. How do you like this
                        crocodile skin necktie of mine?"
                    "It is particularly becoming to youas a belt."
                    "I'm glad we're to be married soon,
                        Tennys," said he with a grin. "If we put it off a month
                        longer there won't be enough material on land or sea to supply the
                        demand for ready-made garments. As it is, I'm afraid the poor
                        devils will have to go naked themselves until a new crop springs up. I saw
                        one of Pootoo's wives patching his best suit of breech clothes
                        today, so he must be hard put for wearing apparel."
                    "I wonder if it would offend them if we were to distribute what we
                        can't use among the poor."
                    "I am sure it would please the poor as much as it would please us.
                        They'll all be poor, you know. I have two hundred and eighty-three
                        pairs of trousers and only seven shirts. If I could trade in two hundred  and fifty pants for an extra shirt or two,
                        I'd be a much happier bridegroom."
                    "I dare say they can cut down some of my kimonas to fit you. I have
                        at least three hundred."
                    "I'd like that blue one and the polka dot up there.
                        They'd make corking shirts. I'll trade you twelve of my
                        umbrellas for one of those grass bonnets of yours. They've been
                        showing too much partiality. Here you've got nearly one hundred
                        suits of pajamas and I have but eleven."
                    "Yes, but think of the suits of armor they've made for you
                        and not one for me."
                    "But I wouldn't have time to change armor during a battle,
                        would I? One suit is enough for me. By George, they look worse than football
                        suits, don't they? One couldn't drive a javelin through
                        this chunk of stuff with a battering ram."
                    Everywhere about them were proofs of the indefatigable but lamentable
                        industry of their dusky friends. Articles inconceivable in more ways than
                        one were heaped in the huge room. Nondescript is no word to describe the
                        heterogeneous collection of things supposed to be useful as well as
                        ornamental. Household utensils, pieces of furniture, bric-a-brac of the most
                        appalling design, knickknacks and gewgaws without end or purpose started the
                        bewildered white people in the face with an intensity that confused and
                        embarassed them beyond power of expression.
                    Shortly after their strange betrothal, Lady Tennys had become a strong
                        advocate of dress reform for  women on the
                        island of Nedra. Neat, loose and convenient pajamas succeeded the cumbersome
                        petticoats of everyday life. She, as well as her subjects, made use of these
                        thrifty garments at all times except on occasions of state. They were
                        cooler, more rationalparticularly becomingand less troublesome than skirts,
                        and their advent created great rejoicing among the natives, who, prior to
                        the arrival of their white leaders, had worn little more than nothing and
                        yet had been quite fashionable.
                    Tenys was secretly rehearsing the marriage ceremony in the privacy of her
                        chamber, prompted and praised by her faithful handmaidens. To her, this
                        startling wedding meant but one thing: the resignation of all intent to
                        leave the island. The day she and Hugh Ridgeway were united according to the
                        custom sacred to these people, their fate was to be sealed forever. It was
                        to bind them irrevocably to Nedra, closing forever to them the chance of
                        returning to the civilization they had known and were relinquishing.
                    Ridgeway daily inventoried his rapidly increasing stock of war implements,
                        proud of the prowess that had made him a war-god. He soberly prohibited the
                        construction of a great boat which might have carried him and his fair
                        companion back to the old world.
                    "If we are rescued before the wedding, dear, all well and good; but
                        if not, then we want no boat, either of our own or other construction, to
                        carry us away. Our wedding day will make us citizens of Ridgehunt until  death ends the rgime. Our children may
                        depart, but we are the Izors of Nedra to the last hour of
                        life."
                    "Yes," she said simply.
                    The fortnight immediately prior to the day set for the wedding was an
                        exciting one for the bride and groom-to-be. Celebration of the great event
                        was already under way by the natives. Great feasts were planned and
                        executed; war dances and riots of worship took place, growing in fervor and
                        splendor as the day approached; preparations never flagged but went on as if
                        the future existence of the whole world depended entirely upon the outcome
                        of this great ceremony.
                    "Yesterday it was a week, now it is but six days," said
                        Hugh early one morning as they set forth to watch their adorers at work on
                        the great ceremonial temple with its "wedding ring." The
                        new temple was a huge affair, large enough to accommodate the entire
                        populace.
                    "To-morrow it will be but five days," she said;
                        "but how long the days are growing." They sat beside the
                        spring on the hillside and musingly surveyed the busy architects on the
                        plain below.
                    "How are the rehearsals progressing?" he asked.
                    "Excellently, but I am far from being a perfect savage. It
                        doesn't seem possible that I shall ever learn how to fall
                        gracefully into that ring. I believe I shall insist that you turn your head
                        at the particular juncture, for I know you'll laugh at
                        me," she said with a great show of concern.
                    
                    "I don't like that part of the service. It's a
                        shame for me to stand by and to see you tumble at my feet. Firstly,
                        it's not your place; secondly, it's liable to hurt you;
                        lastly, I'd feel a most unmanly brute. Wonder if we can't
                        modify that part of it somehow?"
                    "I might be carried in on a litter and set down in the ring, or we
                        might stretch a hammock," she said, laughing merrily.
                    "I'm determined on one point and that is in regard to the
                        pile of soft grass. Pootoo promised to cut a lot of it and put it in the
                        ring. You shan't break any bones if I can help it."
                    "Pootoo is to be master of ceremonies in every sense of the word, I
                        can see. I am the ward of a king."
                    At last the day arrived.
                    They were to enter the ceremonial temple at high noon and in their ears were
                        to be the sound of timbrels and brass, trumpets and drums and the glad
                        though raucous songs of a kingdom.
                    Early in the day Tennys Huntingford submitted herself to be arrayed for the
                        ceremony by her proud, jealous maidens. She remained alone and obscure in
                        her chamber, awaiting the moment when King Pootoo should come for her. Her
                        gown was of the purest white. It was her own handiwork, the loving labor of
                        months. True, it would have looked odd in St. James or in the cathedral, but
                        no bride ever walked to those chancels in more becoming raimentno bride was
                        ever more beatiful, no woman ever more to be coveted.  Her heart was singing with love and joy; the dreams of months
                        were coming true in these strangely wakeful hours.
                    Ridgeway wandered nervously through the village, watching the sun as it crept
                        nearer and nearer to the middle of its daily reignwould the minutes never
                        end? Why had the sun stopped in its course across the sky? Why was time so
                        tantalizing?
                    At last! The sudden clangor of weird instruments filled his ears. He held his
                        hand to his throbbing heart as he turned his gaze toward the door through
                        which she was to come.
                    Inside the great temple the people of Nedra were singing and chanting with
                        anticipant joy; outside the world was smiling benignly. All Nedra gathered
                        about the circle of earth in which Tennys Huntingford was to cast herself at
                        the feet of her husband and lord for all time.
                    Hugh had not seen her since the night before, and his eyes were straving for
                        the vision. She came forth, her white hand in the great broad palm of King
                        Pootoo, and she smiled gloriously upon the man who stood below and waited
                        for her to come to him. Together they were to approach the circle. The
                        priest were there to receive themHugh first and then his bride; the people
                        were shouting, the instruments were jangling with a fiercer fervor, the sun
                        was passing across the line with his fairest smile and wedding bells were
                        ringing in two red, full hearts.
                    But even as she came up to him and touched his arm,  outside the temple doors, the hand of Fate was lifted and a
                        rigid finger stayed them on the verge.
                    A mighty intonation, sharp and defening, came to their ears like a clap of
                        thunder from a clear sky!
                    Paralysis, stupefaction, fell upon the multitude. There was a silence as of
                        death. Every sound ceased, every heart stood still and every sense was numb.
                        It seemed an hour before Hugh Ridgeway's stiff lips muttered:
                    "A gun! A ship's gun!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII
                    THE CRUISER "WINNETKA"
                    A MOMENT later pandemonium broke loose. The ceremony was
                        forgotten in the panic that seized the startled savages. There was a rush, a
                        stampede of terror and the great temple was emptied as if by magic. Hugh and
                        his fair companion stood alone in the little plain, staring at the distant
                        gateposts, over which a faint cloud of smoke was lifting, coming up from the
                        sea beyond. The terrified savages had fled to their homes in wildest
                        alarm.
                    Minutes passed before Hugh could speak again. Power of comprehension seemed
                        to have left them. They were looking dumbly into each other's
                        eyes.
                    "It was a guna big gun. Our flag."
                    Without knowing what they did the two started across the plain, their eyes
                        glued to the great rocks that screened the mystery.
                    "Can it be the Oolooz men?" she asked.
                    "The whole Oolooz army, dead or alive, couldn't have made a
                        noise like that. It might have been a volcano breaking through the
                        rocks."
                    "Then we must not venture down there," she cried, holding
                        back. He threw his big right arm around her 
                        waist and broke into a brisk run, taking her along resistessly.
                    Together they walked and ran across the plain and through the pass which led
                        to the sea. Far behind straggled a few of the villagers, emboldened by
                        curiosity.
                    "The rocks seem to be all right," he said, as if a pet
                        theory had been destroyed.
                    By this time they had passed over the rocks and were upon the sand.
                        Simultaneously they turned their eyes toward the sea, and the sight that
                        burst upon them fairly took the breath from their lungs, leaving them so
                        weak that they staggered. A mile or so out at sea lay a huge ship, white
                        hulled and formidable. There were gun turrets above deck and a swarm of men
                        on board.
                    Hugh's eyes seemed to turn round and round in his head, his legs
                        began to tremble and his palsied lips parted helplessly, as he pointed to
                        the colors she flew. The American flag fluttered from the mizzen-mast of the
                        great vessel!
                    Almost crazed by the sight, the castaways, overcoming their stupefaction,
                        forgetting all that had gone before, danced frantically on the sand hill,
                        their ecstasy knowing no bounds.
                    "Will they see us?" she sobbed, falling at last to the
                        ground in sheer exhaustion, digging her fingers feverishly, unconsciously
                        into the sand.
                    "Yes, yes! They must see us! We are saved! Saved!" he
                        yelled hoarsely. Then he threw himself  beside
                        her, and they were clasped in each other's arms, crying like
                        children. Afterward they could remember only that they saw a boat lowered
                        from the ship. It came toward them, a white uniformed officer standing in
                        the bow. As the boat drew near Tennys began to regain her equanimity. She
                        withdrew hastily from Hugh's arms and arose. With streaming eyes
                        she waved her hands in response to the faraway salute of the officer. Hugh,
                        not so easily restrained, jumped to his feet and shouted:
                    "Hurrah! Hurrah! God bless you! American sailors! Angels of heaven,
                        every one of you! Hurrah!"
                    Holding their hands to their temples, the castaways finally calmed themselves
                        enough to look rationally at each other. Their minds began to regain order,
                        their nerves were quieted, their hearts forgot the tumult, and they could
                        think and talk and reason again. In the fierce ecstasy of seeing the
                        long-looked-for rescuers, they had forgotten their expressed desire to live
                        always on the island. Human nature had overcome sentiment and they rejoiced
                        in what they had regarded as a calamity an hour before. Now they realized
                        that a crisis had come.
                    "Hugh, will they take us away?" she cried, real anguish
                        mingling with triumphant joy.
                    "Shall we go or stay?" cried he, torn by two emotions.
                    "It may be the end of our happiness," she whispered,  pale as death. "I will stay here
                        forever, Hugh, if you like."
                    "Do you want to go?"
                    "I want to go and I want to stay. What shall we do?"
                    "Go! We shall be happy. Nothing shall part us,
                        darling."
                    "But Grace? What if she is alive?" she asked faintly.
                    "God grant she is. I'll throw myself at her feet and she
                        shall be made to understand," he said, but a nameless chill crossed
                        him.
                    "You would break her heart," moaned she. "Our
                        poor, poor wedding day."
                    "There will be another glad and joyous day," he said,
                        trying to find heart.
                    "I will go where you go, Hugh," she said.
                    A few long sweeps of the oars and the white boat, with its blue trimmings,
                        shot upon the beach, and the officer leaped forward to meet the waiting
                        pair.
                    "I am Ensign Carruthers, United States cruiser Winnetka, Captain Hildebrand commanding. We saw your flag and were
                        considerably mystified," he said, doffing his cap to her Ladyship.
                        But Ridgeway, forgetting politeness, dignity and reserve, rushed up and
                        grabbed him by the hand, mad with the exuberance of joy.
                    "Saved! Saved! Saved!"
                    Carruthers, dumbfounded, looked from one to the other of the now frantic
                        couple. He saw white people dressed in most unusual garments, the woman
                        possessing  a gloriously beautiful face and
                        the air of royalty, the man bushy haired and stalwart, every inch a
                        gentleman and an American.
                    "What does this mean?" he demanded.
                    "You are the first white man we have seen in more than a
                        year," cried Hugh.
                    "We have seen none but savages," added she, tears of
                        happiness starting afresh down her cheeks.
                    "You were wrecked?" exclaimed the sailor, appalled.
                    It was an incoherent recital that the two poured into his ears, first one,
                        then the other talking excitedly, but it was not long before he was in
                        possession of all the facts.
                    "You were on the Tempest Queen," he cried, doubting his
                        ears.
                    "Was no one saved?" they cried breathlessly.
                    "The captain and five or six passengers, I think, were picked up,
                        almost starved, in a boat, some days after the wreck. All others were
                        lost."
                    "Who were the passengers?" asked Hugh, trembling with
                        eagerness.
                    "I don't recall the names."
                    "Was there a Miss Ridge among them?"
                    "Was Lord Huntingford saved?"
                    "I can't say as to the lady, but I know that Lord
                        Huntingford was lost. I remember the papers were full of headlines about him
                        and his young wife. His dead body was picked up by a steamer. She was not
                        found."
                    
                    "She has just been found," said Hugh. "This is
                        Lady Huntingford."
                    The Winnetka was on a three years' cruise. Her engines had broken
                        down a few days before, during a storm, and she was carried out of her
                        course. The machinery being repaired, she was now picking her way toward
                        Manila. The sailors were sent back to the warship, with information for the
                        commander, and Caruthers accompanied the joyous couple to the village. The
                        natives had seen the ship and the white men, and there was intense
                        excitement among them.
                    Then came the struggle for Hugh and Tennys Huntingford. For an hour they
                        wavered and then the die was cast. Back to the old world!
                    When it became known that the Izors who had done so much for them were to
                        leave the island on the big, strange thing of the deep, the greatest
                        consternation and grief ensued. Chattering disconsolately, the whole village
                        accompained the belongings of the Izors to the beach. Lady Tennys and
                        Ridgeway went among their savage friends with the promise to return some
                        day, a promise which they meant to fulfil.
                    "I'll have missionaries out here in a month,"
                        vowed Hugh, biting his lips and trying to speak calmly through the grip that
                        was choking him involuntarily.
                    King Pootoo, the picture of despair, stood knee-deep in the water. As the
                        sailors pushed off, he threw up his hands and wailed aloud; and then the
                        whole tribe  behind him fell grovelling in the
                        sand. Two white-robed figures flung themselves in the water and grasped the
                        gunwales as the boat moved away. The sailors tried to drive them off, but
                        they screamed and turned their pleading faces toward their mistress.
                    "Please take them in," she cried, and strong arms drew the
                        dusky women into the boat. They were Alzam and Nattoo, the devoted
                        hand-maidens of the beautiful Izor. Trembling and in fear of dire punishment
                        for their audacity, they sank to the bottom of the boat. Nor did they cease
                        their moaning until they were on the broad deck of the Winnetka, where astonishment overcame fear.
                    Slowly the boat moved away from the island of Nedra, just one year after its
                        new passengers had set foot on its shores. High upon the top of the tall
                        gate-post fluttered the frayed remnants of an American flag. The captain
                        pointed toward it, removed his cap proudly, and then there arose a mighty
                        cheer from the men on board the man o' war.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII
                    APPARITIONS
                    THE
                        Winnetka passed Corregidor Island and dropped anchor in
                        Manila harbor on the morning of June 1st. On the forward deck stood Hugh
                        Ridgeway and Tennys Huntingford. They went ashore with Captain Hildebrand,
                        Ensign Carruthers, the paymaster and several others. Another launch landed
                        their nondescript luggagetheir wedding possessionsand the faithful
                        handmaidens. The captain and his passengers went at once to shipping
                        quarters, where the man in charge was asked if he could produce a list of
                        those on board the Tempest Queen at the time she went
                        down.
                    "I have a list of those who left Aden and of those who were rescued.
                        Did you have friends on board?"
                    "Yes, we had friends," answered Hugh, in a choking voice.
                        "First, let me see a list of the lost." The clerk found
                        the book containing the list, alphabetically arranged, and placed it on the
                        desk before the trembling man and woman. Both had an insane desire to rush
                        from the office and back to the Winnetka, where they could
                        hide from the very knowledge they were seeking. In their hearts they were
                        wishing for the solitude and happiness of the Island of Nedra. The clerk,
                        observating  their anxiety, considerately
                        offered to read the names to them.
                    "No, I thank you; I'll look," said Hugh,
                        resolutely turning to the pages. Lady Tennys leaned weakly against the
                        counter and looked through blurred eyes at the racing lines of ink. Hugh
                        rapidly ran his fingers through the list, passing dozens of passengers they
                        had known. As the finger approached the "R's" it
                        moved more slowly, more tremblingly. "ReedReyerRidge!"
                        "Hugh Ridge, Chicago, Illinois, U. S. A." He grew sick
                        when he saw his own name among those who were dead.
                    "She was saved," he murmured, for there was but one Ridge
                        there.
                    "Look for Vernon," whispered his companion.
                    "Van CampValentineWilson." It was not therenor was
                        Veath's!
                    "Are they on the list?" asked the clerk.
                    "Let me see the names of those who were saved," said Hugh
                        bravely, joy and anxiety welling to the surface like twin bubbles.
                    "Two pages over, sir."
                    Over went the pages so ruthlessly that the scribe was in trepidation lest
                        they should be crumpled beyond redemption. Hugh read aloud in an unnatural
                        voice:
                    "CostelloHamiltonRidgeShadburnVeath."
                    His hand fell upon the page and his head dropped forward till his lips
                        touched the name that danced before his eyes.
                    
                    "Here it is! Here it is!" he shouted, hugging the book.
                    "Thank God!" cried she, tears rushing to her eyes. Together
                        they read and re-read the name, scarcely able to believe that she was truly
                        one of the few to escape. "And Henry Veath, too. Oh, Hugh, it is a
                        miraclea real miracle!"
                    "Old Veath saved her! I knew he would if he had a ghost of a chance.
                        Tennys, Tennys, I can't believe it is true." He was beside
                        himself in his excitement. Captain Hildebrand, the clerk, and the other
                        attachs looked on with happy smiles. In this moment of relief they forgot
                        completely that, in leaving the island, they had been filled with a sort of
                        dread lest they should find her who might come between them.
                    "We must find Veath," went on Hugh rapidly. "Is he
                        in Manila?"
                    "He is in the Government Building, sir," answered the
                        clerk. Already Hugh was edging toward the door, holding Lady Tennys by the
                        arm. "Is Mr. Veath a relative?"
                    "No; he's more than that. He's a friend. We were
                        on the Tempest Queen together when she went
                        down."
                    "You wereonthewhat did you say, sir?" gasped the clerk.
                    "He doesn't know who we are, Hugh."
                    "That's so. Add two more names to the list of saved and
                        scratch 'em off the other. Put down Lady Huntingford and Hugh
                        Ridge."
                    
                    The clerk's eyes bulged. Every man in the office came forward in
                        amazement.
                    "It's the truth," volunteered the Winnetka's captain. "I picked them up last
                        week."
                    "Where's the cable office? I must send a message to Miss
                        Ridge. When did she sail for the United States?"
                    "She hasn't sailed, sir. Her name is Vernon, and
                        she's been waiting in Manila for news of you ever since. Get some
                        water there, Cleary! He's going to faint." Ridgeway
                        collapsed against the counter, his face going deadly pale. Lady Tennys sank
                        into her chair, huddling limply as if to withstand a shock, while from her
                        stricken face two wide blue eyes centred themselves hopelessly on her
                        lover.
                    "Needn't mind the water. I'm all right,"
                        stammered Hugh, moving away with legs as stiff as rods. "Where is
                        she now?"
                    "At the home of her uncle, Mr. Coleman. There were seven of them
                        saved, after being buffeted about by the sea for three days in the boat in
                        which they left the wreck. When they were picked up by the Sea
                            Gull, they were almost dead with hunger, thirst and madness. It
                        seems Miss Vernon had written her uncle before sailing; and the letter,
                        coming by way of San Francisco, got here two or three weeks before she was
                        expected. Afterward, Mr. Coleman got the government to send ships out to
                        find the wreck. It was many weeks before Miss Vernon was fully
                        recovered."
                    "Thank you," muttered he. "Come, Lady Huntingford,
                             we will go to a hotel." She
                        arose and silently followed him to the door. The men in the office glanced
                        at each other, comletely mysteified, Captain Hildebrand as much so as any
                        one.
                    For a long time the occupants of a certain carriage looked straight before
                        them as if bereft of the power of speech or comprehension. A great abyss of
                        thought confronted them; they were apparently struggling on the edge,
                        utterly unable to grasp a single inspiration or idea.
                    "She's been waiting a year, Tennys. Do you know what that
                        means?"
                    "Yes, Hugh; I know too well. She has prayed and hoped and loved, and
                        now you are come to her. It means that she will be happyoh, so
                        happy!" murmured his white-lipped companion, cold as ice.
                    "But I can't go to her and tell her what we know. It would
                        kill her. I can't go to herit is impossible! I'd die if
                        she looked at me," he groaned.
                    "You must go to her," she said intensely. "She
                        will know you have been rescued. She will thank God and wait for you to come
                        to her. Think of that poor girl waiting, waiting, waiting for you, filled
                        with a joy that we can never know. Oh, I will not have you break her heart.
                        You shall go to her!"
                    "I cannot, I tell you! I cannot tell her that I love you! That would
                        be worse than any cruelty I can imagine."
                    "You are not to tell her that you love me. I release you, Hugh. You
                        were hers first; you are hers now. I  would
                        kill myself rather than take you from her. Go to hergo to her
                            at once. You must!" She was nervous, half-crazed, yet true
                        nobility shone above all like a gem of purest ray.
                    "Don't force me to go, Tennys," he pleaded, as she
                        left him to go to her room.
                    "Go now, Hughgo if you love me," she said, turning her
                        miserable face from him.
                    "But what is to become of youof me?" he protested.
                    "We must think only of her. Go! and bring her to see me here! I want
                        to tell her how happy I am that she had found you again;" and then
                        she was gone.
                    The dominant impulse was to rush after her, grasp her and carry her back to
                        the waves from which he had unwittingly saved her. Then the strong influence
                        that she had exerted over him, together with the spark of fair-mindedness
                        that remained, forced him to obey the dictates of honor. He slowly,
                        determinedly, dejectedly re-entered the carriage and started toward the
                        end.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIV
                    THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE
                    RIDGEWAY had been directed to the home of Mr. Henry
                        Coleman. He was never able to describe his emotions as he drove through the
                        streets toward that most important place in all the world at that hour. The
                        cab drew up in front of the rather pretentious home and he stepped forth,
                        dazed and uncertain, his knees stiff, his eyes set. Had some one shouted
                        "Run!" he would have fled with his resolution.
                    Every window in the home seemed to present Grace Vernon's glad face
                        to his misty eyes; she was in there somewhere, he knew, waiting as she had
                        been waiting for a whole year.
                    Slowly he mounted the steps and stood before the screen door. After what
                        semed an hour of deliberation, during which he sought to resurrect the
                        courage that had died, he timidly tapped on the casement with his knuckles.
                        The sound could not have been heard ten feet, yet to him it was loud enough
                        to wake people blocks away. There was no response and his heart, in its
                        cowardice, took a hopeful bound. No one at home! He turned to leave the
                        place, fearing that some one might appear to admit him before he could
                        retreat. At the top of the steps he paused, reasoning that if  no one was at home he could at least rap
                        again. His conscience would be easier for the extra effort. He rapped once
                        more, quite boldly. A man appeared in the doorway so suddenly that he caught
                        his breath and put out his hand to steady himself.
                    The screen flew open and Henry Veath grasped him by the arms, fairly dragging
                        him into the hallway.
                    "Hugh! Hugh! Is it really you?" For a moment he stood like
                        one suddenly gone mad.
                    "Henry, I can't believe it!" gasped Ridgeway. Both
                        of them stood looking at one another for more than a full minute.
                        "What a wonderful escape!" fell hazily from the
                        newcomer's stiff lips.
                    "How did you escape?" cried the other in the same breath.
                        Pale as ghosts they wrung each other's hands spasmodically, dazed
                        and bewildered.
                    "Where is Grace?" demanded Hugh.
                    "She is out just at present," said the other slowly and
                        with an effort. "Come in and sit down. She will be here
                        presently." He staggered as he drew back.
                    "Hashas my sister given up all hope of ever seeing me
                        again?" said Ridgeway. Their hands were still clasped.
                    "Miss Vernon feared that you were lost, Hugh," said Veath.
                        A cold perspiration was showing itself on his brow. "She has told
                        me all. How ill and white you look. Sit down here and I'll get you
                        some wine."
                    "Never mind, old man. I'm well enough. When will she
                        return? Great heaven, man, I can't wait!"  He sank limply into a chair. His
                        companion's heart was freezing.
                    "Be calm, old friend. She shall be sent for at once."
                    "Break it to her gently, Veath, break it to her gently,"
                        murmured Hugh.
                    Veath excused himself and left the room. In the hall, out of Hugh's
                        sight, he stopped, clenched his hands, closed his eyes and shiivered as if
                        his blood had turned to ice. Presently he returned to the room, having gone
                        no farther than the hall.
                    "I have sent for her," he said in a strange voice.
                    Grace was coming down stairs when Veath admitted Hugh. Startled and almost
                        completely prostrated, she fell back, where Veath found her when he went to
                        announce the news. Finally, with throbbing heart, she crept to the curtain
                        that hung in the door between the parlors and peered through at the two men.
                        Ridgeway was standing in the centre of the room, nervously handling a book
                        that lay on the table. His face was white and haggard; his tall, straight
                        figure was stooped and lifeless. Veath stood on the opposite side of the
                        table, just as pale and just as discomposed.
                    "Does she often speak of me?" she heard Hugh ask hoarsely.
                        The other did not answer at once.
                    "Frequently, Hugh, of course," he said finally.
                    "Anddoyouthink sheshe loves me as much as ever?" There was
                        fear in his voice: but poor Grace could only distinguish pathetic eagerness.
                        Veath was silent, his hands clasped behind his back, his throat  closed as by a vise. "Why
                        don't you answer? Does she still love me?"
                    Grace glanced at the drawn face of Henry Veath and saw there the struggle
                        that was going on in his mind. With a cry she tore aside the curtains and
                        rushed into the room, confronting the questioner and the questioned.
                    "Grace!" gasped the former, staggering back as if from the
                        effect of a mighty blow. Through his dizzy brain an instant later shot the
                        necessity for action of some kind. There stood Grace, swaying before him,
                        ready to fall. She loved him! He must clasp her to his heart as if he loved
                        her. This feeble impulse forced him forward, his arms extended.
                        "Don't be afraid, dear. I am not a ghost!"
                    Veath dropped into a chair near the window, and closed his eyes, his ears,
                        his heart.
                    "Oh, Hugh, Hugh," the girl moaned, putting her hands over
                        her face, even as he clasped her awkwardly, half-heartedly in his arms. He
                        was saying distressedly to himself: "She loves me! I cannot break
                        her heart!"
                    Neither moved for a full minute, and then Hugh drew her hands from her eyes,
                        his heart full of pity.
                    "Grace, look at me," he said. "Are you
                        happy?"
                    Their eyes met and there was no immediate answer. What each saw in the eyes
                        of the other was strange and puzzling. She saw something like hopeless
                        dread, struggling to suppress itself beneath a glassy film; he saw pitiful
                        fear, sorrow, shame, everything but the  glad
                        lovelight he had expected. If their hearts had been cold before, they were
                        freezing now.
                    "Happy?" she managed to articulate.
                        "Happy?"
                    "Yes, happy," he repeated as witlessly.
                    "Don't look at me, Hugh. Don't! I cannot bear
                        it," she wailed frantically, again placing her hands over her eyes.
                        His arms dropped from their unwilling position and he gasped in
                        amazement.
                    "What is it, Grace? What is the matter? What is it, Veath?"
                        he gasped. She sank to her knees on the floor and sobbed.
                    "Oh, Hugh! I am not worthy to be loved by you." He tried to
                        lift her to her feet, absolutely dumb with amazement.
                        "Don't! Don't! Let me lie here till you are gone.
                        I can't bear to have you see my face again.
                    "Grace!" he cried blankly.
                    "Oh, if I had been drowned this could have been avoided. Why
                        don't you say something, Henry? I cannot tell him." Veath
                        could only shake his head in response to Ridgeway's look of amazed
                        inquiry.
                    "Is she mad?" groaned the returned lover.
                    "Mad? No, I am not mad," she cried shrilly, desperately.
                        "Hugh, I know I will break your heart, but I must tell you. I
                        cannot deceive you. I cannot be as I once was to you."
                    "Cannot bedeceived meonce was" murmured he, bewildered.
                    "While I mourned for you as dead I learned to love another. Forgive
                        me, forgive me!" It was more than  a
                        minute before he could grasp the full extent of her confession and he could
                        not believe his ears.
                    Gradually his mind emerged from its oblivion and the joy that rushed to his
                        heart passed into every vein in his body. At his feet the unhappy girl; at
                        the window the rigid form of the man to whom he knew her love had turned; in
                        the centre of this tableau he stood, his head erect, his lungs full, his
                        face aglow.
                    "Say you will forgive me, Hugh. You would not want me, knowing what
                        you do."
                    "For Heaven's sake, Hugh," began Veath; but the
                        words choked him.
                    "So you love another," said Hugh slowly, and cleverly
                        concealing his elation at the unexpected change in the situation. He was not
                        without a sense of humor, and forgetting, for the moment, the seriousness of
                        her revelation, he could not resist the temptation to play the martyr.
                    "My dear girl," he went on with mock gravity, "I
                        would sacrifice my life to see you happy! Whoever he may be, I give you to
                        him. Be happy, Grace;" and with decided histrionic ability
                        concluded heart-brokenly: "Forget Hugh Ridgeway!"
                    A portrait of a buxom lady hanging on the wall received the full benefit of
                        his dejected glance; and she could have told the unhappy lovers that the
                        wretched man had winked at her most audaciously.
                    "When are you to be married?" he resumed solemnly.
                    "To-night," she choked out, then added quickly:
                    
                    "But I won't, HughI won't marry him if you
                        say"
                    "Not for the world! You must marry him, Grace, and I'll
                        bless you," he interrupted quickly, even eagerly. Then there came a
                        new thought: "Tell me truly, do you love him better than you loved
                        me?"
                    "I love him better than the world!"
                    "Thank God!" exclaimed the discarded lover devoutly.
                        "Give me your hand, Henry, old manthere is no one in all the world
                        whom I'd rather see get her than you. You saved her and you deserve
                        her. Take her and be good to her, that's all I ask; and think of me
                        once in a while, won't you? Good-by."
                    Without waiting for an answer he broke away, as if starting for the hall.
                    "Please don't go away like that!"
                    The cry of anguish came from Grace, and she threw herself sobbing on
                        Veath's breast.
                    Hugh turned like a flash. Contribution and the certainty of his power to
                        dispel her grief showed plainly in his face.
                    "Don't cry, Grace dear," he begged, going over to
                        them. "I was only fooling, dear. I'm not a bit
                        unhappy." Grace looked up wonderingly at him through her tears.
                        "You must take me for a brute," he stumbled on penitently.
                        "You seeyou seeerthe fact is, I'm in love
                        myself." He did not know he could be so embarrassed. Veath actually
                        staggered, and the girl's tear-stained face and blinking eyes were
                             suddenly lifted from the broad breast, to
                        be turned, in mute surprise, upon the speaker.
                    "What did you say?" she gasped.
                    "I'm in lovethe very worst way," he hurried on,
                        fingering his cap.
                    "And not with me?" she cried, as if it were beyond
                        belief.
                    "Well, you see, II thought you were drownedcouldn't blame
                        me for that, could you? SoIshe was awfully good and sweet andby George!
                        I'd like to know how a fellow could help it! You don't
                        know how happy I am that you are in love with Veath, and you don't
                        know how happy it will make her. We were to have been married a week ago
                        but" he gulped and could not go on.
                    Grace's eyes were sparkling, her voice was trembling with joy as she
                        cried, running to his side:
                    "Is it really truereally true? Oh, how happy I am! I was afraid you
                        would"
                    "And I was equally afraid that you mightWhoop!" exploded
                        Hugh, unable to restrain his riotous glee a second longer. Clasping her in
                        his arms, he kissed her fervently; and all three joining hands, danced about
                        the room like children, each so full of delight that there was no possible
                        means of expressing it, except by the craziest of antics.
                    "But who is she?" broke out Grace excitedly, as soon as she
                        could catch her breath.
                    "And where is shecan't we see her?" put in Veath,
                        slapping Hugh insanely on the back.
                    
                    "She's a goddess!" burst out Hugh, grabbing his
                        cap and running out of the room, shouting hilariously: "Follow on,
                        both of you, to the hotel, and see me worship at her shrine!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXV
                    HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF
                    HUGH lost no time on the ay back to the hotel. The lazy
                        driver awoke his lazy horse and, to the intense amazement of both, the
                        vehicle held together during the return trip. At least a dozen rattling
                        bumps over rough places in the street caused the driver to glance
                        apprehensively over his shoulder in the unusual fear that his fare and the
                        cab had parted company. For the first time in ten years he was sufficiently
                        interested to be surprised. It astonished him to find that the vehicle stuck
                        together as a whole.
                    On the way back, Hugh suddenly bethought himself of his financial condition.
                        He was attired in a suit of clothes belonging to Mr. Carruthers and the
                        garments fitted him well. In one of the pockets rested his small leather
                        purse. When he plunged into the sea on that memorable night a year ago it
                        contained a half dozen small American coins and some English money,
                        amounting in all to eleven dollars and thirty cents. Carefully he had
                        treasured this wealth on the island and he had come away with the principal
                        untouched. Now, as he jogged along in the cab, he emptied the contents of
                        the purse upon the seat.
                    "Eleven thirty," he mused. "A splended dowry. Not
                             enough to buy the ring. No flowers, no
                        winenothing but pins. My letter of credit is at the bottom of the sea.
                        Borrowed clothes on my back and home-made clothes on hers. I have a watch, a
                        knife, and a scarf pin. She has diamond rings and rubies, but she has no
                        hat. By Jove, it looks as thought I'll have to borrow money of
                        Veath, after all."
                    Lady Tennys was in her room, strangely calm and resigned. She was wondering
                        whether he would ever come back to her, whether she was ever to see him
                        again. Her tired, hopless brain was beginning to look forward to the dismal
                        future, the return to England, the desolate life in the society she now
                        despised, the endless regret of losing that which she had never hoped to
                        possessa man's love in exchange for her own. She kept to her room,
                        avoiding the curious stare of people, denying herself to the reporters and
                        correspondents, craving only the loneliness that made the hour dark for her.
                        It seemed to her that she had lived a lifetime since he went forth to find
                        the girl who had waited so long for him.
                    Then came the rush of footsteps in the hall. They were not those of the
                        slow-moving servants, they were nota vigorous thumping on the door was
                        followed by the cry of a strong, manly, vigorous voice. Her head swam, her
                        heart stood still, her lips grew white and she could utter no sound in
                        response.
                    He was coming at last to commit her to everlasting misery.
                    
                    The door flew open and Ridgeway bounded into the room. Before she could move,
                        he rushed over and drew her limp form from the chair, up into his strong
                        embrace. She heard a voice, tender and gladsome, as from afar off, singing
                        into her ear.
                    "Look up, darling! This is to be our wedding dayyours and mine! You
                        are minemine!"
                    The glad light slowly struggled back into her eyes, but it was as if she had
                        come from a death-like swoon. He poured into her dull ears the story of the
                        visit to Grace Vernon, but he was compelled to repeat it. Her ears were
                        unbelieving.
                    "Grace is coming here with Henry Veath," he said in the
                        end. "By Jove, I am happy!"
                    She held his face close to hers and looked deep into his eyes for a long,
                        long time.
                    "Are you sure?" she whispered at last. "Is it all
                        true?"
                    "They'll be here in half an hour; but I haven't
                        told them it was you they are going to see. She loves Veathloves him more
                        than she ever cared for me. I don't blame her, do you?
                        Veath's a manworthy of any woman's love and confidence.
                        Tennys, do you know what I've been thinking ever since I left them
                        fifteen minutes ago? I've been calling myself a cada downright
                        cad."
                    "And why, may I ask?"
                    "Because Veath isn't onethat's all."
                    "But you are a mana true, noble, enduring one. The year just gone
                        has changed you from the easy,  thoughtless
                        boy into the strong man that you are, just as it has made of me a
                        woman."
                    "I am no longer the harlequin?" he interposed eagerly.
                    "The harlequin's errand is accomplished, dear. The spangles
                        and glitter are gone. Pure gold has come in their stead. It won't
                        wear out. God has worked out this end for all of us. In His own good time He
                        rectifies our errors and points the new way."
                    "I am but a year older than when I began."
                    "It isn't time that makes the man."
                    "It's opportunity, after all. I wasn't a man when
                        I dragged Grace Vernon away from home; I was a foola callow boy
                        in"
                    "That was a year ago, Hugh, dear. What was I two years
                        ago?"
                    "A rich man's wife. I was a rich man's
                        son."
                    "You were the rich man's son by chance. I was a rich
                        man's wife from choice."
                    "History repeats itself with variations, dearest. Although I have
                        but eleven dollars and thirty cents in my purse, I have a million at home.
                        You don't mind, do you?"
                    "I suppose it was foreordained that I should always marry from
                        choice," she said with her most entrancing smile.
                    THE END.
                
            
        
        
            
            
        
    
