
     ----CITATION---- 
        Eggleston, Edward, 1837-1902. The Hoosier School-Boy: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2343
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                The Hoosier School-Boy
                
            
            
            
                
                    "COUSIN SUKEY," SAID LITTLE COLUMBUS,
                        "I WANT TO ASK A FAVOR OF YOU."
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    The Hoosier School-Boy
                
                BY
                    EDWARD EGGLESTON
                ILLUSTRATED
                
                    NEW YORK
                    CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
                    1883
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1883, By EDWARD EGGLESTON
                TROW'S
                     PRINTING AND BOOKBINDING COMPANY 201-213 East Twelfth Street
                     NEW YORK
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                    
                    The New Scholar 9
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                    
                    King Milkmaid 17
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                    
                    Answering Back 22
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER IV.
                    
                    Little Christopher Columbus 29
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER V.
                    
                    Whiling Away Time 36
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER VI.
                    
                    A Battle 41
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER VII.
                    
                    Hat-Ball and Bull-Pen 47
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER VIII.
                    
                    The Defender 54
                        
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IX.
                    
                    Pigeon Pot-Pie 60
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER X.
                    
                    Jack and His Mother 71
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XI.
                    
                    Columbus and His Friends 75
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XII.
                    
                    Greenbank Wakes Up 82
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XIII.
                    
                    Professor Susan 86
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XIV.
                    
                    Crowing After Victory 91
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XV.
                    
                    An Attempt to Collect 98
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XVI.
                    
                    An Exploring Expedition 105
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XVII.
                    
                    Housekeeping Experiences 109
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XVIII.
                    
                    Ghosts 118
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XIX.
                    
                    The Return Home 125
                        
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER XX.
                    
                    A Foot-Race for Money 133
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XXI.
                    
                    The New Teacher 142
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XXII.
                    
                    Chasing the Fox 147
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XXIII.
                    
                    Called to Account 154
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XXIV.
                    
                    An Apology 159
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XXV.
                    
                    King's Base and a Spelling-Lesson 165
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XXVI.
                    
                    Unclaimed Top-Strings 168
                        
                    
                        CHAPTER XXVII.
                    
                    The Last Day of School, and the Last Chapter of the Story 174
                        
                
            
            
            
                LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
                
                    "Cousin Sukey," said Little Columbus, "I want
                        to ask a favor of you." 
                            Frontispiece
                            
                        
                    
                    "Not There, Not There, My Child!" 33
                        
                    Jack Amusing the Small Boys with Stories of Hunting, Fishing, and
                        Frontier Adventure 37
                        
                    "The Landing of Christopher Columbus" 113
                        
                    Bob Holliday Carries Home His Friend 179
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE HOOSIER SCHOOL-BOY.
                
                    CHAPTER I.
                    THE NEW SCHOLAR.
                    While the larger boys in the village school of Greenbank
                        were having a game of "three old cat" before school-time,
                        there appeared on the playground a strange boy, carrying two books, a slate,
                        and an atlas under his arm.
                    He was evidently from the country, for he wore a suit of brown jeans, or
                        woolen homespun, made up in the natural color of the
                        "black" sheep, as we call it. He shyly sidled up to the
                        school-house door, and looked doubtfully at the boys who were playing;
                        watching the familiar game as though he had never seen it before.
                    The boys who had the "paddles" were standing on three
                        bases, while three others stood each behind a base and tossed the ball round
                        the triangle from one hole or base to another. The new-comer soon perceived
                        that, if one with a paddle, or bat, struck at the ball and missed it, and
                        the ball was caught directly, or "at the first  bounce," he gave up his bat to the one who had
                        "caught him out." When the ball was struck, it was called
                        a "tick," and when there was a tick, all the batters were
                        obliged to run one base to the left, and then the ball thrown between a
                        batter and the base to which he was running "crossed him
                        out," and obliged him to give up his "paddle" to
                        the one who threw the ball.
                    "Four old cat, "two old cat," and "five
                        old cat" are, as everybody knows, played in the same way, the
                        number of bases or holes increasing with the addition of each pair of
                        players.
                    It is probable that the game was oncesome hundreds of years ago, maybecalled
                        "three hole catch," and that the name was gradually
                        corrupted into "three hole cat," as it is still called in
                        the interior States, and then became changed by mistake to "three
                        old cat." It is, no doubt, an early form of our present game of
                        base-ball.
                    It was this game which the new boy watched, trying to get an inkling of how
                        it was played. He stood by the school-house door, and the girls who came in
                        were obliged to pass near him. Each of them stopped to scrape her shoes, or
                        rather the girls remembered the foot-scraper because they were curious to
                        see the newcomer. They cast furtive glances at him, noting his new suit of
                        brown clothes, his geography and atlas, his arithmetic, and, last of all,
                        his face.
                    
                    "There's a new scholar," said Peter Rose, or, as
                        he was called, "Pewee" Rose, a stout and stocky boy of
                        fourteen, who had just been caught out by another.
                    "I say, Greeny, how did you get so brown?" called out Will
                        Riley, a rather large, loose-jointed fellow.
                    Of course, all the boys laughed at this. Boys will sometimes laugh at any one
                        suffering torture, whether the victim be a persecuted cat or a persecuted
                        boy. The new boy made no answer, but Joanna Merwin, who, just at that
                        moment, happened to be scraping her shoes, saw that he grew red in the face
                        with a quick flush of anger.
                    "Don't stand there, Greeny, or the cows'll eat you
                        up!" called Riley, as he came round again to the base nearest to
                        the school-house.
                    Why the boys should have been amused at this speech, the new scholar could
                        not tellthe joke was neither new nor wittyonly impudent and coarse. But the
                        little boys about the door giggled.
                    "It's a pity something wouldn't eat you, Will
                        Riley you are good for nothing but to be mean." This sharp speech
                        came from a rather tall and graceful girl of sixteen, who came up at the
                        time, and who saw the annoyance of the new boy at Riley's insulting
                        words. Of course the boys laughed again. It was rare sport to hear pretty
                        Susan Lanham "take down" the impudent Riley.
                    "The bees will never eat you for honey, Susan," said Will.
                    
                    Susan met the titter of the playground with a quick flush of temper and a
                        fine look of scorn.
                    "Nothing would eat you, Will, unless, maybe, a turkey-buzzard, and a
                        very hungry one at that."
                    This sharp retort was uttered with a merry laugh of ridicule, and a graceful
                        toss of the head, as the mischievous girl passed into the school house.
                    "That settles you, Will," said Pewee Rose. And Bob Holliday
                        began singing, to a doleful tune: 
                            
                                "Poor old Pidy,
                                She died last Friday."
                            
                        
                    
                    Just then, the stern face of Mr. Ball, the master, appeared at the door; he
                        rapped sharply with his ferule, and called: "Books, books,
                        books!" The bats were dropped, and the boys and girls began
                        streaming into the school, but some of the boys managed to nudge Riley,
                        saying: 
                            
                                "Poor old creetur,
                                The turkey-buzzards eat her,"
                            
                         and such like soft and sweet speeches. Riley was vexed and angry, but
                        nobody was afraid of him, for a boy may be both big and mean and yet lack
                        courage.
                    The new boy did not go in at once, but stood silently and faced the inquiring
                        looks of the procession of boys as they filed into the school-room with
                        their faces flushed from the exercise and excitement of the games.
                    
                    "I can thrash him easy," thought Pewee Rose.
                    "He isn't a fellow to back down easily," said
                        Harvey Collins to his next neighbor.
                    Only good-natured, rough Bob Holliday stopped and spoke to the new-comer a
                        friendly word. All that he said was "Hello!" But how much
                        a boy can put into that word "Hello!" Bob put his whole
                        heart into it, and there was no boy in the school that had a bigger heart, a
                        bigger hand, or half so big a foot as Bob Holliday.
                    The village school-house was a long one built of red brick. It had taken the
                        place of the old log institution in which one generation of Greenbank
                        children had learned reading, writing, and Webster's spelling-book.
                        There were long, continuous writing-tables down the sides of the room, with
                        backless benches, so arranged that when the pupil was writing his face was
                        turned toward the wallthere was a door at each end, and a box stove stood in
                        the middle of the room, surrounded by a rectangle of four backless benches.
                        These benches were for the little fellows who did not write, and for others
                        when the cold should drive them nearer the stove.
                    The very worshipful master sat at the east end of the room, at one side of
                        the door; there was a blackboard a "new-fangled notion" in
                        1850at the other side of the door. Some of the older scholars, who could
                        afford private desks with lids to them, suitable for concealing  smuggled apples and maple-sugar, had places at
                        the other end of the room from the master. This arrangement was convenient
                        for quiet study, for talking on the fingers by signs, for munching apples or
                        gingerbread, and for passing little notes between the boys and girls.
                    When the school had settled a little, the master struck a sharp blow on his
                        desk for silence, and looked fiercely around the room, eager to find a
                        culprit on whom to wreak his ill-humor. Mr. Ball was one of those
                        oldfashioned teachers who gave the impression that he would rather beat a
                        boy than not, and would even like to eat one, if he could find a good
                        excuse. His eye lit upon the new scholar.
                    "Come here," he said, severely, and then he took his seat.
                    The new boy walked timidly up to a place in front of the master's
                        desk. He was not handsome, his face was thin, his eyebrows were prominent,
                        his mouth was rather large and good-humored, and there was that shy twinkle
                        about the corners of his eyes which always marks a funloving spirit. But his
                        was a serious, fine-grained face, with marks of suffering in it, and he had
                        the air of having been once a strong fellow; of late, evidently, shaken to
                        pieces by the ague.
                    "Where do you live?" demanded Mr. Ball.
                    "On Ferry Street."
                    "What do they call you?" This was said with a  contemptuous, rasping inflection that
                        irritated the new scholar. His eyes twinkled, partly with annoyance and
                        partly with mischief.
                    "They call me Jack, for the most
                        part,"then catching the titter that came from the girls'
                        side of the room, and frightened by the rising hurricane on the
                        master's face, he added quickly: "My name is John Dudley,
                        sir."
                    "Don't you try to show your smartness on me, young man. You
                        are a new-comer, and I let you off this time. Answer me that way again, and
                        you will remember it as long as you live." And the master glared at
                        him like a savage bull about to toss somebody over a fence.
                    The new boy turned pale, and dropped his head.
                    "How old are you?" "Thirteen."
                    "Have you ever been to school?" "Three
                        months."
                    "Three months. Do you know how to read?"
                    "Yes, sir," with a smile.
                    "Can you cipher?" "Yes, sir."
                    "In multiplication?" "Yes, sir."
                    "Long division?"
                    "Yes, sir; I've been half through fractions."
                    "You said you'd been to school but three months!"
                    "My father taught me."
                    There was just a touch of pride in his voice as he said thisa sense of
                        something superior about his father.  This bit
                        of pride angered the master, who liked to be thought to have a monopoly of
                        all the knowledge in the town.
                    "Where have you been living?"
                    "In the Indian Reserve, of late; I was born in Cincinnati."
                    "I didn't ask you where you were born. When I ask you a
                        question, answer that and no more."
                    "Yes, sir." There was a touch of something in the tone of
                        this reply that amused the school, and that made the master look up quickly
                        and suspiciously at Jack Dudley, but the expression on Jack's face
                        was as innocent as that of a cat who has just lapped the cream off the
                    milk.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II.
                    KING MILKMAID.
                    Pewee Rose, whose proper name was Peter
                        Rose, had also the nickname of King Pewee. He was about fourteen years old,
                        square built and active, of great strength for his size, and very proud of
                        the fact that no boy in town cared to attack him. He was not badtempered,
                        but he loved to be master, and there were a set of flatterers who followed
                        him, like jackals about a lion.
                    As often happens, Nature had built for King Pewee a very fine body, but had
                        forgotten to give him any mind to speak of. In any kind of chaff or banter,
                        at any sort of talk or play where a good head was worth more than a strong
                        arm and a broad back, King Pewee was sure to have the worst of it. A very
                        convenient partnership had therefore grown up between him and Will Riley.
                        Riley had muscle enough, but Nature had made him meanspirited. He hadnot
                        exactly witbut a facility for using his tongue, which he found some
                        difficulty in displaying, through fear of other boys' fists. By
                        forming a friendship with Pewee Rose, the two managed to keep in fear the
                        greater part of the school. Will's rough  tongue, together with Pewee's rude fists, were enough
                        to bully almost any boy. They let Harvey Collins alone, because he was
                        older, and, keeping to himself, awed them by his dignity; good-natured Bob
                        Holliday, also, was big enough to take care of himself. But the rest were
                        all as much afraid of Pewee as they were of the master, and as Riley managed
                        Pewee, it behooved them to be afraid of the prime minister, Riley, as well
                        as of King Pewee.
                    From the first day that Jack Dudley entered the school, dressed in brown
                        jeans, Will Riley marked him for a victim. The air of refinement about his
                        face showed him to be a suitable person for teasing.
                    Riley called him "milksop," and
                        "sap-head;" words which seemed to the dull intellect of
                        King Pewee exceedingly witty. And as Pewee was Riley's defender, he
                        felt as proud of these rude nicknames as he would had he invented them and
                        taken out a patent.
                    But Riley's greatest stroke of wit came one morning when he caught
                        Jack Dudley milking the cow. In the village of Greenbank, milking a cow was
                        regarded as a woman's work; and foolish men and boys are like
                        savages, very much ashamed to be found doing a woman's work. Fools
                        always think something else more disgraceful than idleness. So, having seen
                        Jack milking, Riley came to school happy. He had an arrow to shoot that
                        would give great delight to the small boys.
                    
                    "Good-morning, milkmaid!" he said to Jack Dudley, as he
                        entered the school-house before school. "You milk the cow at your
                        house, do you? Where's your apron?"
                    "Oh-h! Milkmaid! milkmaid! That's a good one,"
                        chimed in Pewee Rose and all his set.
                    Jack changed color.
                    "Well, what if I do milk my mother's cow? I don't
                        milk anybody's cow but ours, do I? Do you think I'm
                        ashamed of it? I'd be ashamed not to. I can" but he
                        stopped a minute and blushed"I can wash dishes, and make good
                        pancakes, too. Now if you want to make fun, why, make fun. I don't
                        care." But he did care, else why should his voice choke in that
                        way?
                    "Oh, girl-boy; a pretty girl-boy you are" but here Will
                        Riley stopped and stammered. There right in front of him was the smiling
                        face of Susan Lanham, with a look in it which made him suddenly remember
                        something. Susan had heard all the conversation, and now she came around in
                        front of Will, while all the other girls clustered about her with a vague
                        expectation of sport.
                    "Come, Pewee, let's play ball," said Will.
                    "Ah, you're running away, now; you're afraid of a
                        girl," said Susan, with a cutting little laugh, and a toss of her
                        black curls over her shoulder.
                    Will had already started for the ball-ground, but at this taunt he turned
                        back, thrust his hands into his pockets,  put
                        on a swagger, and stammered: "No, I'm not afraid of a
                        girl, either."
                    "That's about all that he isn't afraid
                        of," said Bob Holliday.
                    "Oh! you're not afraid of a girl?" said Susan.
                        "What did you run away for, when you saw me? You know that Pewee
                        won't fight a girl. You're afraid of anybody that Pewee
                        can't whip."
                    "You've got an awful tongue, Susan. We'll call you
                        Sassy Susan," said Will, laughing at his own joke.
                    "Oh, it isn't my tongue, you're afraid of now. You
                        know I can tell on you. I saw you drive your cow into the stable last week.
                        You were ashamed to milk outside, but you looked all around"
                    "I didn't do it. How could you see? It was dark,"
                        and Will giggled foolishly, seeing all at once that he had betrayed himself.
                    "It was nearly dark, but I happened to be where I could see. And as
                        I was coming back, a few minutes after, I saw you come out with a pail of
                        milk, and look around you like a sneak-thief. You saw me and hurried away.
                        You are such a coward that you are ashamed to do a little honest work.
                        Milkmaid! Girlboy! Coward! And Pewee Rose lets you lead him around by the
                        nose!"
                    "You'd better be careful what you say, Susan,"
                        said Pewee, threateningly.
                    
                    "You won't touch me. You go about bullying little boys, and
                        calling yourself King Pewee, but you can't do a sum in long
                        division, nor in short subtraction, for that matter, and you let fellows
                        like Riley make a fool of you. Your father's poor, and your mother
                        can't keep a girl, and you ought to be ashamed to let her milk the
                        cow. Who milked your cow this morning, Pewee?"
                    "I don't know," said the king, looking like the
                        king's fool.
                    "You did it," said Susan. "Don't deny it.
                        Then you come here and call a strange boy a milkmaid!"
                    "Well, I didn't milk in the street, anyway, and he
                        did." At this, all laughed aloud, and Susan's victory was
                        complete. She only said, with a pretty toss of her head, as she turned away:
                        "King Milkmaid!"
                    Pewee found the nickname likely to stick. He was obliged to declare on the
                        playground the next day, that he would "thrash" any boy
                        that said anything about milkmaids. After that, he heard no more of it. But
                        one morning he found "King Milkmaid" written on the door
                        of his father's cow-stable. Some boy who dared not attack Pewee,
                        had vented his irritation by writing the hateful words on the stable, and on
                        the fence-corners near the school-house, and even on the blackboard.
                    Pewee could not fight with Susan Lanham, but he made up his mind to punish
                        the new scholar when he should have a chance. He must give somebody a
                        beating.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III.
                    ANSWERING BACK.
                    IT is hard for one boy to make a fight. Even your bully does not like to
                        "pitch on" an inoffensive schoolmate. You remember
                        sop's fable of the wolf and the lamb, and what pains the wolf took
                        to pick a quarrel with the lamb. It was a little hard for Pewee to fight
                        with a boy who walked quietly to and from the school, without giving anybody
                        cause for offence.
                    But the chief reason why Pewee did not attack him with his fists was that
                        both he and Riley had found out that Jack Dudley could help them over a hard
                        place in their lessons better than anybody else. And notwithstanding their
                        continual persecution of Jack, they were mean enough to ask his assistance,
                        and he, hoping to bring about peace by good-nature, helped them to get out
                        their geography and arithmetic almost every day. Unable to appreciate this,
                        they were both convinced that Jack only did it because he was afraid of
                        them, and as they found it rare sport to abuse him, they kept it up. By
                        their influence Jack was shut out of the plays. A greenhorn would spoil the
                        game, they said. What did a  boy that had lived
                        on Wildcat Creek, in the Indian Reserve, know about playing bull-pen, or
                        prisoner's base, or shinny? If he was brought in, they would go
                        out.
                    But the girls, and the small boys, and good-hearted Bob Holliday liked
                        Jack's company very much. Yet, Jack was a boy, and he often longed
                        to play games with the others. He felt very sure that he could dodge and run
                        in "bull-pen" as well as any of them. He was very tired of
                        Riley's continual ridicule, which grew worse as Riley saw in him a
                        rival in influence with the smaller boys.
                    "Catch Will alone sometimes," said Bob Holliday,
                        "when Pewee isn't with him, and then thrash him.
                        He'll back right down if you bristle up to him. If Pewee makes a
                        fuss about it, I'll look after Pewee. I'm bigger than he
                        is, and he won't fight with me. What do you say?"
                    "I sha'n't fight unless I have to."
                    "Afraid?" asked Bob, laughing.
                    "It isn't that. I don't think I'm much
                        afraid, although I don't like to be pounded or to pound anybody. I
                        think I'd rather be whipped than to be made fun of, though. But my
                        father used to say that people who fight generally do so because they are
                        afraid of somebody else, more than they are of the one they fight
                        with."
                    
                    "I believe that's a fact," said Bob. "But
                        Riley aches for a good thrashing."
                    "I know that, and I feel like giving him one, or taking one myself,
                        and I think I shall fight him before I've done. But Father used to
                        say that fists could never settle between right and wrong. They only show
                        which is the stronger, and it is generally the mean one that gets the best
                        of it."
                    "That's as sure as shootin'," said Bob.
                        "Pewee could use you up. Pewee thinks he's the king, but
                        laws! he's only Riley's bull-dog. Riley is afraid of him,
                        but he manages to keep the dog on his side all the time."
                    "My father used to say," said Jack, "that brutes
                        could fight with force, but men ought to use their wits."
                    "You seem to think a good deal of what your father says,like it was
                        your Bible, you know."
                    "My father's dead," replied Jack.
                    "Oh, that's why. Boys don't always pay attention
                        to what their father says when he's alive."
                    "Oh, but then my father was" Here Jack checked himself, for
                        fear of seeming to boast. "You see," he went on,
                        "my father knew a great deal. He was so busy with his books that he
                        lost 'most all his money, and then we moved to the Indian Reserve,
                        and there he took the fever and died; and then we came down here, where we
                        owned a house, so that I could go to school."
                    
                    "Why don't you give Will Riley as good as he
                        sends?" said Bob, wishing to get away from melancholy subjects.
                        "You have got as good a tongue as his."
                    "I haven't his stock of bad words though."
                    "You've got a power of fun in you, though,you keep
                        everybody laughing when you want to, and if you'd only turn the
                        pumps on him once, he'd howl like a yellow dog that's had
                        a quart o' hot suds poured over him out of a neighbor's
                        window. Use your wits, like your father said. You've lived in the
                        woods till you're as shy as a flying-squirrel. All you've
                        got to do is to talk up and take it rough and tumble, like the rest of the
                        world. Riley can't bear to be laughed at, and you can make him
                        ridiculous as easy as not."
                    The next day, at the noon recess, about the time that Jack had finished
                        helping Bob Holliday to find some places on the map, there came up a little
                        shower, and the boys took refuge in the school-house. They must have some
                        amusement, so Riley began his old abuse.
                    "Well, greenhorn from the Wildcat, where's the black sheep
                        you stole that suit of clothes from?"
                    "I hear him bleat now," said Jack,"about the
                        blackest sheep I have ever seen."
                    "You've heard the truth for once, Riley," said Bob
                        Holliday.
                    Riley, who was as vain as a peacock, was very much mortified by the shout of
                        applause with which this little  retort of
                        Jack's was greeted. It was not a case in which he could call in
                        King Pewee. The king, for his part, shut up his fists and looked silly,
                        while Jack took courage to keep up the battle.
                    But Riley tried again.
                    "I say, Wildcat, you think you're smart, but
                        you're a double-distilled idiot, and haven't got brains
                        enough to be sensible of your misery."
                    This kind of outburst on Riley's part always brought a laugh from
                        the school. But before the laugh had died down, Jack Dudley took the word,
                        saying, in a dry and quizzical way:
                    "Don't you try to claim kin with me that way, Riley. No
                        use; I won't stand it. I don't belong to your family.
                        I'm neither a fool nor a coward."
                    "Hurrah!" shouted Bob Holliday, bringing down first one and
                        then the other of his big feet on the floor. "It's your
                        put-in now, Riley."
                    "Don't be backward in coming forward, Will, as the Irish
                        priest said to his people," came from grave Harvey Collins, who
                        here looked up from his book, thoroughly enjoying the bully's
                        discomfiture.
                    "That's awfully good," said Joanna Merwin,
                        clasping her hands and giggling with delight.
                    King Pewee doubled up his fists and looked at Riley to see if he ought to try
                        his sort of wit on Jack. If a frog, being pelted to death by cruel boys,
                        should turn  and pelt them again, they could
                        not be more surprised than were Riley and King Pewee at Jack's
                        repartees.
                    "You'd better be careful what you say to Will
                        Riley," said Pewee. "I stand by him."
                    But Jack's blood was up now, and he was not to be scared.
                    "All the more shame to him," said Jack. "Look at
                        me, shaken all to pieces with the fever and ague on the Wildcat, and look at
                        that great big, bony coward of a Riley. I've done him no harm, but
                        he wants to abuse me, and he's afraid of me. He daren't
                        touch me. He has to coax you to stand by him, to protect him from poor
                        little me. He's a great big"
                    "Calf," broke in Bob Holliday, with a laugh.
                    "You'd better be careful," said Pewee to Jack,
                        rising to his feet. "I stand by Riley."
                    "Will you defend him if I hit him?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Well, then, I won't hit him. But you don't mean
                        that he is to abuse me, while I am not allowed to answer back a
                        word?"
                    "Well" said Pewee, hesitatingly.
                    "Well," said Bob Holliday, hotly, "I say that Jack
                        has just as good a right to talk with his tongue as Riley. Stand by Riley if
                        he's hit, Pewee: he needs it. But don't you try to shut up
                        Jack." And Bob got up and put his broad hand on Jack's
                        shoulder. Nobody had  ever seen the big fellow
                        angry before, and the excitement was very great. The girls clapped their
                        hands.
                    "Good for you, Bob, I say," came from Susan Lanham, and
                        poor ungainly Bob blushed to his hair to find himself the hero of the girls.
                    "I don't mean to shut up Jack," said Pewee,
                        looking at Bob's size, "but I stand by Riley."
                    "Well, do your standing sitting down, then," said Susan.
                        "I'll get a milking-stool for you, if that'll
                        keep you quiet."
                    It was well that the master came in just then, or Pewee would have had to
                        fight somebody or burst.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV.
                    LITTLE CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS.
                    JACK'S life in school was much more endurable now
                        that he had a friend in Bob Holliday. Bob had spent his time in hard work
                        and in rough surroundings, but he had a gentleman's soul, although
                        his manners and speech were rude. More and more Jack found himself drawn to
                        him. Harvey Collins asked Jack to walk down to the river-bank with him at
                        recess. Both Harvey and Bob soon liked Jack, who found himself no longer
                        lonely. The girls also sought his advice about their lessons, and the
                        younger boys were inclined to come over to his side.
                    As winter came on, country boys, anxious to learn something about
                        "reading, writing, and ciphering," came into the school.
                        Each of these new-comers had to go through a certain amount of teasing from
                        Riley and of bullying from Pewee.
                    One frosty morning in December there appeared among the new scholars a
                        strange little fellow, with a large head, long straight hair, an emaciated
                        body, and legs that looked like reeds, they were so slender. His clothes
                        were worn and patched, and he had the look of 
                        having been frost-bitten. He could not have been more than ten years old, to
                        judge by his size, but there was a look of premature oldness in his face.
                    "Come here!" said the master, when he caught sight of him.
                        "What is your name?" And Mr. Ball took out his book to
                        register the new-comer, with much the same relish that the Giant Despair
                        showed when he had bagged a fresh pilgrim.
                    "Columbus Risdale." The new-comer spoke in a shrill, piping
                        voice, as strange as his weird face and withered body.
                    "Is that your full name?" asked the master.
                    "No, sir," piped the strange little creature.
                    "Give your full name," said Mr. Ball, sternly.
                    "My name is Christopher Columbus George Washington Marquis de
                        Lafayette Risdale." The poor lad was the victim of that mania which
                        some people have for "naming after" great men. His little
                        shrunken body and high, piping voice made his name seem so incongruous that
                        all the school tittered, and many laughed outright. But the dignified and
                        eccentric little fellow did not observe it.
                    "Can you read?"
                    "Yes, sir," squeaked the lad, more shrilly than ever.
                    "Umph," said the master, with a look of doubt on his face.
                        "In the first reader?"
                    "No, sir; in the fourth reader."
                    
                    Even the master could not conceal his look of astonishment at this claim. At
                        that day, the fourth reader class was the highest in the school, and
                        contained only the largest scholars. The school laughed at the bare notion
                        of little Christopher Columbus reading in the fourth reader, and the little
                        fellow looked around the room, puzzled to guess the cause of the merriment.
                    "We'll try you," said the master, with suspicion.
                        When the fourth-reader class was called, and Harvey Collins and Susan Lanham
                        and some others of the nearly grown-up pupils came forward, with Jack Dudley
                        as quite the youngest of the class, the great-eyed, emaciated little
                        Columbus Risdale picked himself up on his pipestems and took his place at
                        the end of this row.
                    It was too funny for anything!
                    Will Riley and Pewee and other large scholars, who were yet reading in that
                        old McGuffey's Third Reader, which had a solitary picture of
                        Bonaparte crossing the Alps, looked with no kindly eyes on this preposterous
                        infant in the class ahead of them.
                    The piece to be read was the poem of Mrs. Hemans's called
                        "The Better Land." Poems like this one are rather out of
                        fashion nowadays, and people are inclined to laugh a little at Mrs. Hemans.
                        But thirty years ago her religious and sentimental poetry was greatly
                        esteemed. This one presented no difficulty to the readers. In that day,
                        little or no attention was paid to 
                        inflectionthe main endeavor being to pronounce the words without hesitation
                        or slip, and to "mind the stops." Each one of the class
                        read a stanza ending with a line: 
                            
                                "Not there, not there, my child!"
                            
                        
                    
                    The poem was exhausted before all had read, so that it was necessary to begin
                        over again in order to give each one his turn. All waited to hear the little
                        Columbus read. When it came his turn, the school was as still as death. The
                        master, wishing to test him, told him, with something like a sneer, that he
                        could read three stanzas, or "verses," as Mr. Ball called
                        them.
                    The little chap squared his toes, threw his head back, and more fluently even
                        than the rest, he read, in his shrill, eager voice, the remaining lines,
                        winding up each stanza in a condescending tone, as he read: 
                            
                                "Not there, not there, my child!"
                            
                        
                    
                    The effect of this from the hundred-year-old baby was so striking and so
                        ludicrous that everybody was amused, while all were surprised at the
                        excellence of his reading. The master proceeded, however, to whip one or two
                        of the boys for laughing.
                    When recess-time arrived, Susan Lanham came to Jack with a request.
                    "I wish you'd look after little Lummy Risdale.
                        He's a sort of cousin of my mother's. He is as innocent
                        and helpless as the babes in the wood."
                    
                    
                        "NOT THERE, NOT THERE, MY CHILD!"
                    
                    
                    "I'll take care of him," said Jack.
                    So he took the little fellow walking away from the school-house; Will Riley
                        and some of the others calling after them: "Not there, not there,
                        my child!"
                    But Columbus did not lay their taunts to heart. He was soon busy talking to
                        Jack about things in the country, and things in town. On their return,
                        Riley, crying out: "Not there, my child!" threw a
                        snow-ball from a distance of ten feet and struck the poor little Christopher
                        Columbus George Washington Lafayette so severe a blow as to throw him off
                        his feet. Quick as a flash, Jack charged on Riley, and sent a snow-ball into
                        his face. An instant later, he tripped him with his foot and rolled the big,
                        scared fellow into the snow and washed his face well, leaving half a
                        snow-bank down his back.
                    "What makes you so savage?" whined Riley. "I
                        didn't snow-ball you." And Riley looked around for Pewee,
                        who was on the other side of the school-house, and out of sight of the
                        scuffle.
                    "No, you daren't snow-ball me," said Jack,
                        squeezing another ball and throwing it into Riley's shirt-front
                        with a certainty of aim that showed that he knew how to play ball.
                        "Take that one, too, and if you bother Lum Risdale again,
                        I'll make you pay for it. Take a boy of your size." And
                        with that he moulded yet another ball, but Riley retreated to the other side
                        of the school-house.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V.
                    WHILING AWAY TIME.
                    Excluded from the plays of the older fellows, Jack drew
                        around him a circle of small boys, who were always glad to be amused with
                        the stories of hunting, fishing, and frontier adventure that he had heard
                        from old pioneers on Wildeat Creek. Sometimes he played
                        "teetah-toe, three in a row," with the girls, using a
                        slate and pencil in a way well known to all school-children. And he also
                        showed them a better kind of "tee-tah-toe," learned on the
                        Wildcat, and which may have been in the first place an Indian game, as it is
                        played with grains of Indian corn. A piece of board is grooved with a
                        jack-knife in the manner shown in the diagram.
                    
                        DIAGRAM OF TEE-TAH-TOR BOARD.
                    
                    One player has three red or yellow grains of corn, and the other an equal
                        number of white ones. The player who won the last game has the
                        "go"that is, he first puts down a grain of corn at any
                        place where the lines intersect, but usually in the middle, as that is the
                        best point. Then the other player puts down one, and 
                        
                            JACK AMUSING THE SMALL BOYS WITH STORIES OF HUNTING,
                                FISHING, AND FRONTIER ADVENTURE.
                        
                         so on until all are down. After this, the
                        players move alternately along any of the lines, in any direction, to the
                        next intersection, provided it is not already occupied. The one who first
                        succeeds in getting his three grains in a row wins the point, and the board
                        is cleared for a new start. As there are always three vacant points, and as
                        the rows may be formed in any direction along any of the lines, the game
                        gives a chance for more variety of combinations than one would expect from
                        its appearance.
                    Jack had also an arithmetical puzzle which he had learned from his father,
                        and which many of the readers of this story will know, perhaps.
                    "Set down any number, without letting me know what it is,"
                        said he to Joanna Merwin.
                    She set down a number.
                    "Now add twelve and multiply by two."
                    "Well, that is done," said Joanna.
                    "Divide by four, subtract half of the number first set down, and
                        your answer will be six."
                    "Oh, but how did you know that I put down sixtyfour?" said
                        Joanna.
                    "I didn't," said Jack.
                    "How could you tell the answer, then?"
                    "That's for you to find out."
                    This puzzle excited a great deal of curiosity. To add to the wonder of the
                        scholars, Jack gave each time a different number to be added in, and
                        sometimes he  varied the multiplying and
                        dividing. Harvey Collins, who was of a studious turn, puzzled over it a long
                        time, and at last he found it out; but he did not tell the secret. He
                        contented himself with giving out a number to Jack and telling his result.
                        To the rest it was quite miraculous, and Riley turned green with jealousy
                        when he found the girls and boys refusing to listen to his jokes, but
                        gathering about Jack to test his ability to "guess the
                        answer," as they phrased it. Riley said he knew how it was done,
                        and he was even foolish enough to try to do it, by watching the
                        slate-pencil, or by sheer guessing, but this only brought him into ridicule.
                    "Try me once," said the little C. C. G. W. M. de L.
                        Risdale, and Jack let Columbus set down a figure and carry it through the
                        various processes until he told him the result. Lummy grew excited, pushed
                        his thin hands up into his hair, looked at his slate a minute, and then
                        squeaked out:
                    "Ohlet me seeyesnoyesOh, I see! Your answer is just half the amount
                        added in, because you have"
                    But there Jack placed his hand over Columbus's mouth.
                    "You can see through a pine door, Lummy, but you mustn't
                        let out my secret," he said.
                    But Jack had a boy's heart in him, and he longed for some more
                        boy-like amusement.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI.
                    A BATTLE.
                    One morning, when Jack proposed to play a game of ball
                        with the boys, Riley and Pewee came up and entered the game, and objected.
                    "It isn't interesting to play with greenhorns,"
                        said Will. "If Jack plays, little Christopher Columbus Andsoforth
                        will want to play, too; and then there'll be two babies to teach. I
                        can't be always helping babies. Let Jack play two-hole cat or
                        Anthony-over with the little fellows." To which answer Pewee
                        assented, of course.
                    That day at noon Riley came to Jack, with a most gentle tone and winning
                        manner, and whiningly begged Jack to show him how to divide 770 by 14.
                    "It isn't interesting to show greenhorns," said
                        Jack, mimicking Riley's tone on the playground that morning.
                        "If I show you, Pewee Rose will want me to show him; then
                        there'll be two babies to teach. I can't be always helping
                        babies. Go and play two-hole cat with the First-Reader boys."
                    That afternoon, Mr. Ball had the satisfaction of using his new beech switches
                        on both Riley and Pewee, though indeed Pewee did not deserve to be punished
                        for not getting  his lesson. It was
                        Nature's doing that his head, like a goat's, was made for
                        butting and not for thinking.
                    But if he had to take whippings from the master and his father, he made it a
                        rule to get satisfaction out of somebody else. If Jack had helped him he
                        wouldn't have missed. If he had not missed his lesson badly, Mr.
                        Ball would not have whipped him. It would be inconvenient to whip Mr. Ball
                        in return, but Jack would be easy to manage, and as somebody must be
                        whipped, it fell to Jack's lot to take it.
                    King Pewee did not fall upon his victim at the school-house doorthis would
                        have insured him another beating from the master. Nor did he attack Jack
                        while Bob Holliday was with him. Bob was big and stronga great fellow of
                        sixteen. But after Jack had passed the gate of Bob's house, and was
                        walking on toward home alone, Pewee came out from behind an alley fence,
                        accompanied by Ben Berry and Will Riley.
                    "I'm going to settle with you now," said King
                        Pewee, sidling up to Jack like an angry bull-dog.
                    It was not a bright prospect for Jack, and he cast about him for a chance to
                        escape a brutal encounter with such a bully, and yet avoid actually running
                        away.
                    "Well," said Jack, "if I must fight, I must. But I
                        suppose you won't let Riley and Berry help you."
                    "No, I'll fight fair." And Pewee threw off his
                        coat, while Jack did the same.
                    
                    "You'll quit when I say 'enough,'
                        won't you?" said Jack.
                    "Yes, I'll fight fair, and hold up when you've got
                        enough."
                    "Well, then, for that matter, I've got enough now.
                        I'll take the will for the deed, and just say
                        'enough' before you begin," and he turned to pick
                        up his coat.
                    "No, you don't get off that way," said Pewee.
                        "You've got to stand up and see who is the best man, or
                        I'll kick you all the way home."
                    "Didn't you ever hear about Davy Crockett's
                        'coon?" said Jack. "When the 'coon saw
                        him taking aim, it said: 'Is that you, Crockett? Well,
                        don't fireI'll come down anyway. I know you'll
                        hit anything you shoot at.' Now, I'm that 'coon.
                        If it was anybody but you, I'd fight. But as it's you,
                        Pewee, I might just as well come down before you begin."
                    Pewee was flattered by this way of putting the question. Had he been alone,
                        Jack would have escaped. But Will Riley, remembering all he had endured from
                        Jack's retorts, said:
                    "Oh, give it to him, Pewee; he's always making
                        trouble."
                    At which Pewee squared himself off, doubled up his fists, and came at the
                        slenderer Jack. The latter prepared to meet him, but, after all, it was hard
                        for Pewee to beat so good-humored a fellow as Jack. The  king's heart failed him, and suddenly he backed off,
                        saying:
                    "If you'll agree to help Riley and me out with our lessons
                        hereafter, I'll let you off. If you don't, I'll
                        thrash you within an inch of your life." And Pewee stood ready to
                        begin.
                    Jack wanted to escape the merciless beating that Pewee had in store for him.
                        But it was quite impossible for him to submit under a threat. So he
                        answered:
                    "If you and Riley will treat me as you ought to, I'll help
                        you when you ask me, as I always have. But even if you pound me into jelly I
                        won't agree to help you, unless you treat me right. I
                        won't be bullied into helping you."
                    "Give it to him, Pewee," said Ben Berry;
                        "he's too sassy."
                    Pewee was a rather good-natured doghe had to be set on. He now began to
                        strike at Jack. Whether he was to be killed or not, Jack did not know, but
                        he was resolved not to submit to the bully. Yet he could not do much at
                        defence against Pewee's hard fists. However, Jack was active and
                        had long limbs; he soon saw that he must do something more than stand up to
                        be beaten. So, when King Pewee, fighting in the irregular Western fashion,
                        and hoping to get a decided advantage at once, rushed upon Jack and pulled
                        his head forward, Jack stooped lower than his enemy expected, and, thrusting
                             his head between Pewee's knees,
                        shoved his legs from under him, and by using all his strength threw Pewee
                        over his own back, so that the king's nose and eyes fell into the
                        dust of the village street.
                    "I'll pay you for that," growled Pewee, as he
                        recovered himself, now thoroughly infuriated; and with a single blow he sent
                        Jack flat on his back, and then proceeded to pound him. Jack could do
                        nothing now but shelter his eyes from Pewee's blows.
                    Joanna Merwin had seen the beginning of the battle from her father's
                        house, and feeling sure that Jack would be killed, she had run swiftly down
                        the garden walk to the back gate, through which she slipped into the alley;
                        and then she hurried on, as fast as her feet would carry her, to the
                        blacksmith-shop of Pewee Rose's father.
                    "Oh, please, Mr. Rose, come quick! Pewee's just killing a
                        boy in the street."
                    "Vitin' ag'in," said Mr. Rose, who was a
                        Pennsylvanian from the limestone country, and spoke English with difficulty.
                        "He ees a leetle ruffen, dat poy. I'll see apout him right
                        avay a'ready, may be."
                    And without waiting to put off his leathern apron, he walked briskly in the
                        direction indicated by Joanna. Pewee was hammering Jack without pity, when
                        suddenly he was caught by the collar and lifted sharply to his feet.
                    "Wot you doin' down dare in de dirt wunst a'ready?
                        Hey?" said Mr. Rose, as he shook his son with the full  force of his right arm, and cuffed him with
                        his left hand. "Didn't I dells you I'd gill you
                        some day if you didn't gwit vitin' mit oder poys,
                        a'ready?"
                    "He commenced it," whimpered Pewee.
                    "You dells a pig lie a'ready, I beleefs, Peter, and
                        I'll whip you furlyin' besides wunst more. Fellers like
                            him," pointing to Jack, who was brushing the
                        dust off his clothes, "fellers like him don't gommence on
                        such a poy as you. You're such anoder viter I never seed."
                        And he shook Pewee savagely.
                    "I won't do it no more," begged Pewee"
                        'pon my word and honor I won't."
                    "Oh, you don't gits off dat away no more, a'ready.
                        You know what I'll giff you when I git you home, you leedle ruffen.
                        I shows you how to vite, a'ready."
                    And the king disappeared down the street, begging like a spaniel, and vowing
                        that he "wouldn't do it no more." But he got a
                        severe whipping, I fear;it is doubtful if such beatings ever do any good.
                        The next morning Jack appeared at school with a black eye, and Pewee had
                        some scratches, so the master whipped them both for fighting.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII.
                    HAT-BALL AND BULL-PEN.
                    Pewee did not renew the quarrel with Jackperhaps from fear
                        of the rawhide that hung in the blacksmith's shop, or of the
                        master's ox-gad, or of Bob Holliday's fists, or perhaps
                        from a hope of conciliating Jack and getting occasional help in his lessons.
                        Jack was still excluded from the favorite game of
                        "bull-pen." I am not sure that he would have been rejected
                        had he asked for admission, but he did not want to risk another refusal. He
                        planned a less direct way of getting into the game. Asking his mother for a
                        worn-out stocking, and procuring an old boot-top, he ravelled the stocking,
                        winding the yarn into a ball of medium hardness. Then he cut from the
                        boottop a square of leather large enough for his purpose. This he laid on
                        the kitchen-table, and proceeded to mark off and cut it into the shape of an
                        orange-peel that has been quartered off the orange, leaving the four
                        quarters joined together at the middle. This leather he put to soak over
                        night. The next morning, bright and early, with a big needle and some strong
                        thread he sewed it around his yarn-ball, stretching the wet leather to its
                        utmost,  so that when it should contract the
                        ball should be firm and hard, and the leather well moulded to it. Such a
                        ball is far better for all play in which the player is to be hit than those
                        sold in the stores nowadays. I have described the manufacture of the
                        old-fashioned home-made ball, because there are some boys, especially in the
                        towns, who have lost the art of making yarn balls.
                    When Jack had finished his ball, he let it dry, while he ate his breakfast
                        and did his chores. Then he sallied out and found Bob Holliday, and showed
                        him the result of his work. Bob squeezed it, felt its weight, bounced it
                        against a wall, tossed it high in the air, caught it, and then bounced it on
                        the ground. Having thus "put it through its paces," he
                        pronounced it an excellent ball,"a good deal better than Ben
                        Berry's ball. But what are you going to do with it?" he
                        asked. "Play Anthony-over? The little boys can play that."
                    I suppose there are boys in these days who do not know what
                        "Anthony-over" is. How, indeed, can anybody play
                        Anthony-over in a crowded city?
                    The old one-story village school houses stood generally in an open green. The
                        boys divided into two parties, the one going on one side, and the other on
                        the opposite side of the school-house. The party that had the ball would
                        shout "Anthony!" The others responded,
                        "Over!" To this, answer was made from the first party,
                        "Over she comes!" and the ball was  immediately thrown over the school-house. If any of the second
                        party caught it, they rushed, pell-mell, around both ends of the
                        school-house to the other side, and that one of them who held the ball
                        essayed to hit some one of the opposite party before they could exchange
                        sides. If a boy was hit by the ball thus thrown he was counted as captured
                        to the opposite party, and he gave all his efforts to beat his old allies.
                        So the game went on, until all the players of one side were captured by the
                        others. I don't know what Anthony means in this game, but no doubt
                        the game is hundreds of years old, and was played in English villages before
                        the first colony came to Jamestown.
                    "I'm not going to play Anthony-over," said Jack.
                        "I'm going to show King Pewee a new trick."
                    "You can't get up a game of bull-pen on your own hook, and
                        play the four corners and the ring all by yourself."
                    "No, I don't mean that. I'm going to show the boys
                        how to play hat-balla game they used to play on the Wildcat."
                    "I see your point. You are going to make Pewee ask you to let him
                        in," said Bob, and the two boys set out for school together, Jack
                        explaining the game to Bob. They found one or two boys already there, and
                        when Jack showed his new ball and proposed a new game, they fell in with it.
                    
                    The boys stood their hats in a row on the grass. The one with the ball stood
                        over the row of hats, and swung his hand to and fro above them, while the
                        boys stood by him, prepared to run as soon as the ball should drop into a
                        hat. The boy who held the ball, after one or two false motions,now toward
                        this hat, and now toward that one,would drop the ball into
                        Somebody's hat. Somebody would rush to his hat, seize the ball, and
                        throw it at one of the other boys who were fleeing in all directions. If he
                        hit Somebody-Else, Somebody-Else might throw from where the ball lay, or
                        from the hats, at the rest, and so on, until some one missed. The one who
                        missed took up his hat and left the play, and the boy who picked up the ball
                        proceeded to drop it into a hat, and the game went on until all but one were
                        put out.
                    Hat-ball is so simple that any number can play at it, and Jack's
                        friends found it so full of boisterous fun, that every new-comer wished to
                        set down his hat. And thus, by the time Pewee and Riley arrived, half the
                        larger boys in the school were in the game, and there were not enough left
                        to make a good game of bull-pen.
                    At noon, the new game drew the attention of the boys again, and Riley and
                        Pewee tried in vain to coax them away.
                    "Oh, I say, come on, fellows!" Riley would say.
                        "Comelet's play something worth playing."
                    But the boys stayed by the new game and the new ball.  Neither Riley, nor Pewee, nor Ben Berry liked to ask to be let
                        into the game, after what had passed. Not one of them had spoken to Jack
                        since the battle between him and Pewee, and they didn't care to
                        play with Jack's ball in a game of his starting.
                    Once the other boys had broken away from Pewee's domination, they
                        were pleased to feel themselves free. As for Pewee and his friends, they
                        climbed up on a fence, and sat like three crows watching the play of the
                        others. After a while they got down in disgust, and went off, not knowing
                        just what to do. When once they were out of sight, Jack winked at Bob, who
                        said:
                    "I say, boys, we can play hat-ball at recess when there
                        isn't time for bull-pen. Let's have a game of bull-pen
                        now, before school takes up."
                    It was done in a minute. Bob Holliday and Tom Taylor "chose up
                        sides," the bases were all ready, and by the time Pewee and his
                        aids-de-camp had walked disconsolately to the pond and back, the boys were
                        engaged in a good game of bull-pen.
                    Perhaps I ought to say something about the principles of a game so little
                        known over the country at large. I have never seen it played anywhere but in
                        a narrow bit of country on the Ohio River, and yet there is no merrier game
                        played with a ball.
                    The ball must not be too hard. There should be four or more corners. The
                        space inside is called the pen, and  the party
                        winning the last game always has the corners. The ball is tossed from one
                        corner to another, and when it has gone around once, any boy on a corner
                        may, immediately after catching the ball thrown to him from any of the four
                        corners, throw it at any one in the pen. He must throw while "the
                        ball is hot,"that is, instantly on catching it. If he fails to hit
                        anybody on the other side, he goes out. If he hits, his side leave the
                        corners and run as they please, for the boy who has been hit may throw from
                        where the ball fell, or from any corner, at any one of the side holding the
                        corners. If one of them is hit, he has the same privilege; but now the men
                        in the pen are allowed to scatter also. Whoever misses is
                        "out," and the play is resumed from the corners until all
                        of one side is out. When but two are left on the corners the ball is
                        smuggled,that is, one hides the ball in his bosom, and the other pretends
                        that he has it also. The boys in the ring do not know which has it, and the
                        two "run the corners," throwing from any corner. If but
                        one is left on the corners, he is allowed also to run from corner to corner.
                    It happened that Jack's side lost on the toss-up for corners, and he
                        got into the ring, where his play showed better than it would have done on
                        the corners. As Jack was the greenhorn' and the last chosen on his
                        side, the players on the corners expected to make light work of him; but he
                        was an adroit dodger, and he put out three  of
                        the boys on the corners by his unexpected way of evading a ball. Everybody
                        who has ever played this fine old game knows that expertness in dodging is
                        worth quite as much as skill in throwing. Pewee was a famous hand with a
                        ball, Riley could dodge well, Ben Berry had a happy knack of dropping flat
                        upon the ground and leting a ball pass over him, Bob Holliday could run well
                        in a counter charge; but nothing could be more effective than Jack
                        Dudley's quiet way of stepping forward or backward, bending his
                        lithe body or spreading his legs to let the ball pass, according to the
                        course which it took from the player's hand.
                    King Pewee and company came back in time to see Jack dodge three balls thrown
                        point-blank at him from a distance of fifteen feet. It was like witchcrafthe
                        seemed to be charmed. Every dodge was greeted with a shout, and when once he
                        luckily caught the ball thrown at him, and thus put out the thrower, there
                        was no end of admiration of his playing. It was now evident to all that Jack
                        could no longer be excluded from the game, and that, next to Pewee himself,
                        he was already the best player on the ground.
                    At recess that afternoon, Pewee set his hat down in the hat-ball row, and as
                        Jack did not object, Riley and Ben Berry did the same. The next day Pewee
                        chose Jack first in bull-pen, and the game was well played.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII.
                    THE DEFENDER.
                    If Jack had not about this time undertaken the defence of
                        the little boy in the Fourth Reader, whose name was large enough to cover
                        the principal points in the history of the New World, he might have had
                        peace, for Jack was no longer one of the newest scholars, his courage was
                        respected by Pewee, and he kept poor Riley in continual fear of his
                        ridiculemaking him smart every day. But, just when he might have had a
                        little peace and happiness, he became the defender of Christopher Columbus
                        George Washington Marquis de la Fayette Risdalelittle
                        "Andsoforth," as Riley and the other boys had nicknamed
                        him.
                    The strange, pinched little body of the boy, his eccentric ways, his
                        quickness in learning, and his infantile simplicity had all conspired to win
                        the affection of Jack, so that he would have protected him even without the
                        solicitation of Susan Lanham. But since Susan had been Jack's own
                        first and fast friend, he felt in honor bound to run all risks in the care
                        of her strange little cousin.
                    I think that Columbus's child-like ways might have protected him
                        even from Riley and his set, if it had not 
                        been that he was related to Susan Lanham, and under her protection. It was
                        the only chance for Riley to revenge himself on Susan. She was more than a
                        match for him in wit, and she was not a proper subject for Pewee's
                        fists. So with that heartlessness which belongs to the school-boy bully, he
                        resolved to torment the helpless fellow in revenge for Susan's
                        sarcasms.
                    One morning, smarting under some recent taunt of Susan's, Riley
                        caught little Columbus almost alone in the school-room. Here was a boy who
                        certainly would not be likely to strike back again. His bamboo legs, his
                        spindling arms, his pale face, his contracted chest, all gave the coward a
                        perfect assurance of safety. So, with a rude pretence at play, laughing all
                        the time, he caught the lad by the throat, and in spite of his weird dignity
                        and pleading gentleness, shoved him back against the wall behind the
                        master's empty chair. Holding him here a minute in suspense, he
                        began slapping him, first on this side of the face and then on that. The
                        pale cheeks burned red with pain and fright, but Columbus did not cry out,
                        though the constantly increasing sharpness of the blows, and the sense of
                        weakness, degradation, and terror, stung him severely. Riley thought it
                        funny. Like a cat playing with a condemned mouse, the cruel fellow actually
                        enjoyed finding one person weak enough to be afraid of him.
                    Columbus twisted about in a vain endeavor to escape  from Riley's clutches, getting only a sharper cuff for
                        his pains. Ben Berry, arriving presently, enjoyed the sport, while some of
                        the smaller boys and girls, coming in, looked on the scene of torture in
                        helpless pity. And ever, as more and more of the scholars gathered, Columbus
                        felt more and more mortified; the tears were in his great sad eyes, but he
                        made no sound of crying or complaint.
                    Jack Dudley came in at last, and marched straight up to Riley, who let go his
                        hold and backed off. "You mean, cowardly, pitiful
                        villain!" broke out Jack, advancing on him.
                    "I didn't do anything to you," whined Riley,
                        backing into a corner.
                    "No, but I mean to do something to you. If there's an inch
                        of man in you, come right on and fight with me. You daren't do
                        it."
                    "I don't want any quarrel with you."
                    "No, you quarrel with babies." Here all the boys and girls
                        jeered.
                    "You're too hard on a fellow, Jack," whined the
                        scared Riley, slipping out of the corner and continuing to back down the
                        school-room, while Jack kept slowly following him.
                    "You're a great deal bigger than I am," said Jack.
                        "Why don't you try to corner me? Oh, I could just beat the
                        breath out of you, you great, big, good for nothing"
                    
                    Here Riley pulled the west door open, and Jack, at the same moment, struck
                        him. Riley half dropped, half fell, through the door-way, scared so badly
                        that he went sprawling on the ground.
                    The boys shouted "coward" and "baby"
                        after him as he sneaked off, but Jack went back to comfort Columbus and to
                        get control of his temper. For it is not wise, as Jack soon reflected, even
                        in a good cause to lose your self-control.
                    "It was good of you to interfere," said Susan, when she had
                        come in and learned all about it.
                    "I should have been a brute if I hadn't," said
                        Jack, pleased none the less with her praise. "But it
                        doesn't take any courage to back Riley out of a school-house. One
                        could get more fight out of a yearling calf. I suppose I've got to
                        take a beating from Pewee, though."
                    "Go and see him about it, before Riley talks to him,"
                        suggested Susan. And Jack saw the prudence of this course. As he left the
                        school-house at a rapid pace, Ben Berry told Riley, who was skulking behind
                        a fence, that Jack was afraid of Pewee.
                    "Pewee," said Jack, when he met him starting to school,
                        after having done his "chores," including the milking of
                        his cow,"Pewee, I want to say something to you."
                    Jack's tone and manner flattered Pewee. One thing that keeps a rowdy
                        a rowdy is the thought that better  people
                        despise him. Pewee felt in his heart that Jack had a contempt for him, and
                        this it was that made him hate Jack in turn. But now that the latter sought
                        him in a friendly way, he felt himself lifted up into a dignity hitherto
                        unknown to him. "What is it?"
                    "You are a kind of king among the boys," said Jack. Pewee
                        grew an inch taller.
                    "They are all afraid of you. Now, why don't you make us
                        fellows behave? You ought to protect the little boys from fellows that
                        impose on them. Then you'd be a king worth the having. All the boys
                        and girls would like you."
                    "I s'pose may be that's so," said the
                        king.
                    "There's poor little Columbus Risdale"
                    "I don't like him," said Pewee.
                    "You mean you don't like Susan. She is a
                        little sharp with her tongue. But you wouldn't fight with a baby it
                        isn't like you."
                    "No, sir-ee," said Pewee.
                    "You'd rather take a big boy than a little one. Now, you
                        ought to make Riley let Lummy alone."
                    "I'll do that," said Pewee.
                        "Riley's about a million times bigger than Lum."
                    "I went to the school-house this morning," continued Jack,
                        "and I found Riley choking and beating him. And I thought
                        I'd just speak to you, and see if you can't make him stop
                        it."
                    
                    "I'll do that," said Pewee, walking along with
                        great dignity.
                    When Ben Berry and Riley saw Pewee coming in company with Jack, they were
                        amazed and hung their heads, afraid to say anything even to each other. Jack
                        and Pewee walked straight up to the fence-corner in which they stood.
                    "I thought I'd see what King Pewee would say about your
                        fighting with babies, Riley," said Jack.
                    "I want you fellows to understand," said Pewee,
                        "that I'm not going to have that little Lum Risdale hurt.
                        If you want to fight, why don't you fight somebody your own size? I
                        don't fight babies myself," and here Pewee drew his head
                        up, "and I don't stand by any boy that does."
                    Poor Riley felt the last support drop from under him. Pewee had deserted him,
                        and he was now an orphan, unprotected in an unfriendly world!
                    Jack knew that the truce with so vain a fellow as Pewee could not last long,
                        but it served its purpose for the time. And when, after school, Susan Lanham
                        took pains to go and thank Pewee for standing up for Columbus, Pewee felt
                        himself every inch a king, and for the time he wasif not a
                        "reformed prize-fighter," such as one hears of sometimes,
                        at least an improved boy. The trouble with vain people like Pewee is, that
                        they have no stability. They bend the way the wind blows, and for the most
                        part the wind blows from the wrong quarter.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX.
                    PIGEON POT-PIE.
                    Happy boys and girls that go to school nowadays! You have
                        to study harder than the generations before you, it is true; you miss the
                        jolly spelling-schools, and the good old games that were not half so
                        scientific as base-ball, lawn tennis, or lacrosse, but that had ten times
                        more fun and frolic in them; but all this is made up to you by the fact that
                        you escape the tyrannical old master. Whatever the faults the teachers of
                        this day may have, they do not generally lacerate the backs of their pupils,
                        as did some of their fore-runners.
                    At the time of which I write, thirty years ago, a better race of
                        school-masters was crowding out the old, but many of the latter class, with
                        their terrible switches and cruel beatings, kept their ground until they
                        died off one by one, and relieved the world of their odious ways.
                    Mr. Ball wouldn't die to please anybody. He was a bachelor, and had
                        no liking for children, but taught school five or six months in winter to
                        avoid having to work on a farm in the summer. He had taught in Greenbank
                        every winter for a quarter of a century, and having never  learned to win anybody's affection,
                        had been obliged to teach those who disliked him. This atmosphere of mutual
                        dislike will sour the sweetest temper, and Mr. Ball's temper had
                        not been strained honey to begin with. Year by year he grew more and more
                        severehe whipped for poor lessons, he whipped for speaking in school, he
                        took down his switch for not speaking loud enough in class, he whipped for
                        coming late to school, he whipped because a scholar made a noise with his
                        feet, and he whipped because he himself had eaten something unwholesome for
                        his breakfast. The brutality of a master produces like qualities in
                        scholars. The boys drew caricatures on the blackboard, put living cats or
                        dead ones into Mr. Ball's desk, and tried to drive him wild by
                        their many devices.
                    He would walk up and down the school-room seeking a victim, and he had as
                        much pleasure in beating a girl or a little boy as in punishing an overgrown
                        fellow.
                    And yet I cannot say that Mr. Ball was impartial. There were some pupils that
                        escaped. Susan Lanham was not punished, because her father, Dr. Lanham, was
                        a very influential man in the town; and the faults of Henry Weathervane and
                        his sister were always overlooked after their father became a school
                        trustee.
                    Many efforts had been made to put a new master into the school. But Mr.
                        Ball's brother-in-law was one of the principal merchants in the
                        place, and the old man had had  the school so
                        long that it seemed like robbery to deprive him of it. It had come, in some
                        sort, to belong to him. People hated to see him moved. He would die some
                        day, they said, and nobody could deny that, though it often seemed to the
                        boys and girls that he would never die; he was more likely to dry up and
                        blow away. And it was a long time to wait for that.
                    And yet I think Greenbank might have had to wait for something like that if
                        there hadn't come a great flight of pigeons just at this time. For
                        whenever Susan Lanham suggested to her father that he should try to get Mr.
                        Ball removed and a new teacher appointed, Dr. Lanham smiled and said
                        "he hated to move against the old man; he'd been there so
                        long, you know, and he probably wouldn't live long, anyhow.
                        Something ought to be done, perhaps, but he couldn't meddle with
                        him." For older people forgot the beatings they had endured, and
                        remembered the old man only as one of the venerable landmarks of their
                        childhood.
                    And so, by favor of Henry Weathervane's father, whose children he
                        did not punish, and by favor of other people's neglect and
                        forgetfulness, the Greenbank children might have had to face and fear the
                        old ogre down to this day, or until he dried up and blew away, if it
                        hadn't been, as I said, that there came a great flight of pigeons.
                    A flight of pigeons is not uncommon in the Ohio River country. Audubon, the
                        great naturalist, saw them  in his day, and in
                        old colonial times such flights took place in the settlements on the
                        sea-board, and sometimes the starving colonists were able to knock down
                        pigeons with sticks. The mathematician is not yet born who can count the
                        number of pigeons in one of these sky-darkening flocks, which are often many
                        miles in length, and which follow one another for a whole day. The birds,
                        for the most part, fly at a considerable height from the earth, but when
                        they are crossing a wide valley, like that of the Ohio River, they drop down
                        to a lower level, and so reach the hills quite close to the ground, and
                        within easy gunshot.
                    When the pigeon flight comes on Saturday, it is very convenient for those
                        boys that have guns. If these pigeons had only come on Saturday instead of
                        on Monday, Mr. Ball might have taught the Greenbank school until to-day,that
                        is to say, if he hadn't died or quite dried up and blown off
                        meanwhile.
                    For when Riley and Ben Berry saw this flight of pigeons begin on Monday
                        morning, they remembered that the geography lesson was a hard one, and so
                        they played "hooky," and, taking their guns with them, hid
                        in the bushes at the top of the hill. Then, as the birds struck the hill,
                        and beat their way up over the brow of it, the boys, lying in ambush, had
                        only to fire into the flock without taking aim, and the birds would drop all
                        around them. The discharge of the guns made Bob Holliday so hungry  for pigeon pot-pie, that he, too, ran away
                        from school, at recess, and took his place among the pigeon-slayers in the
                        paw-paw patch on the hill top.
                    Tuesday morning, Mr. Ball came in with darkened brows, and three extra
                        switches. Riley, Berry, and Holliday were called up as soon as school began.
                        They had pigeon pot-pie for dinner, but they also had sore backs for three
                        days, and Bob laughingly said that he knew just how a pigeon felt when it
                        was basted.
                    The day after the whipping and the pigeon pot-pie, when the sun shone warm at
                        noon, the fire was allowed to go down in the stove. All were at play in the
                        sunshine, excepting Columbus Risdale, who sat solitary, like a disconsolate
                        screech-owl, in one corner of the room. Riley and Ben Berry, still smarting
                        from yesterday, entered, and without observing Lummy's presence,
                        proceeded to put some gunpowder in the stove, taking pains to surround it
                        with cool ashes, so that it should not explode until the stirring of the
                        fire, as the chill of the afternoon should come on. When they had finished
                        this dangerous transaction, they discovered the presence of Columbus in his
                        corner, looking at them with large-eyed wonder and alarm.
                    "If you ever tell a living soul about that, we'll kill
                        you," said Ben Berry.
                    Riley also threatened the scared little rabbit, and both felt safe from
                        detection.
                    An hour after school had resumed its session. Columbus,  who had sat shivering with terror all the time, wrote on his
                        slate:
                    "Will Riley and Ben B. put something in the stove. Said they would
                        kill me if I told on them."
                    This he passed to Jack, who sat next to him. Jack rubbed it out as soon as he
                        had read it, and wrote:
                    "Don't tell any body."
                    Jack could not guess what they had put in. It might be coffee-nuts, which
                        would explode harmlessly; it might be something that would give a bad smell
                        in burning, such as chicken-feathers. If he had thought that it was
                        gunpowder, he would have plucked up courage enough to give the master some
                        warning, though he might have got only a whipping for his pains. While Jack
                        was debating what he should do, the master called the Fourth-Reader class.
                        At the close of the lesson he noticed that Columbus was shivering, though
                        indeed it was more from terror than from cold.
                    "Go to the stove and stir up the fire, and get warm," he
                        said, sternly.
                    "I'dI'd rather not," said Lum, shaking
                        with fright at the idea.
                    "Umph!" said Mr. Ball, looking hard at the lad, with half a
                        mind to make him go. Then he changed his purpose and went to the stove
                        himself, raked forward the coals, and made up the fire. Just as he was
                        shutting the stove-door, the explosion camethe ashes flew out all  over the master, the stove was thrown down
                        from the bricks on which its four legs rested, the long pipe fell in many
                        pieces on the floor, and the children set up a general howl in all parts of
                        the room.
                    As soon as Mr. Ball had shaken off the ashes from his coat, he said:
                        "Be quietthere's no more danger. Columbus Risdale, come
                        here."
                    "He did not do it," spoke up Susan Lanham.
                    "Be quiet, Susan. You know all about this," continued the
                        master to poor little Columbus, who was so frightened as hardly to be able
                        to stand. After looking at Columbus a moment, the master took down a great
                        beech switch. "Now, I shall whip you until you tell me who did it.
                        You were afraid to go the stove. You knew there was powder there. Who put it
                        there? That's the question. Answer, quick, or I shall make
                        you."
                    The little skin and-bones trembled between two terrors, and Jack seeing his
                        perplexity, got up and stood by him.
                    "He didn't do it, Mr. Ball. I know who did it. If Columbus
                        should tell you, he would be beaten for telling. The boy who did it is just
                        mean enough to let Lummy get the whipping. Please let him off."
                    
                        "You know, do you? I shall whip you both. You
                        knew there was gunpowder in the fire, and you gave no warning. I shall whip
                        you boththe severest whipping you ever had, too."
                    
                    And the master put up the switch he had taken down, as not effective enough,
                        and proceeded to take another.
                    "If we had known it was gunpowder," said Jack, beginning to
                        tremble, "you would have been warned. But we didn't. We
                        only knew that something had been put in."
                    "If you'll tell all about it, I'll let you off
                        easier; if you don't, I shall give you all the whipping I know how
                        to give." And by way of giving impressiveness to his threat he took
                        a turn about the room, while there was an awful stillness among the
                        terrified scholars.
                    I do not know what was in Bob Holliday's head, but about this time
                        he managed to open the western door while the master's back was
                        turned. Bob's desk was near the door.
                    Poor little Columbus was ready to die, and Jack was afraid that, if the
                        master should beat him as he threatened to do, the child would die outright.
                        Luckily, at the second cruel blow, the master broke his switch and turned to
                        get another. Seeing the door open, Jack whispered to Columbus:
                    "Run home as fast as you can go."
                    The little fellow needed no second bidding. He tottered on his trembling legs
                        to the door, and was out before Mr. Ball had detected the motion. When the
                        master saw his prey disappearing out of the door, he ran after  him, but it happened curiously enough, in the
                        excitement, that Bob Holliday, who sat behind the door, rose up, as if to
                        look out, and stumbled against the door, thus pushing it shut, so that by
                        the time Mr. Ball got his stiff legs outside the door, the frightened child
                        was under such headway that, fearing to have the whole school in rebellion,
                        the teacher gave over the pursuit, and came back prepared to wreak his
                        vengeance on Jack.
                    While Mr. Ball was outside the door, Bob Holliday called to Jack, in a loud
                        whisper, that he had better run, too, or the old master would "skin
                        him alive." But Jack had been trained to submit to authority, and
                        to run away now would lose him his winter's schooling, on which he
                        had set great store. He made up his mind to face the punishment as best he
                        could, fleeing only as a last resort if the beating should be unendurable.
                    "Now," said the master to Jack, "will you tell me
                        who put that gunpowder in the stove? If you don't, I'll
                        take it out of your skin."
                    Jack could not bear to tell, especially under a threat. I think that boys are
                        not wholly right in their notion that it is dishonorable to inform on a
                        school-mate, especially in the case of so bad an offence as that of which
                        Will and Ben were guilty. But, on the other hand, the last thing a master
                        ought to seek is to turn boys into habitual spies and informers on one
                        another. In the present instance, Jack ought, perhaps, to have told, for the
                        offence was  criminal; but it is hard for a
                        high-spirited lad to yield to a brutal threat.
                    Jack caught sight of Susan Lanham telegraphing from behind the master, by
                        spelling with her fingers:
                    "Tell or run."
                    But he could not make up his mind to do either, though Bob Holliday had again
                        mysteriously opened the western door.
                    The master summoned all his strength and struck him half a dozen blows, that
                        made poor Jack writhe. Then he walked up and down the room awhile, to give
                        the victim time to consider whether he would tell or not
                    "Run," spelled out Susan on her fingers.
                    "The school-house is on fire!" called out Bob Holliday.
                        Some of the coals that had spilled from the capsized stove were burning the
                        floornot dangerously, but Bob wished to make a diversion. He rushed for a
                        pail of water in the corner, and all the rest, aching with suppressed
                        excitement, crowded around the fallen stove, so that it was hard for the
                        master to tell whether there was any fire or not. Bob whispered to Jack to
                        "cut sticks," but Jack only went to his seat.
                    "Lay hold, boys, and let's put up the stove," said
                        Bob, taking the matter quite out of the master's hands. Of course,
                        the stove-pipe would not fit without a great deal of trouble. Did ever
                        stove-pipe go together without trouble? Somehow, all the joints that Bob
                        joined together  flew asunder over and over
                        again, though he seemed to work most zealously to get the stove set up.
                        After half an hour of this confusion, the pipe was fixed, and the master,
                        having had time, like the stove, to cool off, and seeing Jack bent over his
                        book, concluded to let the matter drop. But there are some matters that,
                        once taken up, are hard to drop.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X.
                    JACK AND HIS MOTHER.
                    Jack went home that night very sore on his back and in his
                        feelings. He felt humiliated to be beaten like a dog, and even a dog feels
                        degraded in being beaten. He told his mother about itthe tall, dignified,
                        sweet-faced mother, patient in trouble and full of a goodness that did not
                        talk much about goodness. She always took it for granted that her boy would not do anything mean, and thus made a healthy
                        atmosphere for a brave boy to grow in. Jack told her of his whipping, with
                        some heat, while he sat at supper. She did not say much then, but after
                        Jack's evening chores were all finished, she sat down by the candle
                        where he was trying to get out some sums, and questioned him carefully.
                    "Why didn't you tell who did it?" she asked.
                    "Because it makes a boy mean to tell, and all the boys would have
                        thought me a sneak."
                    "It is a little hard to face a general opinion like that,"
                        she said.
                    "But," said Jack, "if I had told, the master would
                             have whipped Columbus all the same, and
                        the boys would probably have pounded him too. I ought to have told
                        beforehand," said Jack, after a pause. "But I thought it
                        was only some coffee-nuts that they had put in. The mean fellows, to let
                        Columbus take a whipping for them! But the way Mr. Ball beats us is enough
                        to make a boy mean and cowardly."
                    After a long silence, the mother said: "I think we shall have to
                        give it up, Jack."
                    "What, mother?"
                    "The schooling for this winter. I don't want you to go
                        where boys are beaten in that way. In the morning, go and get your books and
                        see what you can do at home."
                    Then, after a long pause, in which neither liked to speak, Mrs. Dudley said:
                    "I want you to be an educated man. You learn quickly; you have a
                        taste for books, and you will be happier if you get knowledge. If I could
                        collect the money that Gray owes your father's estate, or even a
                        part of it, I should be able to keep you in school one winter after this.
                        But there seems to be no hope for that."
                    "But Gray is a rich man, isn't he?"
                    "Yes, he has a good deal of property, but not in his own name. He
                        persuaded your father, who was a kind-hearted and easy-natured man, to
                        release a mortgage,  promising to give him some
                        other security the next week. But, meantime, he put his property in such a
                        shape as to cheat all his creditors. "I don't think we
                        shall ever get anything."
                    "I am going to be an educated man, anyhow."
                    "But you will have to go to work at something next fall,"
                        said the mother.
                    "That will make it harder, but I mean to study a little every day. I
                        wish I could get a chance to spend next winter in school."
                    "We'll see what can be done."
                    And long after Jack went to bed that night the mother sat still by the candle
                        with her sewing, trying to think what she could do to help her boy to get on
                        with his studies.
                    Jack woke up after eleven o'clock, and saw her light still burning
                        in the sitting-room.
                    "I say, mother," he called out, "don't
                        you sit there worrying about me. We shall come through this all
                        right."
                    Some of Jack's hopefulness got into the mother's heart, and
                        she took her light and went to bed.
                    Weary, and sore, and disappointed, Jack did not easily get to sleep himself
                        after his cheerful speech to his mother. He lay awake long, making
                        boy's plans for his future. He would go and collect money by some
                        hook or crook from the rascally Gray; he would make  a great invention; he would discover a gold mine; he would find
                        some rich cousin who would send him through college; he would, but just then
                        he grew more wakeful and realized that all his plans had no foundation of
                        probability.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI.
                    COLUMBUS AND HIS FRIENDS.
                    When he waked up in the morning, Jack remembered that he
                        had not seen Columbus Risdale go past the door after his cow the evening
                        before, and he was afraid that he might be ill. Why had he not thought to go
                        down and drive up the cow himself? It was yet early, and he arose and went
                        down to the little rusty, brown, unpainted house in which the Risdales, who
                        were poor people, had their home. Just as he pushed open the gate, Bob
                        Holliday came out of the door, looking tired and sleepy.
                    "Hello, Bob!" said Jack. "How's Columbus?
                        Is he sick?"
                    "Awful sick," said Bob. "Clean out of his head all
                        night."
                    "Have you been here all night?"
                    "Yes, I heerd he was sick last night, and I come over and sot up
                        with him."
                    "You good, big-hearted Bob!" said Jack.
                        "You're the best fellow in the world, I believe."
                    "What a quare feller you air to talk, Jack," said  Bob, choking up. "Air you
                        goin' to school today?"
                    "No. Mother'd rather have me not go any more."
                    "I'm not going any more. I hate old Ball.
                        Neither's Susan Lanham going. She's in there,"
                        and Bob made a motion toward the house with his thumb, and passed out of the
                        gate, while Jack knocked at the door. He was admitted by Susan.
                    "Oh, Jack! I'm so glad to see you," she whispered.
                        "Columbus has asked for you a good many times during the night.
                        You've stood by him splendidly."
                    Jack blushed, but asked how Lummy was now.
                    "Out of his head most of the time. Bob Holliday staid with him all
                        night. What a good fellow Bob Holliday is!"
                    "I almost hugged him, just now," said Jack, and Susan
                        couldn't help smiling at this frank confession.
                    Jack passed into the next room as stealthily as possible, that he might not
                        disturb his friend, and paused by the door. Mrs. Risdale sat by the beside
                        of Columbus, who was sleeping uneasily, his curious big head and long thin
                        hair making a strange picture against the pillow. His face looked more
                        meagre and his eyes more sunken than ever before, but there was a feverish
                        flush on his wan cheeks, and the slender hands moved uneasily on the outside
                        of the blue coverlet, the puny arms were bare to the elbows.
                    
                    Mrs. Risdale beckoned Jack to come forward, and he came and stood at the
                        bed-foot. Then Columbus opened his large eyes and fixed them on Jack for a
                        few seconds.
                    "Come, Jack, dear old fellow," he whispered.
                    Jack came and bent over him with tearful eyes, and the poor little reed-like
                        arms were twined about his neck.
                    "Jack," he sobbed, "the master's right
                        over there in the corner all the time, straightening out his long switches.
                        He says he's going to whip me again. But you won't let
                        him, will you, Jack, you good old fellow?"
                    "No, he sha'n't touch you."
                    "Let's run away, Jack," he said, presently. And so
                        the poor little fellow went on, his great disordered brain producing
                        feverish images of terror from which he continually besought "dear
                        good old Jack" to deliver him.
                    When at last he dropped again into a troubled sleep, Jack slipped away and
                        drove up the Risdale cow, and then went back to his breakfast. He was a boy
                        whose anger kindled slowly; but the more he thought about it, the more angry
                        he became at the master who had given Columbus such a fright as to throw him
                        into a brain fever, and at the "mean, sneaking, contemptible
                        villains," as he hotly called them, who wouldn't come
                        forward and confess their trick, rather than to have the poor little lad
                        punished.
                    
                    "I suppose we ought to make some allowances," his mother
                        said, quietly.
                    "That's what you always say, mother. You're always
                        making allowances."
                    After breakfast and chores, Jack thought to go again to see his little
                        friend. On issuing from the gate, he saw Will Riley and Ben Berry waiting
                        for him at the corner. Whether they meant to attack him or not he could not
                        tell, but he felt too angry to care.
                    "I say, Jack," said Riley, "how did you know who
                        put the powder in the stove? Did Columbus tell you?"
                    "Mind your own business," said Jack, in a tone not so
                        polite as it might be. "The less you say about gunpowder,
                        hereafter, the better for you both. Why didn't you walk up and
                        tell, and save that little fellow a beating?"
                    "Look here, Jack," said Berry, "don't you
                        tell what you know about it. There's going to be a row. They say
                        that Doctor Lanham's taken Susan, and all the other children, out
                        of school, because the master thrashed Lummy, and they say Bob
                        Holliday's quit, and that you're going to quit, and Doctor
                        Lanham's gone to work this morning to get the master put out at the
                        end of the term. Mr. Ball didn't know that Columbus was kin to the
                        Lanhams, or he'd have let him alone, like he does the Lanhams and
                        the Weathervanes. There is going to be a big row, and everybody'll
                        want to know  who put the powder in the stove.
                        We want you to be quiet about it."
                    "You do?" said Jack, with a sneer. "You do?"
                    "Yes, we do," said Riley, coaxingly.
                    "You do? You come to me and ask
                        me to keep it secret, after letting me and that poor little baby take your
                        whipping! You want me to hide what you did, when that poor little Columbus
                        lies over there sick abed and like to die, all because you sneaking
                        scoundrels let him be whipped for what you did!"
                    "Is he sick?" said Riley, in terror.
                    "Going to die, I expect," said Jack, bitterly.
                    "Well," said Ben Berry, "you be careful what you
                        say about us, or we'll get Pewee to get even with you."
                    "Oh, that's your game! You think you can scare me, do
                        you?"
                    Jack grew more and more angry. Seeing a group of school-boys on the other
                        side of the street, he called them over.
                    "Look here, boys," said Jack, "I took a whipping
                        yesterday to keep from telling on these fellows, and now they have the face
                        to ask me not to tell that they put the powder in the stove, and they
                        promise me a beating from Pewee if I do. These are the two boys that let a
                        poor sickly baby take the whipping they ought to have had. They have just as
                        good as killed him, I suppose, and now they come sneaking around here and
                        trying to  scare me in keeping still about it.
                        I didn't back down from the master, and I wont from Pewee. Oh, no!
                        I wont tell anybody. But if any of you boys should happen to guess that Will
                        Riley and Ben Berry were the cowards who did that mean trick, I am not going
                        to say they weren't. It wouldn't be of any use to deny it.
                        There are only two boys in school mean enough to play such a contemptible
                        trick as that."
                    Riley and Berry stood sheepishly silent, but just here Pewee came in sight,
                        and seeing the squad of boys gathered around Jack, strode over quickly and
                        pushed his sturdy form into the midst.
                    "Pewee," said Riley, "I think you ought to pound
                        Jack. He says you can't back him down."
                    "I didn't," said Jack. "I said you couldn't scare me out of telling who tried to
                        blow up the school-house stove, and let other boys take the whipping, by
                        promising me a drubbing from Pewee Rose. If Pewee wants to put himself in as
                        mean a crowd as yours, and be your puppy-dog to fight for you, let him come
                        on. He's a fool if he does, that's all I have to say. The
                        whole town will want to ship you two fellows off before night, and Pewee
                        isn't going to fight your battles. What do you think, Pewee, of
                        fellows that put powder in a stove where they might blow up a lot of little
                        children? What do you think of two fellows that want me to keep quiet after
                        they let little Lum Risdale take a whipping for  them, and that talk about setting you on to me if I tell?"
                    Thus brought face to face with both parties, King Pewee only looked foolish
                        and said nothing.
                    Jack had worked himself into such a passion that he could not go to
                        Risdale's, but returned to his own home, declaring that he was
                        going to tell everybody in town. But when he entered the house and looked
                        into the quiet, self-controlled face of his mother, he began to feel cooler.
                    "Let us remember that some allowances are to be made for such
                        boys," was all that she said.
                    "That's what you always say, Mother," said Jack,
                        impatiently. "I believe you'd make allowances for the Old
                        Boy himself."
                    "That would depend on his bringing up," smiled Mrs. Dudley.
                        "Some people have bad streaks naturally, and some have been cowed
                        and brutalized by illtreatment, and some have been spoiled by
                        indulgence."
                    Jack felt more calm after a while. He went back to the bedside of Columbus,
                        but he couldn't bring himself to make allowances.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII.
                    GREENBANK WAKES UP.
                    If the pigeons had not crossed the valley on Monday,
                        nobody would have played truant, and if nobody had played truant on Monday,
                        there would not have been occasion to whip three boys on Tuesday morning,
                        and if Ben Berry and Riley had escaped a beating on Tuesday morning, they
                        would not have thought of putting gunpowder into the stove on Wednesday at
                        noon, and if they had omitted that bad joke, Columbus would not have got
                        into trouble and run away from school, and if he had escaped the fright and
                        the flight, he might not have had the fever, and the town would not have
                        been waked up, and other things would not have happened.
                    So then, you see, this world of ours is just like the House that Jack Built:
                        one thing is tied to another and another to that, and that to this, and this
                        to something, and something to something else, and so on to the very end of
                        all things.
                    So it was that the village was thrown into a great excitement as the result
                        of a flock of innocent pigeons  going over the
                        heads of some lazy boys. In the first place, Susan Lanham talked about
                        things. She talked to her aunts, and she talked to her uncles, and, above
                        all, she talked to her father. Now Susan was the brightest girl in the town,
                        and she had a tongue, as all the world knew, and when she set out to tell
                        people what a brute the old master was, how he had beaten two innocent boys,
                        how bravely Jack had carried himself, how frightened little Columbus was,
                        and how sick it had made him, and how mean the boys were to put the powder
                        there, and then to let the others take the whipping, I say, when Susan set
                        out to tell all these things, in her eloquent way, to everybody she knew,
                        you might expect a waking up in the sleepy old town. Some of the people took
                        Susan's side and removed their children from the school, lest they,
                        too, should get a whipping and run home and have brain fever. But many stood
                        up for the old master, mostly because they were people of the sort that
                        never can bear to see anything changed. "The boys ought to have
                        told who put the powder in the stove," they said. "It
                        served them right."
                    "How could the master know that Jack and Columbus did not do it
                        themselves?" said others. "May be they did!"
                    "Don't tell me!" cried old Mrs. Horne.
                        "Don't tell me! Boys can't be managed without
                        whipping, and plenty of it. 'Bring up a child and away he
                        goes,' as the  Bible says. When you
                        hire a master, you want a master, says I."
                    "What a tongue that Sue Lanham has got!" said Mr. Higbie,
                        Mr. Ball's brother-in-law.
                    The excitement spread over the whole village. Doctor Lanham talked about it,
                        and the ministers, and the lawyers, and the loafers in the stores, and the
                        people who came to the post-office for their letters. Of course, it broke
                        out furiously in the "Maternal Association," a meeting of
                        mothers held at the house of one of the ministers.
                    "Mr. Ball can do every sum in the arithmetic," urged Mrs.
                        Weathervane.
                    "He's a master hand at figures, they do say," said
                        Mother Brownson.
                    "Yes," said Mrs. Dudley, "I don't doubt
                        it. Jack's back is covered with figures of Mr. Ball's
                        making. For my part, I should rather have a master that did his figuring on
                        a slate."
                    Susan Lanham got hold of this retort, and took pains that it should be known
                        all over the village.
                    When Greenbank once gets waked up on any question, it never goes to sleep
                        until that particular question is settled. But it doesn't wake up
                        more than once or twice in twenty years. Most of the time it is only talking
                        in its sleep. Now that Greenbank had its eyes open for a little time, it was
                        surprised to see that while the cities  along
                        the river had all adopted graded schools, degraded
                        schools, as they were called by the people opposed to them, and while even
                        the little villages in the hill country had younger and more enlightened
                        teachers, the county-town of Greenbank had made no advance. It employed yet,
                        under the rule of President Fillmore, the same hard old stick of a master
                        that had beaten the boys in the log school-house in the days of John Quincy
                        Adams and Andrew Jackson. But, now it was awake, Greenbank kept its eyes
                        open on the school question. The boys wrote on the fences, in chalk: 
                            
                                DOWN WITH OLD BAWL!
                            
                         and thought the bad spelling of the name a good joke, while men and
                        women began to talk about getting a new master.
                    Will Riley and Ben Berry had the hardest time. For the most part they stayed
                        at home during the excitement, only slinking out in the evening. The boys
                        nicknamed them "Gunpowder cowards," and wrote the words on
                        the fences. Even the loafers about the street asked them whether Old Ball
                        had given them that whipping yet, and how they liked "powder and
                        Ball."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII.
                    PROFESSOR SUSAN.
                    Mr. Ball did not let go easily. He had
                        been engaged for the term, and he declared that he would go on to the end of
                        the term, if there should be nothing but empty benches. In truth, he and his
                        partisans hoped that the storm would blow over and the old man be allowed to
                        go on teaching and thrashing as heretofore. He had a great advantage in that
                        he had been trained in all the common branches better than most masters, and
                        was regarded as a miracle of skill in arithmetical calculations. He even
                        knew how to survey land.
                    Jack was much disappointed to miss his winter's schooling, and there
                        was no probability that he would be able to attend school again. He went on
                        as best he could at home, but he stuck fast on some difficult problems in
                        the middle of the arithmetic. Columbus had by this time begun to recover his
                        slender health, and he was even able to walk over to Jack's house
                        occasionally. Finding Jack in despair over some of his
                        "sums," he said:
                    "Why don't you ask Susan Lanham to show you?
                    
                    I believe she would; and she has been clean through the arithmetic, and she
                        is 'most as good as the master himself."
                    "I don't like to," said Jack. "She
                        wouldn't want to take the trouble."
                    But the next morning Christopher Columbus managed to creep over to the
                        Lanhams:
                    "Cousin Sukey," he said, coaxingly, "I wish
                        you'd do something for me. I want to ask a favor of you."
                    "What is it, Columbus?" said Sue. "Anything you
                        ask shall be given, to the half of my kingdom!" and she struck an
                        attitude, as Isabella of Castile, addressing the great Columbus, with the
                        dust-brush for a sceptre, and the towel, which she had pinned about her
                        head, for a crown.
                    "You are so funny," he said, with a faint smile.
                        "But I wish you'd be sober a minute."
                    "Haven't had but one cup of coffee this morning. But what
                        do you want?"
                    "Jack"
                    "Oh, yes, it's always Jack with you. But that's
                        rightJack deserves it."
                    "Jack can't do his sums, and he won't ask you to
                        help him."
                    "And so he got you to ask?"
                    "No, he didn't. He wouldn't let me, if he knew. He
                        thinks a young lady like you would't want to take the trouble to
                        help him."
                    
                    "Do you tell that stupid Jack, that if he doesn't want to
                        offend me so that I'll never, never forgive him, he is to bring his
                        slate and pencil over here after supper this evening. And you'll
                        come, too, with your geography. Yours truly, Susan Lanham, Professor of
                        Mathematics and Natural Science in the Greenbank Independent and
                        Miscellaneous Academy. Do you hear?"
                    "All right." And Columbus, smiling faintly, went off to
                        tell Jack the good news. That evening Susan had, besides her own brother and
                        two sisters, two pupils who learned more arithmetic than they would have
                        gotten in the same time from Mr. Ball, though she did keep them laughing at
                        her drollery. The next evening, little Joanna Merwin joined the party, and
                        Professor Susan felt quite proud of her "academy," as she
                        called it.
                    Bob Holliday caught the infection, and went to studying at home. As he was
                        not so far advanced as Jack, he contented himself with asking
                        Jack's help when he was in trouble. At length, he had a difficulty
                        that Jack could not solve.
                    "Why don't you take that to the professor?" asked
                        Jack. "I'll ask her to show you."
                    "I dursn't," said Bob, with a frightened look.
                    "Nonsense!" said Jack.
                    That evening, when the lessons were ended, Jack said:
                    "Professor Susan, there was a story in the old First  Reader we had in the first school that I went
                        to, about a dog who had a lame foot. A doctor cured his foot, and some time
                        after, the patient brought another lame dog to the doctor, and showed by
                        signs that he wanted this other dog cured, too."
                    "That's rather a good dog-story," said Susan.
                        "But what made you think of it?"
                    "Because I'm that first dog."
                    "You are?"
                    "Yes. You've helped me, but there's Bob Holliday.
                        I've been helping him, but he's got to a place where I
                        don't quite understand the thing myself. Now Bob wouldn't
                        dare ask you to help him"
                    "Bring him along. How the Greenbank Academy grows!" laughed
                        Susan, turning to her father.
                    Bob was afraid of Susan at firsthis large fingers trembled so much that he
                        had trouble to use his slatepencil. But by the third evening his shyness had
                        worn off, so that he got on well.
                    One evening, after a week of attendance, he was missing. The next morning he
                        came to Jack's house with his face scratched and his eye bruised.
                    "What's the matter?" asked Jack.
                    "Well, you see, yesterday I was at the school-house at noon, and
                        Pewee, egged on by Riley, said something he oughtn't to, about
                        Susan, and I couldn't stand there and hear that girl made fun of,
                        and so I up and downed  him, and made him take
                        it back. I can't go till my face looks better, you know, for I
                        wouldn't want her to know anything about it."
                    But the professor heard all about it from Joanna, who had it from one of the
                        school-boys. Susan sent Columbus to tell Bob that she knew all about it, and
                        that he must come back to school.
                    "So you've been fighting, have you?" she said,
                        severely, when Bob appeared. The poor fellow was glad she took that toneif
                        she had thanked him he wouldn't have been able to reply.
                    "Yes."
                    "Well, don't you do it any more. It's very wrong
                        to fight. It makes boys brutal. A girl with ability enough to teach the
                        Greenbank Academy can take care of herself, and she doesn't want
                        her scholars to fight.
                    "All right," said Bob. "But," he
                        muttered, "I'll thrash him all the same, and more than
                        ever, if he ever says anything like that again."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV.
                    CROWING AFTER VICTORY.
                    Greenbank was awake, and the old master had to go. Mr.
                        Weathervane stood up for him as long as he thought that the excitement was
                        temporary. But when he found that Greenbank really was awake, and not just
                        talking in its sleep, as it did for the most part, he changed sides,not all
                        at once, but by degrees. At first he softened down a little,
                        "hemmed and hawed," as folks say. He said he did not know
                        but that Mr. Ball had been hasty, but he meant well. The next day he took
                        another step, and said that the old master meant well, but he was often too hasty in his temper. The next week he let
                        himself down another peg in saying that "maybe" the old
                        man meant well, but he was altogether too hot in his temper for a
                        school-master. A little while later, he found out that Mr. Ball's
                        way of teaching was quite out of date. Before a month had elapsed, he was
                        sure that the old curmudgeon ought to be put out, and thus at last Mr.
                        Weathervane found himself where he liked to be, in the popular party.
                    And so the old master came to his last day in the  brick school-house. Whatever feelings he may have had in leaving behind
                        him the scenes of his twenty-five years of labor, he said nothing. He only
                        compressed his lips a little more tightly, scowled as severely as ever,
                        removed his books and pens from his desk, gave a last look at his long beech
                        swithches on the wall, turned the key in the door of the school-house,
                        carried it to Mr. Weathervane, received his pay, and walked slowly home to
                        the house of his brother-in-law, Mr. Higbie.
                    The boys had resolved to have a demonstration. All their pent-up wrath
                        against the master now found vent, since there was no longer any danger that
                        the old man would have a chance to retaliate. They would serenade him. Bob
                        Holliday was full of it. Harry Weathervane was very active. He was going to
                        pound on his mother's bread-pan. Every sort of instrument for
                        making a noise was brought into requisition. Dinner-bells, tin-pails,
                        conch-shell dinner-horns, tin horns, and even the village bass-drum, were to
                        be used.
                    Would Jack go? Bob came over to inquire. All the boys were going to celebrate
                        the downfall of a harsh master. He deserved it for beating Columbus. So Jack
                        resolved to go.
                    But after the boys had departed, Jack began to doubt whether he ought to go
                        or not. It did not seem quite right; yet his feelings had become so enlisted
                        in the conflict for the old man's removal, that he had grown to be
                             a bitter partisan, and the recollection of
                        all he had suffered, and of all Columbus had endured during his sickness,
                        reconciled Jack to the appearance of crowing over a fallen foe, which this
                        burlesque serenade would have. Nevertheless, his conscience was not clear on
                        the point, and he concluded to submit the matter to his mother, when she
                        should come home to supper.
                    Unfortunately for Jack, his mother stayed away to tea, sending Jack word that
                        he would have to get his own supper, and that she would come home early in
                        the evening. Jack ate his bowl of bread and milk in solitude, trying to make
                        himself believe that his mother would approve of his taking part in the
                        "shiveree" of the old master. But when he had finished his
                        supper, he concluded that if his mother did not come home in time for him to
                        consult her, he would remain at home. He drew up by the light and tried to
                        study, but he longed to be out with the boys. After a while, Bob Holliday
                        and Harry Weathervane came to the door and importuned Jack to come with
                        them. It was lonesome at home: it would be good fun to celebrate the
                        downfall of the old master's cruel rule, so, taking down an old
                        dinner-bell, Jack went off to join the rest. He was a little disgusted when
                        he found Riley, Pewee, and Ben Berry in the company, but once in the crowd,
                        there was little chance to back out with credit. The boys crept through the
                        back alleys until they came in front of Mr. Higbie's house, at  half-past eight o'clock. There was
                        but one light visible, and that was in Mr. Ball's room. Jack
                        dropped behind, a little faint of heart about the expedition. He felt sure
                        in himself that his mother would shake her head if she knew of it. At
                        lenghth, at a signal from Bob, the tin-pans, big and little, the
                        skillet-lids grinding together, the horns, both conch-shell and tin, and the
                        big bass-drum, set up a hideous clattering, banging, booming, roaring, and
                        racketing. Jack rang his dinner-bell rather faintly, and stood back behind
                        all the rest.
                    "Jack's afraid," said Pewee. "Why
                        don't you come up to the front, like a man?"
                    Jack could not stand a taunt like this, but came forward into the cluster of
                        half-frightened peace-breakers. Just then, the door of Mr. Higbie's
                        house was opened, and some one came out.
                    "It's Mr. Higbie," said Ben Berry.
                        "He's going to shoot."
                    "It's Bugbee, the watchman, going to arrest us,"
                        said Pewee.
                    "It's Mr. Ball himself," said Riley, "and
                        he'll whip us all." And he fled, followed pell-mell by the
                        whole crowd, excepting Jack, who had a constitutional aversion to running
                        away. He only slunk up close to the fence and so stood still.
                    "Hello! Who are you?" The voice was not that of Mr. Higbie,
                        nor that of the old master, nor of the 
                        watchman, Bugbee. With some difficulty, Jack recognized the figure of Doctor
                        Lanham. "Oh, it's Jack Dudley, is it?" said the
                        doctor, after examining him in the feeble moonlight.
                    "Yes," said Jack, sheepishly.
                    "You're the one that got that whipping from the old master.
                        I don't wonder you came out to-night."
                    "I do," said Jack, "and I would rather now that I
                        had taken another such whipping than to find myself here."
                    "Well, well," said the doctor, "boys will be
                        boys."
                    "And fools will be fools, I suppose," said Jack.
                    "Mr. Ball is very ill," continued the doctor.
                        "Find the others and tell them they mustn't come here
                        again tonight, or they'll kill him. I wouldn't have had
                        this happen for anything. The old man's just broken down by the
                        strain he has been under. He has deserved it all, but I think you might let
                        him have a little peace now."
                    "So do I," said Jack, more ashamed of himself than ever.
                    The doctor went back into the house, and Jack Dudley and his dinner-bell
                        started off down the street in search of Harry Weathervane and his tin pan,
                        and Bob Holliday and his skillet-lids, and Ben Berry and the bassdrum.
                    "Hello, Jack!" called out Bob from an alley. "You
                        stood your ground the best of all, didn't you?"
                    
                    "I wish I'd stood my ground in the first place against you
                        and Harry, and stayed at home."
                    "Why, what's the matter? Who was it?"
                    By this time the other boys were creeping out of their hiding-places and
                        gathering about Jack.
                    "Well, it was the doctor," said Jack. "Mr.
                        Ball's very sick and we've most killed him;
                        that's all. We're a pack of cowards to go tooting at a
                        poor old man when he's already down, and we ought to be kicked,
                        every one of us. That's the way I feel about it," and Jack
                        set out for home, not waiting for any leave-taking with the rest, who, for
                        their part, slunk away in various directions, anxious to get their
                        instruments of noise and torment hidden away out of sight.
                    Jack stuck the dinner-bell under the hay in the stable-loft, whence he could
                        smuggle it into the house before his mother should get down-stairs in the
                        morning. Then he went into the house.
                    "Where have you been?" asked Mrs. Dudley. "I came
                        home early so that you needn't be lonesome."
                    "Bob Holliday and Harry Weathervane came for me, and I found it so
                        lonesome here that I went out with them."
                    "Have you got your lessons?"
                    "No, ma'am," said Jack, sheepishly.
                    He was evidently not at ease, but his mother said no more. He went off to bed
                        early, and lay awake a good  part of the night.
                        The next morning he brought the old dinner-bell and set it down in the very
                        middle of the breakfast-table. Then he told his mother all about it. And she
                        agreed with him that he had done a very mean thing.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV.
                    AN ATTEMPT TO COLLECT.
                    Three times a week the scholars of the "Greenbank
                        Academy" met at the house of Dr. Lanham to receive instruction from
                        Professor Susan, for the school trustees could not agree on a new teacher.
                        Some of the people wanted one thing, and some another; a lady teacher was
                        advocated and opposed; a young man, an old man, a new-fashioned man, an
                        old-fashioned man, and no teacher at all for the rest of the present year,
                        so as to save money, were projects that found advocates. The division of
                        opinion was so great that the plan of no school at all was carried because
                        no other could be. So Susan's class went on for a month, and grew
                        to be quite a little society, and then it came to an end.
                    One evening, when the lessons were finished, Professor Susan said:
                        "I am sorry to tell you that this is the last lesson I can
                        give."
                    And then they all said "Aw-w-w-w-w!" in a melancholy way.
                    "I am going away to school myself." Susan went on.
                    
                    "My father thinks I ought to go to Mr. Niles's school at
                        Port William."
                    "I shouldn't think you'd need to go any
                        more," said Joanna Merwin. "I thought you knew
                        everything."
                    "Oh, bless me!" cried Susan.
                    In former days the people of the interiorthe Mississippi Valleywhich used
                        then to be called "the West," were very desirous of
                        education for their children. But good teachers were scarce. Ignorant and
                        pretentious men, incompetent wanderers from New England, who had grown tired
                        of clock-peddling, or tin-peddling, and whose whole stock was assurance,
                        besides impostors of other sorts, would get places as teachers because
                        teachers were scarce and there were no tests of fitness. Now and then a
                        retired Presbyterian minister from Scotland or Pennsylvania, or a college
                        graduate from New England, would open a school in some country town. Then
                        people who could afford it would send their children from long distances to
                        board near the school, and learn English grammar, arithmetic, and, in some
                        cases, a little Latin, or, perhaps, to fit themselves for entrance to some
                        of the sturdy little country colleges already growing up in that region. At
                        Port William, in Kentucky, there was at this time an old minister, Mr.
                        Niles, who really knew what he professed to teach, and it was to his school
                        that Dr. Lanham was now about to send Susan; Harvey Collins and Henry
                        Weathervane had already entered  the school.
                        But for poor boys like Jack, and Bob Holliday, and Columbus, who had no
                        money with which to pay board, there seemed no chance.
                    The evening on which Susan's class broke up, there was a long and
                        anxious discussion between Jack Dudley and his mother.
                    "You see, Mother, if I could get even two months in Mr.
                        Niles's school, I could learn some Latin, and if I once get my
                        fingers into Latin, it is like picking bricks out of a pavement; if I once
                        get a start, I can dig it out myself. I am going to try to find some way to
                        attend that school."
                    But the mother only shook her head.
                    "Couldn't we move to Port William?" said Jack.
                    "How could we? Here we have a house of our own, which
                        couldn't easily be rented. There we should have to pay rent, and
                        where is the money to come from?"
                    "Can't we collect something from Gray?"
                    Again Mrs. Dudley shook her head.
                    But Jack resolved to try the hard-hearted debtor, himself. It was now four
                        years since Jack's father had been persuaded to release a mortgage
                        in order to relieve Francis Gray from financial distress. Gray had promised
                        to give other security, but his promise had proved worthless. Since that
                        time he had made lucky speculations and was now a man rather well off, but
                        he kept all his property in his wife's name, as scoundrels and
                        fraudulent debtors usually do. All that Jack and his mother had to show for
                             the one thousand dollars with four
                        years' interest due them, was a judgment against Francis Gray, with
                        the sheriff's return of "no effects" on the back
                        of the writ of execution against the property "of the aforesaid
                        Francis Gray." For how could you get money out of a man who was
                        nothing in law but an agent for his wife?
                    But Jack believed in his powers of persuasion, and in the softness of the
                        human heart. He had never had to do with a man in whom the greed for money
                        had turned the heart to granite.
                    Two or three days later, Jack heard that Francis Gray, who lived in
                        Louisville, had come to Greenbank. Without consulting his mother, lest she
                        should discourage him, Jack went in pursuit of the slippery debtor. He had
                        left town, however, to see his fine farm, three miles away, a farm which
                        belonged in law to Mrs. Gray, but which belonged of right to Francis
                        Gray's creditors.
                    Jack found Mr. Gray well-dressed and of plausible manners. It was hard to
                        speak to so fine a gentleman on the subject of money. For a minute, Jack
                        felt like backing out. But then he contrasted his mother's pinched
                        circumstances with Francis Gray's abundance, and a little wholesome
                        anger came to his assistance. He remembered, too, that his cherished
                        projects for getting an education were involved, and he mustered courage to
                        speak.
                    "Mr. Gray, my name is John Dudley."
                    
                    Jack thought that there was a sign of annoyance on Gray's face at
                        this announcement.
                    "You borrowed a thousand dollars of my father once, I
                        believe."
                    "Yes, that is true. Your father was a good friend of mine."
                    "He released a mortgage so that you could sell a piece of property
                        when you were in trouble."
                    "Yes, your father was a good friend to me. I acknowledge that. I
                        wish I had money enough to pay that debt. It shall be the very first debt
                        paid when I get on my feet again, and I expect to get on my feet, as sure as
                        I live."
                    "But, you see, Mr. Gray, while my mother is pinched for money, you
                        have plenty."
                    "It's all Mrs. Gray's money. She has plenty. I
                        have't anything."
                    "But I want to go to school to Port William. My mother is too poor
                        to help me. If you could let me have twenty-five dollars"
                    "But, you see, I can't. I haven't got twenty-five
                        dollars to my name, that I can control. But by next New Year's I
                        mean to pay your mother the whole thousand that I owe her."
                    This speech impressed Jack a little, but remembering how often Gray had
                        broken such promises, he said:
                    "Don't you think it a little hard that you and Mrs.  Gray are well off, while my mother is so
                        poor, all because you won't keep your word given to my
                        father?"
                    "But, you see, I haven't any money, excepting what Mrs.
                        Gray lets me have," said Mr. Gray.
                    "She seems to let you have what you want. Don't you think,
                        if you coaxed her, she would lend you twentyfive dollars till New
                        Year's, to help me go to school one more term?"
                    Francis Gray was a little stunned by this way of asking it. For a moment,
                        looking at the entreating face of the boy, he began to feel a disposition to
                        relent a little. This was new and strange for him. To pay twenty-five
                        dollars that he was not obliged by any self-interest to pay, would have been
                        an act contrary to all his habits and to all the business maxims in which he
                        had schooled himself. Nevertheless, he fingered his papers a minute in an
                        undecided way, and then he said that he couldn't do it. If he began
                        to pay creditors in that way "it would derange his
                        business."
                    "But," urged Jack, "think how much my father
                        deranged his business to oblige you, and now you rob me of my own money, and
                        of my chance to get an education."
                    Mr. Gray was a little ruffled, but he got up and went out of the room. When
                        Jack looked out of the window a minute later, Gray was riding away down the
                        road without so much as bidding the troublesome Jack good-morning.
                    
                    There was nothing for Jack to do but to return to town and make the best of
                        it. But all the way back, the tired and discouraged boy felt that his last
                        chance of becoming an educated man had vanished. He told his mother about
                        his attempt on Mr. Gray's feelings and of his failure. They
                        discussed the matter the whole evening, and could see no chance for Jack to
                        get the education he wanted.
                    "I mean to die a-trying," said Jack, doggedly, as he went
                        off to bed.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI.
                    AN EXPLORING EXPEDITION.
                    The next day but one, there came a letter to Mrs. Dudley
                        that increased her perplexity.
                    "Your Aunt Hannah is sick," she said to Jack, "and
                        I must go to take care of her. I don't know what to do with
                        you."
                    "I'll go to Port William to school," said Jack.
                        "See if I don't."
                    "How?" asked his mother. "We don't know a
                        soul on that side of the river. You couldn't make any
                        arrangement."
                    "Maybe I can," said Jack. "Bob Holliday used to
                        live on the Indiana side, opposite Port William. I mean to talk with
                        him."
                    Bob was setting onions in one of the onion-patches which abounded about
                        Greenbank, and which were, from March to July, the principal sources of
                        pocket-money to the boys. Jack thought best to wait until the day's
                        work was finished. Then he sat, where Greenbank boys were fond of sitting,
                        on the sloping top-board of a broad fence, 
                        and told his friend Bob of his eager desire to go to Port William.
                    "I'd like to go too," said Bob. "This is
                        the last year's schooling I'm to have."
                    "Don't you know any house, or any place, where we could
                        keep 'bach' together?"
                    "W'y, yes," said Bob; "if you
                        didn't mind rowing across the river every day, I've got a
                        skiff, and there's the old hewed-log house on the Indianny side
                        where we used to live. A body might stay as long as he pleased in that
                        house, I guess. Judge Kane owns it, and he's one of the
                        best-hearted men in the country."
                    "It's eight miles down there," said Jack.
                    "Only seven if you go by water," said Bob.
                        "Let's put out to-morry morning early. Let's go
                        in the skiff; we can row and cordelle it up the river again, though it is a
                        job."
                    Bright and early, the boys started down the river, rowing easily with the
                        strong, steady current of the Ohio, holding their way to Judge
                        Kane's, whose house was over against Port William. This Judge Kane
                        was an intelligent and wealthy farmer, liked by everybody. He was not a
                        lawyer, but had once held the office of "associate judge,"
                        and hence the title, which suited his grave demeanor. He looked at the two
                        boys out of his small, gray, kindly eyes, hardly ever speaking a word. He
                        did not immediately answer when they asked permission  to occupy the old, unused log-house, but got them to talk
                        about their plans, and watched them closely. Then he took them out to see
                        his bees. He showed them his ingenious hives and a bee-house which he had
                        built to keep out the moths by drawing chalklines about it, for over these
                        lines the wingless grub of the moth could not crawl. Then he showed them a
                        glass hive, in which all the processes of the bees' housekeeping
                        could be observed. After that, he took the boys to the old log-house, and
                        pointed out some holes in the roof that would have to be fixed. And even
                        then he did not give them any answer to their request, but told them to stay
                        to dinner and he would see about it, all of which was rather hard on boyish
                        impatience. They had a good dinner of fried chicken and biscuits and honey,
                        served in the neatest manner by the motherly Mrs. Kane. Then the Judge
                        suggested that they ought to see Mr. Niles about taking them into the
                        school. So his skiff was launched, and he rowed with them across the river,
                        which is here about a mile wide, to Port William. Here he introduced them to
                        Mr. Niles, an elderly man, a little bent and a little positive in his tone,
                        as is the habit of teachers, but with true kindness in his manner. The boys
                        had much pleasure at recess time in greeting their old school-mates, Harvey
                        Collins, Henry Weathervane, and, above all, Susan Lanham, whom they called
                        Professor. These three took a sincere interest in the plans of  Bob and Jack, and Susan spoke a good word for
                        them to Mr. Niles, who, on his part, offered to give Jack Latin without
                        charging him anything more than the rates for scholars in the English
                        branches. Then they rowed back to Judge Kane's landing, where he
                        told them they could have the house without rent, and that they could get
                        slabs and other waste at his little saw-mill to fix up the cracks. Then he
                        made kindly suggestions as to the furniture they should bringmentioning a
                        lantern, an ax, and various other articles necessary for a camp life. They
                        bade him good-bye at last, and started home, now rowing against the current
                        and now cordelling along the river shore, when they grew tired of rowing. In
                        cordelling, one sits in the skiff and steers, while the other walks on the
                        shore, drawing the boat by a rope over the shoulders. The work of rowing and
                        cordelling was hard, but they carried light and hopeful hearts. Jack was
                        sure now that he should overcome all obstacles and get a good education. As
                        for Bob, he had no hope higher than that of worrying through vulgar
                        fractions before settling down to hard work.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII.
                    HOUSEKEEPING EXPERIENCES.
                    Mrs. Dudley having gone to Cincinnati
                        the next day to attend her sister, who was ill, Jack was left to make his
                        arrangements for housekeeping with Bob. Each of the boys took two cups, two
                        saucers, two plates, and two knives and forks. Things were likely to get
                        lost or broken, and therefore they provided duplicates. Besides, they might
                        have company to dinner some day, and, moreover, they would need the extra
                        dishes to "hold things," as Jack expressed it. They took
                        no tumblers, but each was provided with a tin cup. Bob remembered the
                        lantern, and Jack put in an ax. They did not take much food; they could buy
                        that of farmers or in Port William. They got a "gang," or,
                        as they called it, a "trotline," to lay down in the river
                        for catfish, perch, and shovel-nose sturgeon, for there was no game-law
                        then. Bob provided an iron pot to cook the fish in, and Jack a frying-pan
                        and tea-kettle. Their bedding consisted of an empty tick, to be filled with
                        straw in Judge Kane's barn, some equally empty pillow-ticks, and a
                        pair of brown sheets and two  blankets. But,
                        with one thing and another, the skiff was well loaded.
                    A good many boys stood on the bank as they embarked, and among them was
                        Columbus, who had a feeling that his best friends were about to desert him,
                        and who would gladly have been one of the party if he could have afforded
                        the expense.
                    In the little crowd which watched the embarkation was Hank Rathbone, an old
                        hunter and pioneer, who made several good suggestions about their method of
                        loading the boat.
                    "But where's your stove?" he asked.
                    "Stove?" said Bob. "We can't take a stove
                        in this thing. There's a big old fire-place in the house
                        that'll do to cook by."
                    "But hot weather's comin' soon," said old
                        Hank, "and then you'll want to cook out in the air, I
                        reckon. Besides, it takes a power of wood for a fire-place. If one of you
                        will come along with me to the tin-shop, I'll have a stove made for
                        you, of the best paytent-right sort, that'll go into a skiff, and
                        that won't weigh more'n three or four
                        pounds and won't cost but about two bits."
                    Jack readily agreed to buy as good a thing as a stove for twenty-five cents,
                        and so he went with Hank Rathbone to the tin-shop, stopping to get some iron
                        on the way. Two half-inch round rods of iron five feet long were cut and
                        sharpened at each end. Then the ends were 
                        turned down so as to make on each rod two pointed legs of eighteen inches in
                        length, and thus leave two feet of the rod for a horizontal piece.
                    "Now," said the old hunter, "you drive about six
                        inches of each leg into the ground, and stand them about a foot apart. Now
                        for a top."
                    For this he had a piece of sheet-iron cut out two feet long and fourteen
                        inches wide, with a round kettle-hole near one end. The edges of the long
                        sides of the sheet-iron were bent down to fit over the rods.
                    
                        OLD HANK'S PLAN FOR A STOVE.
                    
                    "Lay that over your rods," said Hank, "and
                        you've got a stove two foot long, one foot high, and more than one
                        foot wide, and you can build your fire of chips, instid of logs. You can put
                        your teakittle, pot, pipkin, griddle, skillet, or gridiron
                        on to the hole"the old man eyed it admiringly.
                        "It's good for bilin', fryin', or brilin', and all fer two bits. They
                        ain't many young couples gits set up as cheap as that!"
                    An hour and a half of rowing down-stream brought the boys to the old cabin.
                        The life there involved more hard work than they had expected.
                        Notwithstanding Jack's experience in helping his mother, the baking
                        of corn-bread, and the frying of bacon or fish, were difficult tasks, and
                        both the boys had red faces when supper was 
                        on the table. But, as time wore on, they became skilful, and though the work
                        was hard, it was done patiently and pretty well. Between cooking, and
                        cleaning, and fixing, and getting wood, and rowing to school and back, there
                        was not a great deal of time left for study out of school, but Jack made a
                        beginning in Latin, and Bob perspired quite as freely over the addition of
                        fractions as over the frying-pan.
                    They rarely had recreation, excepting that of taking the fish off their
                        trot-line in the morning, when there were any on it. Once or twice they
                        allowed themselves to visit an Indian mound or burial-place on the summit of
                        a neighboring hill, where idle boys and other loungers had dug up many bones
                        and thrown them down the declivity. Jack, who had thoughts of being a
                        doctor, made an effort to gather a complete Indian skeleton, but the dry
                        bones had become too much mixed up. He could not get any three bones to fit
                        together, and his man, as he tried to put him together, was the most
                        miscellaneous creature imaginable,neither man, woman, nor child. Bob was a
                        little afraid to have these human ruins stored under the house, lest he
                        might some night see a ghost with war-paint and tomahawk; but Jack, as
                        became a boy of scientific tastes, pooh-poohed all superstitions or
                        sentimental considerations in the matter. He told Bob that, if he should
                        ever see the ghost which that framework belonged to, it would be the ghost
                        of the whole 
                        
                            "THE LANDING OF CHRISTOPHER
                                COLUMBUS."
                        
                         Shawnee tribe, for there were nearly as many
                        individuals represented as there were bones in the skeleton.
                    The one thing that troubled Jack was that he couldn't get rid of the
                        image of Columbus as they had seen him when they left Greenbank, standing
                        sorrowfully on the river bank. The boys often debated between themselves how
                        they could manage to have him one of their party, but they were both too
                        poor to pay the small tuition fees, though his board would not cost much.
                        They could not see any way of getting over the difficulty, but they talked
                        with Susan about it, and Susan took hold of the matter in her fashion by
                        writing to her father on the subject.
                    The result of her energetic effort was that one afternoon, as they came out
                        of school, when the little packet-steamer was landing at the wharf, who
                        should come ashore but Christopher Columbus, in his best but threadbare
                        clothes, tugging away at an old-fashioned carpetbag, which was too much for
                        him to carry. Bob seized the carpet-bag and almost lifted the dignified
                        little lad himself off his feet in his joyful welcome, while Jack, finding
                        nothing else to do, stood still and hurrahed. They soon had the dear little
                        spindle-shanks and his great carpet-bag stowed away in the skiff. As they
                        rowed to the north bank of the river, Columbus explained how Dr. Lanham had
                        undertaken to pay his expenses, if the boys would take him into partnership,
                        but he said he was  'most afraid to
                        come, because he couldn't chop wood, and he wasn't good
                        for much in doing the work.
                    "Never mind, honey," said Bob. "Jack and I
                        don't care whether you work or not. You are worth your keep, any
                        time."
                    "Yes," said Jack, "we even tried hard yesterday to
                        catch a young owl to make a pet of, but we couldn't get it. You
                        see, we're so lonesome."
                    "I suppose I'll do for a pet owl, won't
                        I?" said little Columbus, with a strange and quizzical smile on his
                        meagre face. And as he sat there in the boat, with his big head and large
                        eyes, the name seemed so appropriate that Bob and Jack both laughed
                        outright.
                    But the Pet Owl made himself useful in some ways. I am sorry to say that the
                        housekeeping of Bob and Jack had not always been of the tidiest kind. They
                        were boys, and they were in a hurry. But Columbus had the tastes of a girl
                        about a house. He did not do any cooking or chopping to speak of, but he
                        fixed up. He kept the house neat, cleaned the candlestick every morning, and
                        washed the windows now and then, and as spring advanced he brought in
                        handfuls of wild flowers. The boys declared that they had never felt at home
                        in the old house until the Pet Owl came to be its mistress. He
                        wouldn't let anything be left around out of place, but all the
                        pots, pans, dishes, coats, hats, books, slates, the lantern, the boot-jack,
                        and other slender furniture, were put in order  before school time, so that when they got back in the afternoon the place
                        was inviting and home-like. When Judge Kane and his wife stopped during
                        their Sunday-afternoon stroll, to see how the lads got on, Mrs. Kane praised
                        their housekeeping.
                    "That is all the doings of the Pet Owl," said Bob.
                    "Pet Owl? Have you one?" asked Mrs. Kane.
                    The boys laughed, and Bob explained that Columbus was the pet.
                    That evening, the boys had a box of white honey for supper, sent over by Mrs.
                        Kane, and the next Saturday afternoon Jack and Bob helped Judge Kane finish
                        planting his corn-field.
                    One unlucky day, Columbus discovered Jack's box of Indian bones
                        under the house, and he turned pale and had a fit of shivering for a long
                        time afterward. It was necessary to move the box into an old stable to quiet
                        his shuddering horror. The next Sunday afternoon, the Pet Owl came in with
                        another fit of terror, shivering as before.
                    "What's the matter now, Lummy?" said Jack.
                        "Have you seen any more Indians?"
                    "Pewee and his crowd have gone up to the Indian Mound,"
                        said Columbus.
                    "Well, let'em go," said Bob. "I suppose
                        they know the way, don't they? I should like to see them.
                        I've been so long away from Greenbank that even a yellow dog from
                        there would be welcome."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII.
                    GHOSTS.
                    Jack and Bob had to amuse Columbus with stories, to divert
                        his mind from the notion that Pewee and his party meant them some harm. The
                        Indian burying-ground was not an uncommon place of resort on Sundays for
                        loafers and idlers, and now and then parties came from as far as Greenbank,
                        to have the pleasure of a ride and the amusement of digging up Indian relics
                        from the cemetery on the hill. This hill-top commanded a view of the Ohio
                        River for many miles in both directions, and of the Kentucky River, which
                        emptied into the Ohio just opposite. I do not know whether the people who
                        can find amusement in digging up bones and throwing them downhill enjoy
                        scenery or not, but I have heard it urged that even some dumb animals, as
                        horses, enjoy a landscape; and I once knew a large dog, in Switzerland, who
                        would sit enchanted for a long time on the brink of a mountain cliff, gazing
                        off at the lake below. It is only fair to suppose, therefore, that even
                        these idle diggers in Indian mounds had some pleasure in looking from a
                        hill-top; at  any rate, they were fond of
                        frequenting this one. Pewee, and Riley, and Ben Berry, and two or three
                        others of the same feather, had come down on this Sunday to see the Indian
                        Mound and to find any other sport that might lie in their reach. When they
                        had dug up and thrown away down the steep hill-side enough bones to satisfy
                        their jackal proclivities, they began to cast about them for some more
                        exciting diversion. As there were no water-melon patches nor orchards to be
                        robbed at this season of the year, they decided to have an egg-supper, and
                        then to wait for the moon to rise after midnight before starting to row and
                        cordelle their two boats up the river again to Greenbank. The fun of an
                        egg-supper to Pewee's party consisted not so much in the eggs as in
                        the manner of getting them. Every nest in Judge Kane's
                        chicken-house was rummaged that night, and Mrs. Kane found next day that all
                        the nest-eggs were gone, and that one of her young hens was missing also.
                    About dark, little Allen Mackay, a round-bodied, plump-faced, jolly fellow
                        who lived near the place where the skiffs were landed, and who had spent the
                        afternoon at the Indian Mound, came to the door of the old loghouse.
                    "I wanted to say that you fellows have always done the right thing
                        by me. You've set me acrost oncet or twicet, and you've
                        always been 'clever' to me, and I don't want to
                        see no harm done you. You'd better look  out to-night. They's some chaps from Greenbank down
                        here, and they're in for a frolic, and somebody's
                        henroost'll suffer, I guess; and they don't like you boys,
                        and they talked about routing you out to-night."
                    "Thank you," said Jack.
                    "Let'em rout," said Bob.
                    But the poor little Pet Owl was all in a cold shudder again.
                    About eleven o'clock, King Pewee's party had picked the
                        last bone of Mrs. Kane's chicken. It was yet an hour and a half
                        before the moon would be up, and there was time for some fun. Two boys from
                        the neighborhood, who had joined the party, agreed to furnish dough-faces
                        for them all. Nothing more ghastly than masks of dough can well be imagined,
                        and when the boys all put them on, and had turned their coats wrong-side
                        out, they were almost afraid of one another.
                    "Now," said Riley, "Pewee will knock at the door,
                        and when they come with their lantern or candle, we'll all rush in
                        and howl like Indians."
                    "How do Indians howl?" asked Ben Berry.
                    "Oh, any waylike a dog or a wolf, you know. And then
                        they'll be scared to death, and we'll just pitch their
                        beds, and dishes, and everything else out of the door, and show them how to
                        clean house."
                    Riley didn't know that Allen Mackay and Jack Dudley, hidden in the
                        bushes, heard this speech, nor that  Jack, as
                        soon as he had heard the plan, crept away to tell Bob at the house what the
                        enemy proposed to do.
                    As the crowd neared the log-house, Riley prudently fell to the rear, and
                        pushed Pewee to the front. There was just the faintest whitening of the sky
                        from the coming moon, but the large apple-trees in front of the log house
                        made it very dark, and the dough-face crowd were obliged almost to feel
                        their way as they came into the shadow of these trees. Just as Riley was
                        exhorting Pewee to knock at the door, and the whole party was tittering at
                        the prospect of turning Bob, Jack, and Columbus out of bed and out of doors,
                        they all stopped short and held their breaths.
                    "Good gracious! Julius Csar! sakes alive!" whispered Riley.
                        "Whatwhwhat is that?"
                    Nobody ran. All stood as though frozen in their places. For out from behind
                        the corner of the house came slowly a skeleton head. It was ablaze inside,
                        and the light shone out of all the openings. The thing had no feet, no
                        hands, and no body. It actually floated through the air, and now and then
                        joggled and danced a little. It rose and fell, but still came nearer and
                        nearer to the attacking party of dough-faces, who for their part could not
                        guess that Bob Holliday had put a lighted candle into an Indian's
                        skull, and then tied this ghost's lantern to a wire attached to the
                        end of a fishing-rod, which he operated from behind the house.
                    
                    Pewee's party drew close together, and Riley whispered hoarsely:
                    "The house is ha'nted."
                    Just then the hideous and fiery death's-head made a circuit, and
                        swung, grinning, into Riley's face, who could stand no more, but
                        broke into a full run toward the river. At the same instant, Jack tooted a
                        dinner-horn, Judge Kane's big dog ran barking out of the log-house,
                        and the enemy were routed like the Midianites before Gideon. Their
                        consternation was greatly increased at finding their boats gone, for Allen
                        Mackay had towed them into a little creek out of sight, and hidden the oars
                        in an elder thicket. Riley and one of the others were so much afraid of the
                        ghosts that "ha'nted" the old house, that they
                        set out straightway for Greenbank, on foot. Pewee and the others searched
                        everywhere for the boats, and at last sat down and waited for daylight. Just
                        as day was breaking, Bob Holliday came down to the river with a towel, as
                        though for a morning bath. Very accidentally, of course, he came upon Pewee
                        and his party, all tired out, sitting on the bank in hope that day might
                        throw some light on the fate of their boats.
                    "Hello, Pewee! You here? What's the matter?" said
                        Bob, with feigned surprise.
                    "Some thief took our skiffs. We've been looking for them
                        all night, and can't find them."
                    "That's curious," said Bob, sitting down and
                        leaning  his head on his hand. "Where
                        did you get supper last night?"
                    "Oh! we brought some with us."
                    "Look here, Pewee, I'll bet I can find your
                        boats."
                    "How?"
                    "You give me money enough among you to pay for the eggs and the
                        chicken you had for supper, and I'll find out who hid your boats
                        and where the oars are, and it'll all be square."
                    Pewee was now sure that the boat had been taken as indemnity for the chicken
                        and the eggs. He made every one of the party contribute something until he
                        had collected what Bob thought sufficient to pay for the stolen things, and
                        Bob took it and went up and found Judge Kane, who had just risen, and left
                        the money with him. Then he made a circuit to Allen Mackay's, waked
                        him up, and got the oars, which they put into the boats; and pushing these
                        out of their hiding-place, they rowed them into the river, delivering them
                        to Pewee and company, who took them gratefully. Jack and Columbus had now
                        made their appearance, and as Pewee got into his boat, he thought to repay
                        Bob's kindness with a little advice.
                    "I say, if I was you fellers, you know, I wouldn't stay in
                        that old cabin a single night."
                    "Why?" asked Jack.
                    
                    "Because," said Pewee, "I've heard tell
                        that it is ha'nted."
                    "Ghosts aren't anything when you get used to
                        them," said Jack. "We don't mind them at
                        all."
                    "Don't you?" said Pewee, who was now rowing
                        against the current.
                    "No," said Bob, "nor dough-faces
                        neither."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX.
                    THE RETURN HOME.
                    As Mr. Niles's school-term drew to a close, the two boys began to
                        think of their future.
                    "I expect to work with my hands, Jack," said Bob;
                    "I haven't got a head for books, as you have. But
                        I'd like to know a leetle more before I settle
                        down. I wish I could make enough at something to be able to go to school
                        next winter."
                    "If I only had your strength and size, Bob, I'd go to work
                        for somebody as a farmer. But I have more than myself to look after. I must
                        help mother after this term is out. I must get something to do, and then
                        learning will be slow business. They talk about Ben Franklin studying at
                        night and all that, but it's a little hard on a fellow who
                        hasn't the constitution of a Franklin. Still, I'm going to
                        have an education, by hook or crook."
                    At this point in the conversation, Judge Kane came in. As usual, he said
                        little, but he got the boys to talk about their own affairs.
                    "When do you go home?" he asked.
                    "Next Friday evening, when school is out," said Jack.
                    
                    "And what are you going to do?" he asked of Bob.
                    "Get some work this summer, and then try to get another winter of
                        schooling next year," was the answer.
                    "What kind of work?"
                    "Oh, I can farm better than I can do anything else," said
                        Bob. "And I like it, too."
                    And then Judge Kane drew from Jack a full account of his affairs, and
                        particularly of the debt due from Gray, and of his interview with Gray.
                    "If you could get a few hundred dollars, so as to make your mother
                        feel easy for a while, living as she does in her own house, you could go to
                        school next winter."
                    "Yes, and then I could get on after that, somehow, by myself, I
                        suppose," said Jack. "But the few hundred dollars is as
                        much out of my reach as a million would be, and my father used to say that
                        it was a bad thing to get into the way of figuring on things that we could
                        never reach."
                    The Judge sat still, and looked at Jack out of his halfclosed gray eyes for a
                        minute in silence.
                    "Come up to the house with me," he said, rising.
                    Jack followed him to the house, where the Judge opened his desk and took out
                        a red-backed memorandum-book, and dictated while Jack copied in his own
                        handwriting the description of a piece of land on a slip of paper.
                    
                    "If you go over to school, to-morrow, an hour earlier than
                        usual," he said, "call at the county clerk's
                        office, show him your memorandum, and find out in whose name that land
                        stands. It is timber-land five miles back, and worth five hundred dollars.
                        When you get the name of the owner, you will know what to do; if not, you
                        can ask me, but you'd better not mention my name to anybody in this
                        matter."
                    Jack thanked Mr. Kane, but left him feeling puzzled. In fact, the
                        farmer-judge seemed to like to puzzle people, or at least he never told
                        anything more than was necessary.
                    The next morning, the boys were off early to Port William. Jack wondered if
                        the land might belong to his father, but then he was sure his father never
                        had any land in Kentucky. Or, was it the property of some dead uncle or
                        cousin, and was he to find a fortune, like the hero of a cheap story? But
                        when the county clerk, whose office it is to register deeds in that county,
                        took the little piece of paper, and after scanning it, took down some great
                        deed-books and mortgage-books, and turned the pages awhile, and then wrote
                        "Francis Gray, owner, no incumbrance," on the same slip
                        with the description, Jack had the key to Mr. Kane's puzzle.
                    It was now Thursday forenoon, and Jack was eager on all accounts to get home,
                        especially to see the lawyer in charge of his father's claim
                        against Mr. Gray. So the  next day at noon, as
                        there was nothing left but the closing exercises, the three boys were
                        excused, and bade good-bye to their teacher and school-mates, and rowed back
                        to their own side of the river. They soon had the skiff loaded, for all
                        three were eager to see the folks at Greenbank. Jack's mother had
                        been at home more than a week, and he was the most impatient of the three.
                        But they could not leave without a good-bye to Judge Kane and his wife, to
                        which good-bye they added a profusion of bashful boyish thanks for kindness
                        received. The Judge walked to the boat-landing with them. Jack began to tell
                        him about the land.
                    "Don't say anything about it to me, nor to anybody else but
                        your lawyer," said Mr. Kane; "and do not mention my name.
                        You may say to your lawyer that the land has just changed hands, and the
                        matter must be attended to soon. It won't stand exposed in that way
                        long."
                    When the boys were in the boat ready to start, Mr. Kane said to Bob:
                    "You wouldn't mind working for me this summer at the
                        regular price?"
                    "I'd like to," said Bob.
                    "How soon can you come?"
                    "Next Wednesday evening."
                    "I'll expect you," said the Judge, and he turned
                        away up the bank, with a slight nod and a curt "Good-bye,"
                        while Bob said: "What a curious man he is!"
                    
                    "Yes, and as good as he's curious," added Jack.
                    It was a warm day for rowing, but the boys were both a little homesick. Under
                        the shelter of a point where the current was not too strong the two rowed
                        and made fair headway, sometimes encountering an eddy which gave them a
                        lift. But whenever the current set strongly toward their side of the river,
                        and whenever they found it necessary to round a point, one of them would
                        leap out on the pebbly beach and, throwing the boat-rope over his shoulder,
                        set his strength against the stream. The rope, or cordelle,a word that has come down from the first French travellers
                        and traders in the great valley, was tied to the row-locks. It was necessary
                        for one to steer in the stern while the other played tow-horse, so that each
                        had his turn at rest and at work. After three hours' toil the
                        wharf-boat of the village was in sight, and all sorts of familiar objects
                        gladdened their hearts. They reached the landing, and then, laden with
                        things, they hurriedly cut across the commons to their homes.
                    As soon as Jack's first greeting with his mother was over, she told
                        him that she thought she might afford him one more quarter of school.
                    "No," said Jack, "you've pinched yourself
                        long enough for me; now it's time I should go to work. If you try
                        to squeeze out another quarter of school for me you'll have to
                        suffer for it. Besides, I don't see how you can do it, unless Gray
                        comes down, and I think I have  now in my
                        pocket something that will make him come down." And Jack's
                        face brightened at the thought of the slip of paper in the pocket of his
                        roundabout.
                    Without observing the last remark, nor the evident elation of Jack's
                        feelings, Mrs. Dudley proceeded to tell him that she had been offered a
                        hundred and twenty dollars for her claim against Gray.
                    "Who offered it?" asked Jack.
                    "Mr. Tinkham, Gray's agent. May be Gray is buying up his
                        own debts, feeling tired of holding property in somebody else's
                        name."
                    "A hundred and twenty dollars for a thousand! The rascal! I
                        wouldn't take it," broke out Jack, impetuously.
                    "That's just the way I feel, Jack. I'd rather wait
                        forever, if it wasn't for your education. I can't afford
                        to have you lose that. I'm to give an answer this
                        evening."
                    "We won't do it," said Jack.
                        "I've got a memorandum here," and he took the
                        slip of paper from his pocket and unfolded it, "that'll
                        bring more money out of him than that. I'm going to see Mr. Beal at
                        once."
                    Mrs. Dudley looked at the paper without understanding just what it was, and
                        without giving her any further explanation, but only a warning to secrecy,
                        Jack made off to the lawyer's office.
                    "Where did you get this?" asked Mr. Beal.
                    "I promised not to mention his nameI mean the  name of the one who gave me that. I went to the
                        clerk's office with the description, and the clerk wrote the words
                        'Francis Gray, owner, no incumbrance.'"
                    "I wish I had had it sooner," said the lawyer. "It
                        will be best to have our judgment recorded in that county
                        to-morrow," he continued. "Could you go down to Port
                        William?"
                    "Yes, sir," said Jack, a little reluctant to go back.
                    "I could if I must."
                    "I don't think the mail will do," added Mr. Beal.
                    "This thing came just in time. We should have sold the claim
                        to-night. This land ought to fetch five hundred dollars."
                    Mr. Tinkham, agent for Francis Gray, was much disappointed that night when
                        Mrs. Dudley refused to sell her claim against Gray.
                    "You'll never get anything any other way," he
                        said.
                    "Perhaps not, but we've concluded to wait," said
                        Mrs. Dudley. "We can't do much worse if we get nothing at
                        all."
                    After a moment's reflection, Mr. Tinkham said:
                    "I'll do a little better by you, Mrs.
                        Dudley. I'll give you a hundred and fifty. That's the very
                        best I can do."
                    "I will not sell the claim at present," said Mrs. Dudley.
                        "It is of no use to offer."
                    It would have been better if Mrs. Dudley had not spoken so positively. Mr.
                        Tinkham was set a-thinking.  Why
                        wouldn't the widow sell? Why had she changed her mind since
                        yesterday? Why did Mr. Beal, the lawyer, not appear at the consultation? All
                        these questions the shrewd little Tinkham asked himself, and all these
                        questions he asked of Francis Gray that evening.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX.
                    A FOOT-RACE FOR MONEY.
                    "They've got wind of
                        something," said Mr. Tinkham to Mr. Gray, "or else they
                        are waiting for you to resume payment,or else the widow's got money
                        from somewhere for her present necessities."
                    "I don't know what hope they can have of getting money out
                        of me," said Gray, with a laugh. "I've tangled
                        everything up, so that Beal can't find a thing to levy on. I have
                        but one piece of property exposed, and that's not in this
                        State."
                    "Where is it?" asked Tinkham.
                    "It's in Kentucky, five miles back of Port William. I took
                        it last week in a trade, and I haven't yet made up my mind what to
                        do with it."
                    "That's the very thing," said Tinkham, with his
                        little face drawn to a point,"the very thing. Mrs.
                        Dudley's son came home from Port William yesterday, where he has
                        been at school. They've heard of that land, I'm afraid;
                        for Mrs. Dudley is very positive that she will not sell the claim at any
                        price."
                    "I'll make a mortgage to my brother on that land,  and send it off from the mail-boat as I go
                        down to-morrow," said Gray.
                    "That'll be too late," said Tinkham.
                        "Beal will have his judgment recorded as soon as the packet gets
                        there. You'd better go by the packet, get off, and see the mortgage
                        recorded yourself, and then take the mail-boat."
                    To this Gray agreed, and the next day, when Jack went on board the packet
                        "Swiftsure," he found Mr. Francis Gray going aboard also.
                        Mr. Beal had warned Jack that he must not let anybody from the packet get to
                        the clerk's office ahead of him,that the first paper deposited for
                        record would take the land. Jack wondered why Mr. Francis Gray was aboard
                        the packet, which went no farther than Madison, while Mr. Gray's
                        home was in Louisville. He soon guessed, however, that Gray meant to land at
                        Port William, and so to head him off. Jack looked at Mr. Gray's
                        form, made plump by good feeding, and felt safe. He couldn't be
                        very dangerous in a foot-race. Jack reflected with much hopefulness that no
                        boy in school could catch him in a straight-away run when he was fox. He
                        would certainly leave the somewhat puffy Mr. Francis Gray behind.
                    But in the hour's run down the river, including two landings at
                        Minuit's and Craig's, Jack had time to remember that
                        Francis Gray was a cunning man, and might head him off by some trick or
                        other. A vague fear took possession of him, and he resolved to be first  off the boat before any pretext could be
                        invented to stop him.
                    Meantime, Francis Gray had looked at Jack's lithe legs with
                        apprehension. "I can never beat that boy," he had
                        reflected. "My running days are over." Finding among the
                        deck passengers a young fellow who looked as though he needed money, Gray
                        approached him with this question:
                    "Do you belong in Port William, young man?"
                    "I don't belong nowhere else, I reckon," answered
                        the seedy fellow, with shuffling impudence.
                    "Do you know where the county clerk's office is?"
                        asked Mr. Gray.
                    "Yes, and the market-house. I can show you the way to the jail, too,
                        if you want to know; but I s'pose you've been there many a
                        time," laughed the "wharf rat."
                    Gray was irritated at this rudeness, but he swallowed his anger.
                    "Would you like to make five dollars?"
                    "Now you're talkin' interestin'. Why
                        didn't you begin at that eend of the subjick? I'd like to
                        make five dollars as well as the next feller, provided it isn't to
                        be made by too much awful hard work."
                    "Can you run well?"
                    "If they's money at t'other eend of the race I can
                        run like sixty fer a spell. 'Tain't my
                        common gait, howsumever."
                    
                    "If you'll take this paper," said Gray,
                        "and get it to the county clerk's office before anybody
                        else gets there from this boat, I'll give you five
                        dollars."
                    "Honor bright?" asked the chap, taking the paper, drawing a
                        long breath, and looking as though he had discovered a gold mine.
                    "Honor bright," answered Gray. "You must jump off
                        first of all, for there's a boy aboard that will beat you if he
                        can. No pay if you don't win."
                    "Which is the one that'll run ag'in'
                        me?" asked the long-legged fellow.
                    Gray described Jack, and told the young man to go out forward and he would
                        see him. Gray was not willing to be seen with the
                        "wharf-rat," lest suspicions should be awakened in Jack
                        Dudley's mind. But after the shabby young man had gone forward and
                        looked at Jack, he came back with a doubtful air.
                    "That's Hoosier Jack, as we used to call him,"
                        said the shabby young man. "He an' two more used to row a
                        boat acrost the river every day to go to ole Niles's school.
                        He's a hard one to beat,they say he used to lay the whole school
                        out on prisoners' base, and that he could leave 'em all
                        behind on fox."
                    "You think you can't do it, then?" asked Gray.
                    "Gimme a little start and I reckon I'll fetch it.
                        It's up-hill part of the way and he may lose his wind, for
                        it's a good half-mile. You must make a row with him at the  gang-plank, er do somethin' to
                        kinder hold him back. The wind's down stream to-day and the
                        boat's shore to swing in a little aft. I'll jump for it
                        and you keep him back."
                    To this Gray assented.
                    As the shabby young fellow had predicted, the boat did swing around in the
                        wind, and have some trouble in bringing her bow to the wharf-boat. The
                        captain stood on the hurricane-deck calling to the pilot to "back
                        her," "stop her," "go ahead on
                        her," "go ahead on yer labberd," and
                        "back on yer stabberd." Now, just as the captain was
                        backing the starboard wheel and going ahead on his larboard, so as to bring
                        the boat around right, Mr. Gray turned on Jack.
                    "What are you treading on my toes for, you impudent young
                        rascal?" he broke out.
                    Jack colored and was about to reply sharply, when he caught sight of the
                        shabby young fellow, who just then leaped from the gunwale of the boat
                        amidships and barely reached the wharf. Jack guessed why Gray had tried to
                        irritate him,he saw that the well-known "wharf-rat" was to
                        be his competitor. But what could he do? The wind held the bow of the boat
                        out, the gang-plank which had been pushed out ready to reach the wharf-boat
                        was still firmly grasped by the deckhands, and the farther end of it was six
                        feet from the wharf, and much above it. It would be some minutes  before any one could leave the boat in the
                        regular way. There was only one chance to defeat the rascally Gray. Jack
                        concluded to take it.
                    He ran out upon the plank amidst the harsh cries of the deck-hands, who tried
                        to stop him, and the oaths of the mate, who thundered at him, with the stern
                        order of the captain from the upper deck, who called out to him to go back.
                    But, luckily, the steady pulling ahead of the larboard engine, and the
                        backing of the starboard, began just then to bring the boat around, the
                        plank sank down a little under Jack's weight, and Jack made the
                        leap to the wharf, hearing the confused cries, orders, oaths, and shouts
                        from behind him, as he pushed through the crowd.
                    "Stop that thief!" cried Francis Gray to the people on the
                        wharf-boat, but in vain. Jack glided swiftly through the people, and got on
                        shore before anybody could check him. He charged up the hill after the
                        shabby young fellow, who had a decided lead, while some of the men on the
                        wharf-boat pursued them both, uncertain which was the thief. Such another
                        pell-mell race Port William had never seen. Windows flew up and heads went
                        out. Small boys joined the pursuing crowd, and dogs barked indiscriminately
                        and uncertainly at the heels of everybody. There were cries of
                        "Hurrah for long Ben!" and "Hurrah for Hoosier
                        Jack!" Some of Jack's old school-mates essayed to stop him
                        to find out  what it was all about, but he
                        would not relax a muscle, and he had no time to answer any questions. He saw
                        the faces of the people dimly; he heard the crowd crying after him,
                        "Stop, thief!" he caught a glimpse of his old teacher, Mr.
                        Niles, regarding him with curiosity as he darted by; he saw an anxious look
                        in Judge Kane's face as he passed him on a street corner. But Jack
                        held his eyes on Long Ben, whom he pursued as a dog does a fox. He had
                        steadily gained on the fellow, but Ben had too much the start, and, unless
                        he should give out, there would be little chance for Jack to overtake him.
                        One thinks quickly in such moments. Jack remembered that there were two ways
                        of reaching the county clerk's office. To keep the street around
                        the block was the natural way, to take an alley through the square was
                        neither longer nor shorter. But by running down the alley he would deprive
                        Long Ben of the spur of seeing his pursuer, and he might even make him think
                        that Jack had given out. Jack had played this trick when playing hound and
                        fox, and at any rate he would by this turn shake off the crowd. So into the
                        alley he darted, and the bewildered pursuers kept on crying "stop
                        thief!" after Long Ben, whose reputation was none of the best.
                        Somebody ahead tried to catch the shabby young fellow, and this forced Ben
                        to make a slight curve, which gave Jack the advantage, so that just as Ben
                        neared the office, Jack rounded a corner out of an alley, and entered ahead
                        of  him, dashed up to the clerk's
                        desk and deposited the judgment.
                    "For record," he gasped.
                    The next instant the shabby young fellow pushed forward the mortgage.
                    "Mine first!" cried Long Ben.
                    "I'll take yours when I get this entered," said
                        the clerk, quietly, as became a public officer.
                    "I got here first," said Long Ben.
                    But the clerk looked at the clock and entered the date on the back of
                        Jack's paper, putting "one o'clock and eighteen
                        minutes" after the date. Then he wrote "one
                        o'clock and nineteen minutes" on the paper which Long Ben
                        handed him. The office was soon crowded with people discussing the result of
                        the race, and a part of them were even now in favor of seizing one or the
                        other of the runners for a theft, which some said had been committed on the
                        packet, and others declared was committed on the wharf-boat. Francis Gray
                        came in, and could not conceal his chagrin.
                    "I meant to do the fair thing by you," he said to Jack,
                        severely, "but now you'll never get a cent out of
                        me."
                    "I'd rather have the law on men like you, than have a
                        thousand of your sort of fair promises," said Jack.
                    "I've a mind to strike you," said Gray.
                    "The Kentucky law is hard on a man who strikes a  minor," said Judge Kane, who had
                        entered at that moment.
                    Mr. Niles came in to learn what was the matter, and Judge Kane, after
                        listening quietly to the talk of the people, until the excitement subsided,
                        took Jack over to his house, whence the boy trudged home in the late
                        afternoon full of hopefulness.
                    Gray's land realized as much as Mr. Beal expected, and Jack studied
                        hard all summer, so as to get as far ahead as possible by the time school
                        should begin in the autumn.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI.
                    THE NEW TEACHER.
                    The new teacher who was employed to take the Greenbank
                        school in the autumn was a young man from college. Standing behind the desk
                        hitherto occupied by the grim-faced Mr. Ball, young Williams looked very
                        mild by contrast. He was evidently a gentle-spirited man as compared with
                        the old master, and King Pewee and his crowd were gratified in noting this
                        fact. They could have their own way with such a master as that! When he
                        called the school to order, there remained a bustle of curiosity and mutual
                        recognition among the children. Riley and Pewee kept up a little noise by
                        way of defiance. They had heard that the new master did not intend to whip.
                        Now he stood quietly behind his desk, and waited a few moments in silence
                        for the whispering group to be still. Then he slowly raised and levelled his
                        finger at Riley and Pewee, but still said nothing. There was something so
                        firm and quiet about his motionsomething that said," I will wait
                        all day, but you must be still"that the boys could not resist it.
                    By the time they were quiet, two of the girls had got  into a titter over something, and the forefinger was aimed at
                        them. The silent man made the pupils understand that he was not to be
                        trifled with.
                    When at length there was quiet, he made every one lay down book or slate and
                        face around toward him. Then with his pointing finger, or with a little slap
                        of his hands together, or with a word or two at most, he got the school
                        still again.
                    "I hope we shall be friends," he said, in a voice full of
                        kindliness. "All I want is to"
                    But at this point Riley picked up his slate and book, and turned away. The
                        master snapped his fingers, but Riley affected not to hear him.
                    "That young man will put down his slate." The master spoke
                        in a low tone, as one who expected to be obeyed, and the slate was
                        reluctantly put upon the desk.
                    "When I am talking to you, I want you to hear," he went on,
                        very quietly. "I am paid to teach you. One of the things I have to
                        teach you is good manners. You," pointing to Riley, "are
                        old enough to know better than to take your slate when your teacher is
                        speaking, but perhaps you have never been taught what are good manners.
                        I'll excuse you this time. Now, you all see those switches hanging
                        here behind me. I did not put them there. I do not say that I shall not use
                        them. Some boys have to be whipped, I suppose,like  mules,and when I have tried, I may find that I cannot get on
                        without the switches, but I hope not to have to use them."
                    Here Riley, encouraged by the master's mildness and irritated by the
                        rebuke he had received, began to make figures on his slate.
                    "Bring me that slate," said the teacher.
                    Riley was happy that he had succeeded in starting a row. He took his slate
                        and his arithmetic, and shuffled up to the master in a half-indolent,
                        half-insolent way.
                    "Why do you take up your work when I tell you not to?"
                        asked the new teacher.
                    "Because I didn't want to waste all my morning. I wanted to
                        do my sums."
                    "You are a remarkably industrious youth, I take it." The
                        young master looked Riley over, as he said this, from head to foot. The
                        whole school smiled, for there was no lazier boy than this same Riley.
                        "I suppose," the teacher continued, "that you are
                        the best scholar in schoolthe bright and shining light of
                        Greenbank."
                    Here there was a general titter at Riley.
                    "I cannot have you sit away down at the other end of the school-room
                        and hide your excellent example from the rest. Stand right up here by me and
                        cipher, that all the school may see how industrious you are."
                    Riley grew very red in the face and pretended to "cipher,"
                        holding his book in his hand.
                    
                    "Now," said the new teacher, "I have but just one
                        rule for this school, and I will write it on the blackboard that all may see
                        it."
                    He took chalk and wrote: 
                            
                                DO RIGHT.
                            
                        
                    
                    "That is all. Let us go to our lessons."
                    For the first two hours that Riley stood on the floor he pretended to enjoy
                        it. But when recess came and went and Mr. Williams did not send him to his
                        seat, he began to shift from one foot to the other and from his heels to his
                        toes, and to change his slate from the right hand to the left. His class was
                        called, and after recitation he was sent back to his place. He stood it as
                        best he could until the noon recess, but when, at the beginning of the
                        afternoon session, Mr. Williams again called his "excellent
                        scholar" and set him up, Riley broke down and said:
                    "I think you might let me go now."
                    "Are you tired?" asked the cruel Mr. Williams.
                    "Yes, I am," and Riley hung his head, while the rest
                        smiled.
                    "And are you ready to do what the good order of the school
                        requires?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Very well; you can go."
                    The chopfallen Riley went back to his seat, convinced  that it would not do to rebel against the new teacher, even if
                        he did not use the beech switches.
                    But Mr. Williams was also quick to detect the willing scholar. He gave Jack
                        extra help on his Latin after school was out, and Jack grew very proud of
                        the teacher's affection for him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII.
                    CHASING THE FOX.
                    All the boys in the river towns thirty years agoand
                        therefore the boys in Greenbank, alsotook a great interest in the
                        steam-boats which plied up and down the Ohio. Each had his favorite boat,
                        and boasted of her speed and excellence. Every one of them envied those
                        happy fellows whose lot it was to "run on the river" as
                        cabin-boys. Boats were a common topic of conversationtheir build, their
                        engines, their speed, their officers, their mishaps, and all the incidents
                        of their history.
                    So it was that from the love of steam-boats, which burned so brightly in the
                        bosom of the boy who lived on the banks of that great and lovely river,
                        there grew up the peculiar game of "boats'
                        names." I think the game was started at Louisville or New Albany,
                        where the falls interrupt navigation, and where many boats of the upper and
                        lower rivers are assembled.
                    One day, as the warm air of Indian summer in this mild climate made itself
                        felt, the boys assembled, on the evergreen "blue-grass,"
                        after the snack at the noon recess, to play boats' names.
                    
                    Through Jack's influence, Columbus, who did not like to play with
                        the A B C boys, was allowed to take the handkerchief and give out the first
                        name. All the rest stood up in a row like a spelling-class, while little
                        Columbus, standing in front of them, held a knotted handkerchief with which
                        to scourge them when the name should be guessed. The arm which held the
                        handkerchief was so puny that the boys laughed to see the feeble lad stand
                        there in a threatening attitude.
                    "I say, Lum, don't hit too hard, now; my back is
                        tender," said Bob Holliday.
                    "Give us an easy one to guess," said Riley, coaxingly.
                    Columbus, having come from the back country, did not know the names of half a
                        dozen boats, and what he knew about were those which touched daily at the
                        wharf of Greenbank.
                    "Fn," he said.
                    "Fashion," cried all the boys at once, breaking into
                        unrestrained mirth at the simplicity that gave them the name of Captain
                        Glenn's little Cincinnati and Port William packet, which landed
                        daily at the village wharf. Columbus now made a dash at the boys, who were
                        obliged to run to the school-house and back whenever a name was guessed,
                        suffering a beating all the way from the handkerchief of the one who had
                        given out the name, though, indeed, the punishment Lum was able to give was
                        very slight. It was doubtful who had guessed first, since the  whole party had cried
                        "Fashion" almost together, but it was settled at last in
                        favor of Harry Weathervane, who was sure to give out hard names, since he
                        had been to Cincinnati recently, and had gone along the levee reading the
                        names of those boats that did business above that city, and so were quite
                        unknown, unless by report, to the boys of Greenbank.
                    "AAs," were the three letters which Harry gave, and Ben
                        Berry guessed "Archibald Ananias," and Tom Holcroft said
                        it was "Amanda Amos," and at last all gave it up;
                        whereupon Harry told them it was "Alvin Adams," and
                        proceeded to give out another.
                    "CAPx," he said next time.
                    "Caps," said Riley, mistaking the x for an s; and then Bob
                        Holliday suggested "Hats and Caps," and Jack wanted to
                        have it "Boots and Shoes." But Johnny Meline remembered
                        that he had read of such a name for a ship in his Sunday-school lesson of
                        the previous Sunday, and he guessed that a steam-boat might bear that same.
                    "I know," said Johnny, "it's
                        Castor"
                    "Oil," suggested Jack.
                    "NoCastor and P, x,PolluxCastor and Pollux it's a Bible
                        name."
                    "You're not giving us the name of Noah's ark, are
                        you?" asked Bob.
                    "I say, boys, that isn't fair a bit," growled
                        Pewee, in all earnestness. "I don't hardly believe that
                        Bible ship's  a-going now."
                        Things were mixed in Pewee's mind, but he had a vague notion that
                        Bible times were as much as fifty years ago. While he stood doubting, Harry
                        began to whip him with the handkerchief, saying, "I saw her at
                        Cincinnati, last week. She runs to Maysville and Parkersburg, you
                        goose."
                    After many names had been guessed, and each guesser had taken his turn, Ben
                        Berry had to give out. He had just heard the name of a "lower
                        country" boat, and was sure that it would not be guessed.
                    "Cpr," he said.
                    "Oh, I know," said Jack, who had been studying the
                        steam-boat column of an old Louisville paper that very morning,
                        "it's thethe" and he put his hands over his ears,
                        closed his eyes, and danced around, trying to remember, while all the rest
                        stood and laughed at his antics. "Now I've got it,the
                        'Cornplanter'!"
                    And Ben Berry whipped the boys across the road and back, after which Jack
                        took the handkerchief.
                    "Oh, say, boys, this is a poor game; let's play
                        fox," Bob suggested. "Jack's got the
                        handkerchief, let him be the first fox."
                    So Jack took a hundred yards' start, and all the boys set out after
                        him. The fox led the hounds across the commons, over the bars, past the
                        "brick pond," as it was called, up the lane into
                        Moro's pasture, along the hillside to the west across
                        Dater's fence into Betts's pasture;  thence over into the large woods pasture of the Glade farm. In
                        every successive field some of the hounds had run off to the flank, and by
                        this means every attempt of Jack's to turn toward the river, and
                        thus fetch a circuit for home, had been foiled. They had cut him off from
                        turning through Moro's orchard or Betts's vineyard, and so
                        there was nothing for the fleet-footed fox but to keep steadily to the west
                        and give his pursuers no chance to make a cut-off on him. But every now and
                        then he made a feint of turning, which threw the others out of a straight
                        track. Once in the woods pasture, Jack found himself out of breath, having
                        run steadily for a rough mile and a half, part of it up-hill. He was yet
                        forty yards ahead of Bob Holliday and Riley, who led the hounds. Dashing
                        into a narrow path through the underbrush, Jack ran into a little clump of
                        bushes and hid behind a large black-walnut log.
                    Riley and Holliday came within six feet of him, some of the others passed to
                        the south of him and some to the north, but all failed to discover his
                        lurking-place. Soon Jack could hear them beating about the bushes beyond
                        him.
                    This was his time. Having recovered his wind, he crept out southward until he
                        came to the foot of the hill, and entered Glade's lane, heading
                        straight for the river across the wide plain. Pewee, who had perched himself
                        on a fence to rest, caught sight of Jack first, and soon  the whole pack were in full cry after him,
                        down the long, narrow elder-bordered lane. Bob Holliday and Riley, the
                        fleetest of foot, climbed over the high stake-and-rider fence into
                        Betts's corn-field, and cut off a diagonal to prevent
                        Jack's getting back toward the school-house. Seeing this movement,
                        Jack, who already had made an extraordinary run, crossed the fence himself,
                        and tried to make a cut-off in spite of them; but Riley already had got in
                        ahead of him, and Jack, seeing the boys close behind and before him, turned
                        north again toward the hill, got back into the lane, which was now deserted,
                        and climbed into Glade's meadow on the west side of the lane. He
                        now had a chance to fetch a sweep around toward the river again, though the
                        whole troop of boys were between him and the school-house. Fairly headed off
                        on the east, he made a straight run south for the river shore, striking into
                        a deep gully, from which he came out panting upon the beach, where he had
                        just time to hide himself in a hollow sycamore, hoping that the boys would
                        get to the westward and give him a chance to run up the river shore for the
                        school-house.
                    But one cannot play the same trick twice. Some of the boys staioned
                        themselves so as to intercept Jack's retreat toward the
                        school-house, while the rest searched for him, beating up and down the
                        gully, and up and down the beach, until they neared the hollow sycamore.
                        Jack made a sharp dash to get through them, but was  headed off and caught by Pewee. Just as Jack was caught, and
                        Pewee was about to start homeward as fox, the boys caught sight of two
                        steam-boats racing down the river. The whole party was soon perched on a
                        fallen sycamore, watching first the "Swiftsure" and then
                        the "Ben Franklin," while the black smoke poured from
                        their chimneys. So fascinated were they with this exciting contest that they
                        stayed half an hour waiting to see which should beat. At length, as the
                        boats passed out of sight, with the "Swiftsure" leading
                        her competitor, it suddenly occurred to Jack that it must be later than the
                        school-hour. The boys looked aghast at one another a moment on hearing him
                        mention this: then they glanced at the sun, already declining in the sky,
                        and set out for school, trotting swiftly in spite of their fatigue.
                    What would the master say? Pewee said he didn't care,it
                        wasn't Old Ball, and they wouldn't get a whipping, anyway.
                        But Jack thought that it was too bad to lose the confidence of Mr.
                    Williams.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII.
                    CALLED TO ACCOUNT.
                    Successful hounds, having caught their fox, ought to have
                        come home in triumph; but, instead of that, they came home like dogs that
                        had been killing sheep, their heads hanging down in a guilty and
                        self-betraying way.
                    Jack walked into the school-house first. It was an hour and a half past the
                        time for the beginning of school. He tried to look unconcerned as he went to
                        his seat. There stood the teacher, with his face very calm but very pale,
                        and Jack felt his heart sink.
                    One by one the laggards filed into the school-room, while the awe-stricken
                        girls on the opposite benches, and the little A B C boys, watched the guilty
                        sinners take their places, prepared to meet their fate.
                    Riley came in with a half-insolent smile on his face, as if to say:
                        "I don't care." Pewee was sullen and bulldoggish.
                        Ben Berry looked the sneaking fellow he was, and Harry Weathervane tried to
                        remember that his father was a school-trustee. Bob Holliday
                        couldn't help laughing in a foolish way. Columbus had fallen out of
                        the race before he got to the "brick-pond," and so had  returned in time to be punctual when school
                        resumed its session.
                    During all the time that the boys, heated with their exercise and blushing
                        with shame, were filling in, Mr. Williams stood with set face and regarded
                        them. He was very much excited, and so I suppose did not dare to reprove
                        them just then. He called the classes and heard them in rapid succession,
                        until it was time for the spelling-class, which comprised all but the very
                        youngest pupils. On this day, instead of calling the spelling-class, he
                        said, evidently with great effort to control himself: "The girls
                        will keep their seats. The boys will take their places in the
                        spelling-class."
                    Riley's lower jaw fellhe was sure that the master meant to flog them
                        all. He was glad he was not at the head of the class. Ben Berry could hardly
                        drag his feet to his place, and poor Jack was filled with confusion. When
                        the boys were all in place, the master walked up and down the line and
                        scrutinized them, while Riley cast furtive glances at the dusty old beech
                        switches on the wall, wondering which one the master would use, and Pewee
                        was trying to guess whether Mr. Williams's arm was strong, and
                        whether he "would make a fellow take off his coat" or not.
                    "Columbus," said the teacher, "you can take your
                        seat."
                    Riley shook in his shoes, thinking that this certainly  meant a whipping. He began to frame excuses in his mind, by
                        which to try to lighten his punishment.
                    But the master did not take down his switches. He only talked. But such a
                        talk! He told the boys how worthless a man was who could not be trusted, and
                        how he had hoped for a school full of boys that could be relied on. He
                        thought there were some boys, at least and this remark struck Jack to the
                        heartthat there were some boys in the school who would rather be treated as
                        gentlemen than beaten with ox-gads. But he was now disappointed. All of them
                        seemed equally willing to take advantage of his desire to avoid whipping
                        them; and all of them had shown themselves unfit to be
                        trusted.
                    
                    Here he paused long enough to let the full weight of his censure enter their
                        minds. Then he began on a new tack. He had hoped that he might have their
                        friendship. He had thought that they cared a little for his good opinion.
                        But now they had betrayed him. All the town was looking to see whether he
                        would succeed in conducting his school without whipping. A good many would
                        be glad to see him fail. To day they would be saying all over Greenbank that
                        the new teacher couldn't manage his school. Then he told the boys
                        that while they were sitting on the trunk of the fallen sycamore looking at
                        the steam-boat race, one of the trustees, Mr. Weathervane, had driven past
                        and had seen them there. He had stopped to complain to the master.
                    
                    "Now," said the master, "I have found how little
                        you care for me."
                    This was very sharp talk, and it made the boys angry. Particularly did Jack
                        resent any intimation that he was not to be trusted. But the new master was
                        excited and naturally spoke severely. Nor did he give the boys a chance to
                        explain at the time.
                    "You have been out of school," he said, "one hour
                        and thirty-one minutes. That is about equal to six fifteen-minute recessesto
                        the morning and afternoon recesses for three days. I shall have to keep you
                        in at those six recesses to make up the time, and in addition, as a
                        punishment, I shall keep you in school half an hour after the usual time of
                        dismission, for three days."
                    Here Jack made a motion to speak.
                    "No," said the master, "I will not hear a word,
                        now. Go home and think it over. To-morrow I mean to ask each one of you to
                        explain his conduct."
                    With this, he dismissed the school, and the boys went out as angry as a hive
                        of bees that have been disturbed. Each one made his speech. Jack thought it
                        "mean that the master should say they were not fit to be trusted.
                        He wouldn't have stayed out if he'd known it was
                        school-time."
                    Bob Holliday said "the young master was a blisterer," and
                        then he laughed good naturedly.
                    Harry Weathervane was angry, and so were all the  rest. At length it was agreed that they didn't want to be
                        cross-questioned about it, and that it was better that somebody should write
                        something that should give Mr. Williams a piece of their mind, and show him
                        how hard he was on boys that didn't mean any harm, but only forgot
                        themselves. And Jack was selected to do the writing.
                    Jack made up his mind that the paper he would write should be "a
                        scorcher."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV.
                    AN APOLOGY.
                    Of course, there was a great deal of talk in the village.
                        The I-told-you-so people were quite delighted. Old Mother Horn
                        "always knew that boys couldn't be managed without
                        switching. Didn't the Bible or somebody say: 'Just as the
                        twig is bent the boy's inclined?' And if you
                        don't bend your twig, what'll become of your
                        boy?"
                    The loafers and loungers and gad-abouts and gossips talked a great deal about
                        the failure of the new plan. They were sure that Mr. Ball would be back in
                        that school-house before the term was out, unless Williams should whip a
                        good deal more than he promised to. The boys would just drive him out.
                    Jack told his mother, with a grieved face, how harsh the new master had been,
                        and how he had even said they were not fit to be trusted.
                    
                    "That a very harsh word," said Mrs. Dudley, "but
                        let us make some allowances. Mr. Williams is on trial before the town, and
                        he finds himself nearly ruined by the thoughtlessness of the boys. He had to
                        wait an hour  and a half with half of the
                        school gone. Think how much he must have suffered in that time. And then, to
                        have to take a rebuke from Mr. Weathervane besides, must have stung him to
                        the quick."
                    "Yes, that's so," said Jack, "but then he
                        had no business to take it for granted that we did it on purpose."
                    And Jack went about his chores, trying to think of some way of writing to the
                        master an address which should be severe, but not too severe. He planned
                        many things but gave them up. He lay awake in the night thinking about it,
                        and, at last, when he had cooled off, he came to the conclusion that, as the
                        boys had been the first offenders, they should take the first step toward a
                        reconciliation. But whether he could persuade the angry boys to see it in
                        that light, he did not know.
                    When morning came, he wrote a very short paper, somewhat in this fashion: 
                            
                                
                                    "Mr. Williams.
                                    
                                    
                                        "Dear Sir: We are very sorry for
                                        what we did yesterday, and for the trouble we have given
                                        you. We are willing to take the punishment, for we think we
                                        deserve it; but we hope you will not think that we did it on
                                        purpose, for we did not, and we don't like to have
                                        you think so.
                                    "Respectfully submitted."
                                
                            
                        
                    Jack carried this in the first place to his faithful friend Bob Holliday, who
                        read it.
                    "Oh, you've come down, have you?" said Bob.
                    
                    "I thought we ought to," said Jack. "We did give him a great deal of trouble, and if it had been
                        Mr. Ball, he would have whipped us half to death."
                    "We shouldn't have forgot and gone away at that time if Old
                        Ball had been the master," said Bob.
                    "That's just it," said Jack;
                        "that's the very reason why we ought to
                        apologize."
                    "All right," said Bob, "I'll sign
                        her," and he wrote "Robert M. Holliday" in big
                        letters at the top of the column intended for the names. Jack put his name
                        under Bob's.
                    But when they got to the school-house it was not so easy to persuade the
                        rest. At length, however, Johnny Meline signed it, and then Harry
                        Weathervane, and then the rest, one after another, with some grumbling,
                        wrote their names. All subscribed to it excepting Pewee and Ben Berry and
                        Riley. They declared they never would sign it. They didn't want to
                        be kept in at recess and after school like convicts. They didn't
                        deserve it.
                    "Jack is a soft-headed fool," Riley said, "to draw
                        up such a thing as that. I'm not afraid of the master. I'm
                        not going to knuckle down to him, either."
                    Of course, Pewee, as a faithful echo, said just what Riley said, and Ben
                        Berry said what Riley and Pewee said; so that the three were quite
                        unanimous.
                    "Well," said Jack, "then we'll have to
                        hand in our petition without the signatures of the triplets."
                    
                    "Don't you call me a triplet," said Pewee;
                        "I've got as much sense as any of you. You're a
                        soft-headed triplet yourself!"
                    Even Riley had to join in the laugh that followed this blundering sally of
                        Pewee.
                    When the master came in, he seemed very much troubled. He had heard what had
                        been said about the affair in the town. The address which Jack had written
                        was lying on his desk. He took it up and read it, and immediately a look of
                        pleasure and relief took the place of the worried look he had brought to
                        school with him.
                    "Boys," he said, "I have received your petition,
                        and I shall answer it by and by."
                    The hour for recess came and passed. The girls and the very little boys were
                        allowed their recess, but nothing was said to the larger boys about their
                        going out. Pewee and Riley were defiant.
                    At length, when the school was about to break up for noon, the master put his
                        pen, ink, and other little articles in the desk, and the school grew hushed
                        with expectancy.
                    "This apology," said Mr. Williams, "which I see is
                        in John Dudley's handwriting, and which bears the signature of all
                        but three of those who were guilty of the offence yesterday, is a very manly
                        apology, and quite increases my respect for those who have signed it. I have
                        suffered much from your carelessness of yesterday, but  this apology, showing, as it does, the manliness of my boys,
                        has given me more pleasure than the offence gave me pain. I ought to make an
                        apology to you. I blamed you too severely yesterday in accusing you of
                        running away intentionally. I take all that back."
                    Here he paused a moment, and looked over the petition carefully.
                    "William Riley, I don't see your name here. Why is
                        that?"
                    "Because I didn't put it there."
                    Pewee and Ben Berry both laughed at this wit.
                    "Why didn't you put it there?"
                    "Because I didn't want to."
                    "Have you any explanation to give of your conduct
                        yesterday?"
                    "No, sir; only that I think it's mean to keep us in because
                        we forgot ourselves."
                    "Peter Rose, have you anything to say?"
                    "Just the same as Will Riley said."
                    "And you, Benjamin?"
                    "Oh, I don't care much," said Ben Berry.
                        "Jack was fox, and I ran after him, and if he hadn't run
                        all over creation and part of Columbia, I shouldn't have been late.
                        It isn't any fault of mine. I think Jack ought to do the staying
                        in."
                    "You are about as old a boy as Jack," said the master.
                        "I suppose Jack might say that if you and the  others hadn't chased him, he wouldn't have
                        run' all over creation,' as you put it. You and the rest
                        were all guilty of a piece of gross thoughtlessness. All excepting you three
                        have apologized in the most manly way. i therefore remove the punishment
                        from all the others entirely hereafter, deeming that the loss of this
                        morning's recess is punishment enough for boys who can be so manly
                        in their acknowledgments. Peter Rose, William Riley, and Benjamin Berry will
                        remain in school at both recesses and for a half-hour after school every day
                        for three daysnot only for having forgotten their duty, but for having
                        refused to make acknowledgment or apology."
                    Going home that evening, half an hour after all the others had been
                        dismissed, the triplets put all their griefs together, and resolved to be
                        avenged on Mr. Williams at the first convenient opportunity.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV.
                    KING'S BASE AND A SPELLING-LESSON.
                    As the three who usually gave the most trouble on the play-ground, as well as
                        in school, were now in detention at every recess, the boys enjoyed greatly
                        their play during these three days.
                    It was at this time that they began to play that favorite game of Greenbank,
                        which seems to be unknown almost everywhere else. It is called
                        "king's base," and is full of all manner of
                        complex happenings, sudden surprises, and amusing results.
                    Each of the boys selected a base or goal. A row of sidewalk trees were
                        favorite bases. There were just as many bases as boys. Some boy would
                        venture out from his base. Then another would pursue him; a third would
                        chase the two, and so it would go, the one who left his base latest having
                        the right to catch.
                    Just as Johnny Meline was about to lay hold on Jack, Sam Crashaw, having just
                        left his base, gave chase to Johnny, and just as Sam
                        thought he had a good chance to catch Johnny, up came Jack, fresh from
                        having touched his base, and nabbed Sam. When one has  caught another, he has a right to return to his base with his
                        prisoner, unmolested. The prisoner now becomes an active champion of the new
                        base, and so the game goes on until all the bases are broken up but one.
                        Very often the last boy on a base succeeds in breaking up a strong one, and,
                        indeed, there is no end to the curious results attained in the play.
                    Jack had never got on in his studies as at this time. Mr. Williams took every
                        opportunity to show his liking for his young friend, and Jack's
                        quickened ambition soon put him at the head of his classes. It was a rule
                        that the one who stood at the head of the great spelling-class on Friday
                        evenings should go to the foot on Monday, and so work his way up again.
                        There was a great strife between Sarah Weathervane and Jack to see which
                        should go to the foot the oftenest during the term, and so win a little
                        prize that Mr. Williams had offered to the best speller in the school. As
                        neither of them ever missed a word in the lesson, they held the head each
                        alternate Friday evening. In this way the contest bade fair to be a tie. But
                        Sarah meant to win the prize by fair means or foul.
                    One Friday morning before school-time, the boys and girls were talking about
                        the relative merits of the two spellers, Joanna maintaining that Sarah was
                        the better, and others that Jack could spell better than Sarah.
                    "Oh!" said Sarah Weathervane, "Jack is the best
                             speller in school. I study till my head
                        aches to get my lesson, but it is all the same to Jack whether he studies or
                        not. He has a natural gift for spelling, and he spends nearly all his time
                        on arithmetic and Latin."
                    This speech pleased Jack very much. He had stood at the head of the class all
                        the week, and spelling did seem to him the easiest thing in the world. That
                        afternoon he hardly looked at his lesson. It was so nice to think he could
                        beat Sarah Weathervane with his left hand, so to speak.
                    When the great spelling-class was called, he spelled the words given to him,
                        as usual, and Sarah saw no chance to get the coveted opportunity to stand at
                        the head, go down, and spell her way up again. But the very last word given
                        to Jack was sacrilege, and, not having studied the lesson,
                        he spelled it with e in the second syllable and i in the last. Sarah gave the letters correctly, and when
                        Jack saw the smile of triumph on her face, he guessed why she had flattered
                        him that morning. Hereafter he would not depend on his natural genius for
                        spelling. A natural genius for working is the best gift.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI.
                    UNCLAIMED TOP-STRINGS.
                    With a sinking heart, Jack often called to mind that this
                        was his last term at school. The little money that his father had left was
                        not enough to warrant his continuing; he must now do something for his own
                        support. He resolved, therefore, to make the most of his time under Mr.
                        Williams.
                    When Pewee, Riley, and Ben Berry got through with their punishment, they
                        sought some way of revenging themselves on the master for punishing them,
                        and on Jack for doing better than they had done, and thus escaping
                        punishment. It was a sore thing with them that Jack had led all the school
                        his way, so that, instead of the whole herd following King Pewee and Prime
                        Minister Riley into rebellion, they now "knuckled down to the
                        master," as Riley called it, under the lead of Jack, and they even
                        dared to laugh slyly at the inseparable "triplets."
                    The first aim of Pewee and company was to get the better of the master. They
                        boasted to Jack and Bob that they would fix Mr. Williams some time, and gave
                        out to  the other boys that they knew where
                        the master spent his evenings, and they knew how to fix him.
                    When Jack heard of this, he understood it. The teacher had a habit of
                        spending an evening, now and then, at Dr. Lanham's, and the boys no
                        doubt intended to play a prank on him in going or coming. There being now no
                        moonlight, the village streets were very dark, and there was every
                        opportunity for a trick. Riley's father's house stood next
                        on the street to Dr. Lanham's; the lots were divided by an alley.
                        This gave the triplets a good chance to carry out their designs.
                    But Bob Holliday and Jack, good friends to the teacher, thought that it would
                        be fun to watch the conspirators and defeat them. So, when they saw Mr.
                        Williams going to Dr. Lanham's, they stationed themselves in the
                        dark alley on the side of the street opposite to Riley's and took
                        observations. Mr. Williams had a habit of leaving Dr. Lanham's at
                        exactly nine o'clock, and so, just before nine, the three came out
                        of Riley's yard, and proceeded in the darkness to the fence of
                        Lanham's dooryard.
                    Getting the trunk of one of the large shade-trees between him and the
                        plotters, Jack crept up close enough to guess what they were doing and to
                        overhear their conversation. Then he came back to Bob.
                    "They are tying a string across the sidewalk on Lanham's
                        side of the alley, I believe," whispered Jack, "so  as to throw Mr. Williams head foremost into
                        that mudhole at the mouth of the alley."
                    By this time, the three boys had finished their arrangements and retreated
                        through the gate into the porch of the Riley house, whence they might keep a
                        lookout for the catastrophe.
                    "I'm going to cut that string where it goes around the
                        tree," said Bob, and he crouched low on the ground, got the trunk
                        of the tree between him and the Riley house, and crept slowly across the
                        street.
                    "I'll capture the string," said Jack, walking off
                        to the next cross-street, then running around the block until he came to the
                        back gate of Lanham's yard, which he entered, running up the walk
                        to the back door. His knock was answered by Mrs. Lanham.
                    "Why, Jack, what's the matter?" she asked, seeing
                        him at the kitchen door, breathless.
                    "I want to see Susan, please," he said, "and tell
                        Mr. Williams not to go yet a minute."
                    "Here's a mystery," said Mrs. Lanham, returning to
                        the sitting-room, where the teacher was just rising to say good-night.
                        "Here's Jack Dudley, at the back door, out of breath,
                        asking for Susan, and wishing Mr. Williams not to leave the house
                        yet."
                    "Susan ran to the back door.
                    "Susan," said Jack, "the triplets have tied a
                        string from the corner of your fence to the locust-tree, and  they're watching from
                        Riley's porch to see Mr. Williams fall into the mud-hole. Bob is
                        cutting the string at the tree, and I want you to go down along the fence
                        and untie it and bring it in. They will not suspect you if they see
                        you."
                    "I don't care if they do," said Susan, and she
                        glided out to the cross-fence which ran along the alley, followed it to the
                        front, and untied the string, fetching it back with her. When she got back
                        to the kitchen door she heard Jack closing the alley gate. He had run off to
                        join Bob, leaving the string in Susan's hands.
                    Dr. Lanham and the master had a good laugh over the captured string, which
                        was made of Pewee's and Riley's top-strings, tied
                        together.
                    The triplets did not see Susan go to the fence. They were too intent on what
                        was to happen to Mr. Williams. When, at length, he came along safely through
                        the darkness, they were bewildered.
                    "You didn't tie that string well in the middle,"
                        growled Pewee at Riley.
                    "Yes, I did," said Riley. "He must have stepped
                        over."
                    "Step over a string a foot high, when he didn't know it was
                        there?" said Pewee.
                    "Let's go and get the string," said Ben Berry.
                    So out of the gate they sallied, and quickly reached the place where the
                        string ought to have been.
                    
                    "I can't find this end," whispered Pewee by the
                        fence.
                    "The string's gone!" broke out Riley, after
                        feeling up and down the tree for some half a minute.
                    What could have become of it? They had been so near the sidewalk all the time
                        that no one could have passed without their seeing him.
                    The next day, at noon-time, when Susan Lanham brought out her lunch, it was
                        tied with Pewee's new topstring, the best one in the school.
                    "That's a very nice string," said Susan.
                    "It's just like Pewee's top-string,"
                        cried Harry Weathervane.
                    "Is it yours, Pewee?" said Susan, in her sweetest tones.
                    "No," said the king, with his head down;
                        "mine's at home."
                    "I found this one, last night," said Susan.
                    And all the school knew that she was tormenting Pewee, although they could
                        not guess how she had got his top-string. After a while, she made a dive
                        into her pocket, and brought out another string.
                    "Oh," cried Johnny Meline; "where did you get
                        that?"
                    "I found it."
                    "That's Will Riley's top-string," said
                        Johnny. "It was mine. He cheated me out of it by trading an old top
                        that wouldn't spin."
                    
                    "That's the way you get your top-strings, is it, Will? Is
                        this yours?" asked the tormenting Susan.
                    "No, it isn't."
                    "Of course it isn't yours. You don't tie
                        top-strings across the sidewalk at night. You're a gentleman, you
                        are! Come, Johnny, this string doesn't belong to anybody;
                        I'll trade with you for that old top that Will gave you for a good
                        string. I want something to remember honest Will Riley by."
                    Johnny gladly pocketed the string, and Susan carried off the shabby top, to
                        the great amusement of the school, who now began to understand how she had
                        come by the two top-strings.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII.
                    THE LAST DAY OF SCHOOL, AND THE LAST CHAPTER OF THE STORY.
                    It was the last day of the spring term of school. With
                        Jack this meant the end of his opportunity for going to school. What he
                        should learn hereafter he must learn by himself. The money was nearly out,
                        and he must go to work.
                    The last day of school meant also the expiration of the master's
                        authority. Whatever evil was done after school-hours on the last day was
                        none of his business. All who had grudges carried them forward to that day,
                        for thus they could revenge themselves without being called to account by
                        the master the next day. The last day of school had no to-morrow to be
                        afraid of. Hence, Pewee and his friends proposed to square accounts on the
                        last day of school with Jack Dudley, whom they hated for being the best
                        scholar, and for having outwitted them more than once.
                    It was on the first day of June that the school ended, and Mr. Williams bade
                        his pupils good-bye. The warm sun had by this time brought the waters of the
                        Ohio to  a temperature that made bathing
                        pleasant, and when the school closed, all the boys, delighted with liberty,
                        rushed to the river for a good swim together. In that genial climate one can
                        remain in the water for hours at a time, and boys become swimmers at an
                        early age.
                    Just below the village a raft was moored, and from this the youthful swimmers
                        were soon diving into the deep water like frogs. Every boy who could perform
                        any feat of agility displayed it. One would turn a somersault in the water,
                        and then dive from one side of the raft to another, one could float, and
                        another swim on his back, while a third was learning to tread water. Some
                        were fond of diving toes downward, others took headers. "The little
                        fellows" who could not swim kept on the inside of the great raft
                        and paddled about with the aid of slabs used for floats. Jack, who had lived
                        for years on the banks of the Wildcat, could swim and dive like a musquash.
                    Mr. Williams, the teacher, felt lonesome at saying good-bye to his school;
                        and to keep the boys company as long as possible, he strolled down to the
                        bank and sat on the grass watching the bathers below him, plunging and
                        paddling in all the spontaneous happiness of young life.
                    Riley and Peweeconspirators to the lasthad their plans arranged. When Jack
                        should get his clothes on, they intended to pitch him off the raft for a
                        good wetting,  and thus gratify their
                        long-hoarded jealousy, and get an offset to the standing joke about
                        doughfaces and ghosts which the town had at their expense. Ben Berry, who
                        was their confidant, thought this a capital plan.
                    When at lenght Jack had enjoyed the water enough, he came out and was about
                        to begin dressing. Pewee and Riley were close at hand, already dressed, and
                        prepared to give Jack a farewell ducking.
                    But just at that moment there came from the other end of the raft, and from
                        the spectators on the bank, a wild, confused cry, and all turned to hearken.
                        Harry Weathervane's younger brother, whose name was Andrew Jackson,
                        and who could not swim, in dressing, had stepped too far backward and gone
                        off the raft. he uttered a despairing and terrified scream, struck out
                        wildly and blindly, and went down.
                    All up and down the raft and up and down the bank there went up a cry:
                        "Andy is drowning!" while everybody looked for somebody
                        else to save him.
                    The school-master was sitting on the bank, and saw the accident. He quickly
                        slipped off his boots, but then he stopped, for Jack had already started on
                        a splendid run down that long raft. The confused and terrified boys made a
                        path for him quickly, as he came on at more than the tremendous speed he had
                        always shown in games. He did not stop to leap, but ran full tilt off the
                        raft, falling upon the drowning boy and carrying him  completely under water with him. Nobody breathed during the
                        two seconds that Jack, under water, struggled to get a good hold on Andy and
                        to keep Andy from disabling him by his blind grappling of Jack's
                        limbs.
                    When at length Jack's head came above water, there was an audible
                        sigh of relief from all the on-lookers. But the danger was not over.
                    "Let go of my arms, Andy!" cried Jack.
                        "You'll drown us both if you hold on that way. If you
                        don't let go I'll strike you."
                    Jack knew that it was sometimes necessary to stun a drowning person before
                        you could save him, where he persisted in clutching his deliverer. But poor
                        frightened Andy let go of Jack's arms at last. Jack was already
                        exhausted with swimming, and he had great difficulty in dragging the little
                        fellow to the raft, where Will Riley and Pewee Rose pulled him out of the
                        water.
                    But now, while all were giving attention to the rescued Andy, there occurred
                        with Jack one of those events which people call a cramp. I do not know what
                        to call it, but it is not a cramp. It is a king of collapsea sudden
                        exhaustion that may come to the best of swimmers. The heart insists on
                        resting, the consciousness grows dim, the will-power flags, and the strong
                        swimmer sinks.
                    Nobody was regarding Jack, who first found himself unable to make even an
                        effort to climb on the raft; then his hold on its edge relaxed, and he
                        slowly sank out  of sight. Pewee saw his
                        sinking condition first, and cried out, as did Riley and all the rest, doing
                        nothing to save Jack, but running up and down the raft in a vain search for
                        a rope or a pole.
                    The school-master, having seen that Andy was brought out little worse for his
                        fright and the water he had swallowed, was about to put on his boots when
                        this new alarm attracted his attention to Jack Dudley. Instantly he threw
                        off his coat and was bounding down the steep bank, along the plank to the
                        raft, and then along the raft to where Jack had sunk entirely out of sight.
                        Mr. Williams leaped head first into the water and made what the boys
                        afterward called a splendid dive. Once under water he opened his eyes and
                        looked about for Jack.
                    At last he came up, drawing after him the unconscious and apparently lifeless
                        form of Jack, who was taken from the water by the boys. The teacher
                        despatched two boys to bring Dr. Lanham, while he set himself to restore
                        consciousness by producing artificial breathing. It was some time after Dr.
                        Lanham's arrival that Jack fully regained his consciousness, when
                        he was carried home by the strong arms of Bob Holliday, Will Riley, and
                        Pewee, in turn.
                    And here I must do the last two boys the justice to say that they called to
                        inquire after Jack every day during the illness that followed, and the old
                        animosity to Jack was never afterward revived by Pewee and his friends.
                    
                    
                        BOB HOLIDAY CARRIES HOME HIS FRIEND.
                    
                    
                    On the evening after this accident and these rescues, Dr. Lanham said to Mrs.
                        Lanham and Susan and Mr. Williams, who happened to be there again, that a
                        boy was wanted in the new drug-store in the village, to learn the business,
                        and to sleep in the back room, so as to attend night-calls. Dr. Lanham did
                        not know why this Jack Dudley wouldn't be just the boy.
                    Susan, for her part, was very sure he would be; and Mr. Williams agreed with
                        Susan, as, indeed, he generally did.
                    Dr. Lanham thought that Jack might be allowed to attend school in the daytime
                        in the winter season, and if the boy had as good stuff in him as he seemed
                        to have, there was no reason why he shouldn't come to something
                        some day.
                    "Come to something!" said Susan. "Come to
                        something! Why, he'll make one of the best doctors in the country
                        yet."
                    And again Mr. Williams entirely agreed with Susan. Jack Dudley was sure to go
                        up to the head of the class.
                    Jack got the place, and I doubt not fulfilled the hope of his friends. I know
                        this, at least, that when a year or so later his good friend and teacher,
                        Mr. Williams, was married to his good and stanch friend, Susan Lanham,
                        Jack's was one of the happiest faces at the wedding.
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
