
     ----CITATION---- 
        Stratton-Porter, Gene, 1863-1924. A Daughter of the Land: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2371
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    A DAUGHTER OF THE LAND
                
                BY
                    GENE STRATTON-PORTER AUTHOR OF FRECKLES, ETC
                
                    GROSSET & DUNLAP PUBLISHERS
                    NEW YORK
                
            
            
            
            	VERSO
                COPYRIGHT, 1918, BY GENE STRATTON-PORTER ALL RIGHTS
                    RESERVED
                PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES AT THE COUNTRY LIFE PRESS,
                    GARDEN CITY, N.Y.
            
            
            
            	DEDICATION
                TO GENE STRATTON
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I. THE WINGS OF MORNING
                        3
                        
                    II. AN EMBRYO MIND READER
                        17
                        
                    III. PEREGRINATIONS
                        36
                        
                    IV. A QUESTION OF CONTRACTS
                        55
                        
                    V. THE PRODIGAL DAUGHTER
                        76
                        
                    VI. KATE'S PRIVATE PUPIL
                        95
                        
                    VII. HELPING NANCY ELLEN AND ROBERT TO ESTABLISH
                        A HOME
                        116
                        
                    VIII. THE HISTORY OF A LEGHORN HAT
                        129
                        
                    IX. A SUNBONNET GIRL
                        144
                        
                    X. JOHN JARDINE'S COURTSHIP
                        160
                        
                    XI. A BUSINESS PROPOSITION
                        174
                        
                    XII. TWO LETTERS
                        189
                        
                    XIII. THE BRIDE
                        206
                        
                    XIV. STARTING MARRIED LIFE
                        218
                        
                    XV. A NEW IDEA
                        237
                        
                    XVI. THE WORK OF THE SUN
                        255
                        
                    XVII. THE BANNER HAND
                        275
                        
                    XVIII. KATE TAKES THE BIT IN HER TEETH
                        295
                        
                    
                    XIX. "AS A MAN SOWETH" 309
                        
                    XX. "FOR A GOOD GIRL" 327
                        
                    XXI. LIFE'S BOOMERANG
                        346
                        
                    XXII. SOMEWHAT OF POLLY
                        365
                        
                    XXIII. KATE'S HEAVENLY TIME
                        374
                        
                    XXIV. POLLY TRIES HER WINGS
                        394
                        
                    XXV. ONE MORE FOR KATE
                        414
                        
                    XXVI. THE WINGED VICTORY
                        434
                        
                    XXVII. BLUE RIBBON CORN
                        446
                        
                    XXVIII. THE ELEVENTH HOUR
                        459
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
            	A DAUGHTER OF THE LAND
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    THE WINGS OF MORNING
                    
                    
                        TAKE the wings of Morning."
                    Kate Bates followed the narrow footpath rounding the corner of the small
                        country church, as the old minister raised his voice slowly and impressively
                        to repeat the command he had selected for his text. Fearing that her head
                        would be level with the windows, she bent and walked swiftly past the
                        church; but the words went with her, iterating and reiterating themselves in
                        her brain. Once she paused to glance back toward the church, wondering what
                        the minister would say in expounding that text. She had a fleeting thought
                        of slipping in, taking the back seat and listening to the sermon. The
                        remembrance that she had not dressed for church deterred her; then her face
                        twisted grimly as she again turned to the path, for it occurred to her that
                        she had nothing else to wear if she had started to attend church instead of
                        going to see her brother.
                    As usual, she had left her bed at four o'clock; for seven  hours she had cooked, washed dishes, made beds,
                        swept, dusted, milked, churned, following the usual routine of a big family
                        in the country. Then she had gone upstairs, dressed in clean gingham and
                        confronted her mother.
                    "I think I have done my share for to-day," she said.
                        "Suppose you call on our lady school-mistress for help with dinner.
                        I'm going to Adam's."
                    Mrs. Bates lifted her gaunt form to very close six feet of height, looking
                        narrowly at her daughter.
                    "Well, what the nation are you going to Adam's at this time
                        a-Sunday for?" she demanded.
                    "Oh, I have a curiosity to learn if there is one of the eighteen
                        members of this family who gives a cent what becomes of me!"
                        answered Kate, her eyes meeting and looking clearly into her
                        mother's.
                    "You are not letting yourself think he would 'give a
                        cent' to send you to that fool normal-thing, are you?"
                    "I am not! But it wasn't a 'fool thing'
                        when Mary and Nancy Ellen, and the older girls wanted to go. You even let
                        Mary go to college two years."
                    "Mary had exceptional ability," said Mrs. Bates.
                    "I wonder how she convinced you of it. None of the rest of us can
                        discover it," said Kate.
                    "What you need is a good strapping, Miss."
                    "I know it; but considering the facts that I am larger than you, and
                        was eighteen in September, I shouldn't advise you to attempt it.
                        What is the difference whether I was born in '62 or '42?
                        Give me the chance you gave  Mary, and
                        I'll prove to you that I can do anything she has alone, without
                        having 'exceptional ability!'"
                    "The difference is that I am past sixty now. I was stout as an ox
                        when Mary wanted to go to school. It is your duty and your job to stay here
                        and do this work."
                    "To pay for having been born last? Not a bit more than if I had been
                        born first. Any girl in the family owes you as much for life as I do; it is
                        up to the others to pay back in service, after they are of age, if it is to
                        me. I have done my share. If Father were not the richest farmer in the
                        county, and one of the richest men, it would be different. He can afford to
                        hire help for you, quite as well as he can for himself."
                    "Hire help! Who would I get to do the work here?"
                    "You'd have to double your assistants. You could not hire
                        two women who would come here and do so much work as I do in a day. That is
                        why I decline to give up teaching, and stay here to slave at your option,
                        for gingham dresses and cowhide shoes, of your selection. If I were a boy,
                        I'd work three years more and then I would be given two hundred
                        acres of land, have a house and barn built for me, and a start of stock
                        given me, as every boy in this family has had at twenty-one."
                    "A man is a man! He founds a family, he runs the Government! It is a
                        different matter," said Mrs. Bates.
                    "It surely is; in this family. But I think, even with us, a man
                        would have rather a difficult proposition on his hands to found a family
                        without a woman; or to run the Government either."
                    
                    "All right! Go on to Adam and see what you get."
                    "I'll have the satisfaction of knowing that Nancy Ellen
                        gets dinner, anyway," said Kate as she passed through the door and
                        followed the long path to the gate, from there walking beside the road in
                        the direction of her brother's home. There were many horses in the
                        pasture and single and double buggies in the barn; but it never occurred to
                        Kate that she might ride: it was Sunday and the horses were resting. So she
                        followed the path beside the fences, rounded the corner of the church and
                        went on her way with the text from which the pastor was preaching, hammering
                        in her brain. She became so absorbed in thought that she scarcely saw the
                        footpath she followed, while June flowered, and perfumed, and sang all
                        around her.
                    She was so intent upon the words she had heard that her feet unconsciously
                        followed a well-defined branch from the main path leading into the woods,
                        from the bridge, where she sat on a log, and for the unnumbered time,
                        reviewed her problem. She had worked ever since she could remember. Never in
                        her life had she gotten to school before noon on Monday, because of the
                        large washings. After the other work was finished she had spent nights and
                        mornings ironing, when she longed to study, seldom finishing before
                        Saturday. Summer brought an endless round of harvesting, canning, drying;
                        winter brought butchering, heaps of sewing, and postponed summer work.
                        School began late in the fall and closed early in spring, with teachers
                        often inefficient; yet because she was a close 
                        student and kept her books where she could take a peep and memorize and
                        think as she washed dishes and cooked, she had thoroughly mastered all the
                        country school near her home could teach her. With six weeks of a summer
                        Normal course she would be as well prepared to teach as any of her sisters
                        were, with the exception of Mary, who had been able to convince her parents
                        that she possessed two college years' worth of
                        "ability."
                    Kate laid no claim to "ability," herself; but she knew she
                        was as strong as most men, had an ordinary brain that could be trained, and
                        while she was far from beautiful she was equally as far from being ugly, for
                        her skin was smooth and pink, her eyes large and blue-gray, her teeth even
                        and white. She missed beauty because her cheekbones were high, her mouth
                        large, her nose barely escaping a pug; but she had a real "crown of
                        glory" in her hair, which was silken fine, long and heavy, of
                        sunshinegold in colour, curling naturally around her face and neck. Given
                        pure blood to paint such a skin with varying emotions, enough wind to ravel
                        out a few locks of such hair, the proportions of a Venus and perfect health,
                        any girl could rest very well assured of being looked at twice, if not
                        oftener.
                    Kate sat on a log, a most unusual occurrence for her, for she was familiar
                        only with bare, hot houses, furnished with meagre necessities; reeking
                        stables, barnyards and vegetable gardens. She knew less of the woods than
                        the average city girl; but there was a soothing wind, a sweet perfume, a
                        calming silence that quieted her tense mood  and
                        enabled her to think clearly; so the review went on over years of work and
                        petty economies, amounting to one grand aggregate that gave to each of seven
                        sons house, stock, and land at twenty-one; and to each of nine daughters a
                        bolt of muslin and a fairly decent dress when she married, as the seven
                        older ones did speedily, for they were fine, large, upstanding girls, some
                        having real beauty, all exceptionally well-trained economists and workers.
                        Because her mother had the younger daughters to help in the absence of the
                        elder, each girl had been allowed the time and the money to prepare herself
                        to teach a country school; all of them had taught until they married. Nancy
                        Ellen, the beauty of the family, the girl next older than Kate, had taken
                        the home school for the second winter. Going to school to Nancy Ellen had
                        been the greatest trial of Kate's life, until the possibility of
                        not going to Normal had confronted her.
                    Nancy Ellen was almost as large as Kate, quite as pink, her features
                        assembled in a manner that made all the difference, her jet-black hair as
                        curly as Kate's, her eyes big and dark, her lips red. As for
                        looking at Kate twice, no one ever looked at her at all if Nancy Ellen
                        happened to be walking beside her. Kate bore that without protest; it would
                        have wounded her pride to rebel openly; she did Nancy Ellen's share
                        of the work to allow her to study and have her Normal course; she remained
                        at home plainly clothed to loan Nancy Ellen her best dress when she attended
                        Normal; but when she found that she was doomed to finish her last year at
                        school under Nancy  Ellen, to work double so
                        that her sister might go to school early and remain late, coming home tired
                        and with lessons to prepare for the morrow some of the spontaneity left
                        Kate's efforts.
                    She had a worse grievance when Nancy Ellen hung several new dresses and a
                        wrapper on her side of the closet after her first pay-day, and furnished her
                        end of the bureau with a white hair brush and a brass box filled with pink
                        powder, with a swan's-down puff for its application. For three
                        months Kate had waited and hoped that at least "thank you"
                        would be vouchsafed her; when it failed for that length of time she did two
                        things: she studied so diligently that her father called her into the barn
                        and told her that if before the school, she asked Nancy Ellen another
                        question she could not answer, he would use the buggy whip on her to within
                        an inch of her life. The buggy whip always had been a familiar implement to
                        Kate, so she stopped asking slippery questions, worked harder than ever, and
                        spent her spare time planning what she would hang in the closet and put on
                        her end of the bureau when she had finished her Normal course, and was
                        teaching her first term of school.
                    Now she had learned all that Nancy Ellen could teach her, and much that Nancy
                        Ellen never knew: it was time for Kate to be starting away to school.
                        Because it was so self-evident that she should have what the others had had,
                        she said nothing about it until the time came; then she found her father
                        determined that she should remain at home to do the housework, for no
                        compensation other  than her board and such
                        clothes as she always had worn, her mother wholly in accord with him, and
                        marvel of all, Nancy Ellen quite enthusiastic on the subject.
                    Her father always had driven himself and his family like slaves, while her
                        mother had ably seconded his efforts. Money from the sale of chickens,
                        turkeys, butter, eggs, and garden truck that other women of the
                        neighbourhood used for extra clothing for themselves and their daughters and
                        to prettify their homes, Mrs. Bates handed to her husband to increase the
                        amount necessary to purchase the two hundred acres of land for each son when
                        he came of age. The youngest son had farmed his land with comfortable profit
                        and started a bank account, while his parents and two sisters were still
                        saving and working to finish the last payment. Kate thought with bitterness
                        that if this final payment had been made possibly there would have been
                        money to spare for her; but with that thought came the knowledge that her
                        father had numerous investments on which he could have realized and made the
                        payments had he not preferred that they should be a burden on his family.
                    "Take the wings of morning," repeated Kate, with all the
                        emphasis the old minister had used. "Hummm! I wonder what kind of
                        wings. Those of a peewee would scarcely do for me; I'd need the
                        wings of an eagle to get me anywhere, and anyway it wasn't the
                        wings of a bird I was to take, it was the wings of morning. I wonder what
                        the wings of morning are, and how I go about taking them. God knows where my
                        wings come in; by the ache in my  feet I seem
                        to have walked, mostly. Oh, what are the wings of
                        morning?"
                    Kate stared straight before her, sitting absorbed and motionless. Close in
                        front of her a little white moth fluttered over the twigs and grasses. A
                        kingbird sailed into view and perched on a brush-heap preparatory to darting
                        after the moth. While the bird measured the distance and waited for the moth
                        to rise above the entangling grasses, with a sweep and a snap a smaller
                        bird, very similar in shape and colouring, flashed down, catching the moth
                        and flying high among the branches of a big tree.
                    "Aha! You missed your opportunity!" said Kate to the
                        kingbird.
                    She sat straighter suddenly. "Opportunity," she repeated.
                        "Here is where I am threatened with missing mine. Opportunity! I
                        wonder now if that might not be another name for 'the wings of
                        morning.' Morning is winging its way past me, the question is: do I
                        sit still and let it pass, or do I take its wings and fly away?"
                    Kate brooded on that awhile, then her thought formulated into words again.
                    "It isn't as if Mother were sick or poor, she is perfectly
                        well and stronger than nine women out of ten of her age; Father can afford
                        to hire all the help she needs; there is nothing cruel or unkind in leaving
                        her; and as for Nancy Ellen, why does the fact that I am a few years younger
                        than she, make me her servant? Why do I cook 
                        for her, and make her bed, and wash her clothes, while she earns money to
                        spend on herself? And she is doing everything in her power to keep me at it,
                        because she likes what she is doing and what it brings her, and she
                        doesn't give a tinker whether I like what I am doing or not; or
                        whether I get anything I want out of it or not; or whether I miss getting
                        off to Normal on time or not. She is blame selfish, that's what she
                        is, so she won't like the jolt she's going to get; but it
                        will benefit her soul, her soul that her pretty face keeps her from
                        developing, so I shall give her a little valuable assistance. Mother will be
                        furious and Father will have the buggy whip convenient; but I am going! I
                        don't know how, or when, but I am going.
                    
                    
                        "Who has a thirst for knowledge, in Helicon may slake it,
                        If he has still, the Roman will, to find a way, or make
                            it."
                    
                    Kate arose tall and straight and addressed the surrounding woods.
                        "Now you just watch me 'find a way or make
                        it,'" she said. "I am 'taking the wings
                        of morning,' observe my flight! See me cut curves and circles and
                        sail and soar around all the other Bates girls the Lord ever made, one named
                        Nancy Ellen in particular. It must be far past noon, and I've much
                        to do to get ready. I fly!"
                    Kate walked back to the highway, but instead of going on she turned toward
                        home. When she reached the gate she saw Nancy Ellen, dressed her prettiest,
                        sitting beneath a cherry tree reading a book, in very plain view from the
                             road. As Kate came up the path:
                        "Hello!" said Nancy Ellen. "Wasn't Adam
                        at home?"
                    "I don't know," answered Kate. "I was not
                        there."
                    "You weren't? Why, where were you?" asked Nancy
                        Ellen.
                    "Oh, I just took a walk!" answered Kate.
                    "Right at dinner time on Sunday? Well, I'll be
                        switched!" cried Nancy Ellen.
                    "Pity you weren't oftener, when you most needed
                        it," said Kate, passing up the walk and entering the door. Her
                        mother asked the same questions so Kate answered them.
                    "Well, I am glad you came home," said Mrs. Bates.
                        "There was no use tagging to Adam with a sorry story, when your
                        father said flatly that you couldn't go."
                    "But I must go!" urged Kate. "I have as good a
                        right to my chance as the others. If you put your foot down and say so,
                        Mother, Father will let me go. Why shouldn't I have the same chance
                        as Nancy Ellen? Please Mother, let me go!"
                    "You stay right where you are. There is an awful summer's
                        work before us," said Mrs. Bates.
                    "There always is," answered Kate. "But now is just
                        my chance while you have Nancy Ellen here to help you."
                    "She has some special studying to do, and you very well know that
                        she has to attend the County Institute, and take the summer course of
                        training for teachers."
                    "So do I," said Kate, stubbornly. "You really will
                        not help me, Mother?"
                    
                    "I've said my say! Your place is here! Here you
                        stay!" answered her mother.
                    "All right," said Kate, "I'll cross you
                        off the docket of my hopes, and try Father."
                    "Well I warn you, you had better not! He has been nagged until his
                        patience is lost," said Mrs. Bates.
                    Kate closed her lips and started in search of her father. She found him
                        leaning on the pig pen watching pigs grow into money, one of his most
                        favoured occupations. He scowled at her, drawing his huge frame to full
                        height.
                    "I don't want to hear a word you have to say," he
                        said. "You are the youngest, and your place is in the kitchen
                        helping your mother. We have got the last installment to pay on
                        Hiram's land this summer. March back to the house and busy yourself
                        with something useful!"
                    Kate looked at him, from his big-boned, weather-beaten face, to his heavy
                        shoes, then turned without a word and went back toward the house. She went
                        around it to the cherry tree and with no preliminaries said to her sister.
                        "Nancy Ellen, I want you to lend-
                         money to fix my clothes a little and pay my way to Normal this
                        summer. I can pay it all back this winter. I'll pay every cent with
                        interest, before I spend any on anything else."
                    "Why, you must be crazy!" said Nancy Ellen.
                    "Would I be any crazier than you, when you wanted to go?"
                        asked Kate.
                    "But you were here to help Mother," said Nancy Ellen.
                    
                    "And you are here to help her now," persisted Kate.
                    "But I've got to fix up my clothes for the County
                        Institute," said Nancy Ellen, "I'll be gone most
                        of the summer."
                    "I have just as much right to go as you had," said Kate.
                    "Father and Mother both say you shall not go," answered her
                        sister.
                    "I suppose there is no use to remind you that I did all in my power
                        to help you to your chance."
                    "You did no more than you should have done," said Nancy
                        Ellen.
                    "And this is no more than you should do for me, in the
                        circumstances," said Kate.
                    "You very well know I can't! Father and Mother would turn
                        me out of the house," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "I'd be only too glad if they would turn me out,"
                        said Kate. "You can let me have the money if you like. Mother
                         do anything but talk; and Father  strike you, or make
                        you go, he always favours you."
                    "He does nothing of the sort! I can't, and I
                        won't, so there!" cried Nancy Ellen.
                    "'Won't,'" is the real answer,
                        'so there,'" said Kate.
                    She went into the cellar and ate some cold food from the cupboard and drank a
                        cup of milk. Then she went to her room and looked over all her scanty stock
                        of clothing, laying in a heap the pieces that needed mending. She took the
                        clothes basket to the wash room, which  was the
                        front of the woodhouse, in summer; built a fire, heated water, and while
                        making it appear that she was putting the clothes to soak, as usual, she
                        washed everything she had that was fit to use, hanging the pieces to dry in
                        the building.
                    "Watch me fly!" muttered Kate. "I don't
                        seem to be cutting those curves so very fast; but I'm moving. I
                        believe now, having exhausted all home resources, that Adam is my next
                        objective. He is the only one in the family who ever paid the slightest
                        attention to me, maybe he cares a trifle what becomes of me, but Oh, how I
                        dread Agatha! However, watch me take wing! If Adam fails me I have six
                        remaining prospects among my loving brothers, and if none of them has any
                        feeling for me or faith in me there yet remain my seven dear
                        brothers-in-law, before I appeal to the tender mercies of the neighbours;
                        but how I dread Agatha! Yet I fly!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    AN EMBRYO MIND READER
                    
                    
                        KATE was far from physical flight as she pounded the
                        indignation of her soul into the path with her substantial feet. Baffled and
                        angry, she kept reviewing the situation as she went swiftly on her way,
                        regardless of dust and heat. She could see no justice in being forced into a
                        position that promised to end in further humiliation and defeat of her
                        hopes. If she only could find Adam at the stable, as she passed, and talk
                        with him alone! Secretly, she well knew that the chief source of her dread
                        of meeting her sister-in-law was that to her Agatha was so funny that
                        ridiculing her had been regarded as perfectly legitimate pastime. For Agatha
                            was funny; but she had no idea of it, and could no
                        more avoid it than a bee could avoid being buzzy, so the manner in which her
                        sisters-in-law imitated her and laughed at her, none too secretly, was far
                        from kind. While she never guessed what was going on, she realized the
                        antagonism in their attitude and stoutly resented it.
                    Adam was his father's favourite son, a stalwart, fine-appearing, big
                        man, silent, honest, and forceful; the son most after the desires of the
                        father's heart, yet Adam  was the one
                        son of the seven who had ignored his father's law that all of his
                        boys were to marry strong, healthy young women, poor women, working women.
                        Each of the others at coming of age had contracted this prescribed marriage
                        as speedily as possible, first asking father Bates, the girl afterward. If
                        father Bates disapproved, the girl was never asked at all. And the reason
                        for this docility on the part of these big, matured men, lay wholly in the
                        methods of father Bates. He gave those two hundred acres of land to each of
                        them on coming of age, and the same sum to each for the building of a house
                        and barn and the purchase of stock; gave it to them in words, and with the
                        fullest assurance that it was theirs to improve, to live on, to add to. Each
                        of them had seen and handled his deed, each had to admit he never had known
                        his father to tell a lie or deviate the least from fairness in a deal of any
                        kind, each had been compelled to go in the way indicated by his father for
                        years; but not a man of them held his own deed. These precious bits of paper
                        remained locked in the big wooden chest beside the father's bed,
                        while the land stood on the records in his name; the taxes they paid him
                        each year he, himself, carried to the county clerk; so that he was the
                        largest landholder in the county and one of the very richest men. It must
                        have been extreme unction to his soul to enter the county office and ask for
                        the assessment on those "little parcels of land of mine."
                        Men treated him very deferentially, and so did his sons. Those documents
                        carefully locked away had the effect of obtaining ever-ready help to harvest
                             his hay and wheat whenever he desired, to
                        make his least wish quickly deferred to, to give him authority and the power
                        for which he lived and worked earlier, later, and harder than any other man
                        of his day and locality.
                    Adam was like him as possible up to the time he married, yet Adam was the
                        only one of his sons who disobeyed him; but there was a redeeming feature.
                        Adam married a slender tall slip of a woman, four years his senior, who had
                        been teaching in the Hartley schools when he began courting her. She was a
                        prim, fussy woman, born of a prim father and a fussy mother, so what was to
                        be expected? Her face was narrow and set, her body and her movements almost
                        rigid, her hair, always parted, lifted from each side and tied on the crown,
                        fell in stiff little curls, the back part hanging free. Her speech, as
                        precise as her movements, was formed into set habit through long study of
                        the dictionary. She was born antagonistic to whatever existed, no matter
                        what it was. So surely as every other woman agreed on a dress, a recipe, a
                        house, anything whatever, so surely Agatha thought out and followed a
                        different method, the disconcerting thing about her being that she usually
                        finished any undertaking with less exertion, ahead of time, and having saved
                        considerable money.
                    She could have written a fine book of synonyms, for as certainly as any one
                        said anything in her presence that she had occasion to repeat, she changed
                        the wording to six-syllabled mouthfuls, delivered with ponderous
                        circumlocution. She subscribed to papers and magazines,  which she read and remembered. And she danced! When other women
                        thought even a waltz immoral and shocking; perfectly stiff, her curls
                        exactly in place, Agatha could be seen, and frequently was seen, waltzing on
                        the front porch in the arms of, and to a tune whistled by young Adam, whose
                        full name was Adam Alcibiades Bates. In his younger days, when discipline
                        had been required, Kate once had heard her say to the little fellow:
                        "Adam Alcibiades ascend these steps and proceed immediately to your
                        maternal ancestor."
                    Kate thought of this with a dry smile as she plodded on toward
                        Agatha's home hoping she could see her brother at the barn, but she
                        knew that most probably she would "ascend the steps and proceed to
                        the maternal ancestor," of Adam Bates 3d. Then she would be forced
                        to explain her visit and combat both Adam and his wife; for Agatha was not a
                        nonentity like her collection of healthful, hardworking sisters-in-law.
                        Agatha worked if she chose, and she did not work if she did not choose.
                        Mostly she worked and worked harder than any one ever thought. She had a
                        habit of keeping her house always immaculate, finishing her cleaning very
                        early and then reading in a conspicuous spot on the veranda when other women
                        were busy with their most tiresome tasks. Such was Agatha, whom Kate dreaded
                        meeting, with every reason, for Agatha, despite curls, bony structure,
                        language, and dance, was the most powerful factor in the whole Bates family
                        with her father-in-law; and all because when he purchased the original two
                        hundred acres  for Adam, and made the first
                        allowance for buildings and stock, Agatha slipped the money from
                        Adam's fingers in some inexplainable way, and spent it all for
                        stock; because forsooth! Agatha was an only child, and her prim father
                        endowed her, she said so herself, with three hundred acres of land, better
                        in location and more fertile than that given to Adam, land having on it a
                        roomy and comfortable brick house, completely furnished, a large barn and
                        also stock; so that her place could be used to live on and farm, while
                        Adam's could be given over to grazing herds of cattle which he
                        bought cheaply, fattened and sold at the top of the market.
                    If each had brought such a farm into the family with her, father Bates could
                        have endured six more prim, angular, becurled daughters-in-law, very well
                        indeed, for land was his one and only God. His respect for Agatha was
                        markedly very high, for in addition to her farm he secretly admired her
                        independence of thought and action, and was amazed by the fact that she was
                        about her work when several of the blooming girls he had selected for wives
                        for his sons were confined to the sofa with a pain, while not one of them
                        schemed, planned, connived with her husband and piled up the money as Agatha
                        did, therefore she stood at the head of the women of the Bates family; while
                        she was considered to have worked miracles in the heart of Adam Bates, for
                        with his exception no man of the family ever had been seen to touch a woman,
                        either publicly or privately, to offer the slightest form of endearment,
                        assistance or courtesy. "Women are to work and to bear  children," said the elder Bates.
                        "Put them at the first job when they are born, and at the second at
                        eighteen, and keep them hard at it."
                    At their rate of progression several of the Bates sons and daughters would
                        produce families that, with a couple of pairs of twins, would equal the
                        sixteen of the elder Bates; but not so Agatha. She had one son of fifteen
                        and one daughter of ten, and she said that was all she intended to have,
                        certainly it was all she did have; but she further aggravated matters by
                        announcing that she had had them because she wanted them; at such times as
                        she intended to; and that she had the boy first and five years the older, so
                        that he could look after his sister when they went into company. Also she
                        walked up and sat upon Adam's lap whenever she chose, ruffled his
                        hair, pulled his ears, and kissed him squarely on the mouth, with every
                        appearance of having help, while the dance on the front porch with her son
                        or daughter was of daily occurrence. And anything funnier than Agatha, prim
                        and angular with never a hair out of place, stiffly hopping "Money
                        Musk" and "Turkey In The Straw," or the
                        "Blue Danube" waltz, anything funnier than that, never
                        happened. But the two Adams, Jr. and 3d, watched with reverent and adoring
                        eyes, for she was Mother, and no one else on earth rested
                        so high in their respect as the inflexible woman they lived with. That she
                        was different from all the other women of her time and location was hard on
                        the other women. Had they been exactly right, they would have been exactly
                        like her.
                    
                    So Kate, thinking all these things over, her own problem acutely
                        "advanced and proceeded." She advanced past the closed
                        barn, and stock in the pasture, past the garden flaming June, past the
                        dooryard, up the steps, down the hall, into the screened back porch dining
                        room and "proceeded" to take a chair, while the family
                        finished the Sunday night supper, at which they were seated. Kate was not
                        hungry and she did not wish to trouble her sister-in-law to set another
                        place, so she took the remaining chair, against the wall, behind Agatha,
                        facing Adam, 3d, across the table, and with Adam, Jr., in profile at the
                        head, and little Susan at the foot. Then she waited her chance. Being tired
                        and aggressive she did not wait long.
                    "I might as well tell you why I came," she said bluntly,
                        "Father won't give me money to go to Normal, as he has all
                        the others. He says I have got to stay at home and help Mother."
                    "Well, Mother is getting so old she needs help," said Adam,
                        Jr., as he continued his supper.
                    "Of course she is," said Kate. "We all know that.
                        But what is the matter with Nancy Ellen helping her, while I take my turn at
                        Normal? There wasn't a thing I could do last summer to help her off
                        that I didn't do, even to lending her my best dress and staying at
                        home for six Sundays because I had nothing else fit to wear where
                        I'd be seen."
                    No one said a word. Kate continued:
                    "Then Father secured our home school for her and I  had to spend the winter going to school to
                        her, when you very well know that I always studied harder, and was ahead of
                        her, even after she'd been to Normal. And I got up early and worked
                        late, and cooked, and washed, and waited on her, while she got her lessons
                        and reports ready, and fixed up her nice new clothes, and now she
                        won't touch the work, and she is doing all she can to help Father
                        keep me from going."
                    "I never knew Father to need much help on anything he made up his
                        mind to," said Adam.
                    Kate sat very tense. She looked steadily at her brother, but he looked quite
                        as steadily at his plate. The back of her sister-in-law was fully as
                        expressive as her face. Her head was very erect, her shoulders stiff and
                        still, not a curl moved as she poured Adam's tea and
                        Susan's milk. Only Adam, 3d, looked at Kate with companionable
                        eyes, as if he might feel a slight degree of interest or sympathy, so she
                        found herself explaining directly to him.
                    "Things are blame unfair in our family, anyway!" she said,
                        bitterly. "You have got to be born a boy to have any chance worth
                        while; if you are a girl it is mighty small, and if you are the youngest, by
                        any mischance, you have none at all. I don't want to harp things
                        over; but I wish you would explain to me why having been born a few years
                        after Nancy Ellen makes me her slave, and cuts me out of my chance to teach,
                        and to have some freedom and clothes. They might as well have told Hiram he
                        was not to have any land and stay at home  and
                        help Father because he was the youngest boy; it would have been quite as
                        fair; but nothing like that happens to the boys of this family, it is always
                        the girls who get left. I have worked for years, knowing every cent I saved
                        and earned above barely enough to cover me, would go to help pay for
                        Hiram's land and house and stock; but he wouldn't turn a
                        hand to help me, neither will any of the rest of you."
                    "Then what are you here for?" asked Adam.
                    "Because I am going to give you, and every other brother and sister
                        I have, the chance to refuse to loan me enough to buy a
                        few clothes and pay my way to Normal, so I can pass the examinations, and
                        teach this fall. And when you have all refused, I am going to the
                        neighbours, until I find someone who will loan me the money I need. A
                        hundred dollars would be plenty. I could pay it back with two
                        months' teaching, with any interest you pay."
                    Kate paused, short of breath, her eyes blazing, her cheeks red. Adam went
                        steadily on with his supper. Agatha appeared stiffer and more uncompromising
                        in the back than before, which Kate had not thought possible. But the same
                        dull red on the girl's cheeks had begun to burn on the face of
                        young Adam. Suddenly he broke into a clear laugh.
                    "Oh, Ma, you're too funny!" he cried. "I
                        can read your face like a book. I bet you ten dollars I can tell you just
                        word for word what you are going to say. I dare you to let me! You know I
                        can!"  Still laughing, his eyes
                        dancing, a picture to see, he stretched his arm across the table toward her,
                        and his mother adored him, however she strove to conceal the fact from him.
                    "Ten dollars!" she scoffed. "When did we become so
                        wealthy? I'll give you one dollar if you tell me exactly what I was
                        going to say."
                    The boy glanced at his father. "Oh this is too easy!" he
                        cried. "It's like robbing the baby's
                        bank!" And then to his mother: "You were just opening your
                        lips to say: 'Give it to her! If you don't, I
                        will!' And you are even a little bit more of a brick than usual to
                        do it. It's a darned shame the way all of them impose on
                        Kate."
                    There was a complete change in Agatha's back. Adam, Jr., laid down
                        his fork and stared at his wife in deep amazement. Adam, 3d, stretched his
                        hand farther toward his mother. "Give me that dollar!" he
                        cajoled.
                    "Well, I am not concealing it in the sleeve of my
                        garments," she said. "If I have one, it is reposing in my
                        purse, in juxtaposition to the other articles that belong there, and if you
                        receive it, it will be bestowed upon you when I deem the occasion
                        suitable."
                    Young Adam's fist came down with a smash. "I get the
                        dollar!" he triumphed. "I told you so! I
                            knew she was going to say it! Ain't I a dandy
                        mind reader though? But it is bully for you, Father, because of course, if
                        Mother wouldn't let Kate have it, you'd have to; but if you did it might make trouble with
                        your paternal land-grabber, and endanger your precious deed that you hope
                             to get in the sweet by-and-by. But if
                        Mother loans the money, Grandfather can't say a word, because it is
                        her very own, and didn't cost him anything, and he always agrees
                        with her anyway! Hurrah for hurrah, Kate! Nancy Ellen may wash her own
                        petticoat in the morning, while I take you to the train. You'll let
                        me, Father? You did let me go to Hartley alone, once. I'll be
                        careful! I won't let a thing happen. I'll come straight
                        home. And oh, my dollar, you and me; I'll put you in the bank and
                        let you grow to three!"
                    "You may go," said his father, promptly.
                    "You shall proceed according to your Aunt Katherine's
                        instructions," said his mother, at the same time.
                    "Katie, get your carpet-sack! When do we start?" demanded
                        young Adam.
                    "Morning will be all right with me, you blessed youngun,"
                        said Kate, "but I don't own a telescope or anything to put
                        what little I have in, and Nancy Ellen never would spare hers; she will want
                        to go to County Institute before I get back."
                    "You may have mine," said Agatha. "You are
                        perfectly welcome to take it wherever your peregrinations lead you, and
                        return it when you please. I shall proceed to my chamber and formulate your
                        check immediately. You are also welcome to my best hat and cape, and any of
                        my clothing or personal adornments you can use to advantage."
                    "Oh, Agatha, I wish you were as big as a house, like me,"
                        said Kate, joyfully. "I couldn't possibly crowd  into anything you wear, but it would almost
                        tickie me to death to have Nancy Ellen know you let me take your things,
                        when she won't even offer me a dud of her old stuff; I never
                        remotely hoped for any of the new."
                    "You shall have my cape and hat, anyway. The cape is new and very
                        fashionable. Come upstairs and try the hat," said Agatha.
                    The cape was new and fashionable as Agatha had said; it would not fasten at
                        the neck, but there would be no necessity that it should during July and
                        August, while it would improve any dress it was worn with on a cool evening.
                        The hat Kate could not possibly use with her large, broad face and mass of
                        hair, but she was almost as pleased with the offer as if the hat had been
                        most becoming. Then Agatha brought out her telescope, in which Kate laid the
                        cape while Agatha wrote her a check for one hundred and twenty dollars, and
                        told her where and how to cash it. The extra twenty was to buy a pair of new
                        walking shoes, some hose, and a hat, before she went to her train. When they
                        went downstairs Adam, Jr., had a horse hitched and Adam, 3d, drove her to
                        her home, where, at the foot of the garden, they took one long survey of the
                        landscape and hid the telescope behind the privet bush. Then Adam drove away
                        quietly, Kate entered the dooryard from the garden, and soon afterward went
                        to the wash room and hastily ironed her clothing.
                    Nancy Ellen had gone to visit a neighbour girl, so Kate risked her remaining
                        until after church in the evening. She hurried to their room and mended all
                             her own clothing she had laid out. Then
                        she deliberately went over Nancy Ellen's and helped herself to a
                        pair of pretty nightdresses, such as she had never owned, a white
                        embroidered petticoat, the second best white dress, and a most becoming
                        sailor hat. These she made into a parcel and carried to the wash room,
                        brought in the telescope and packed it, hiding it under a workbench and
                        covering it with shavings. After that she went to her room and wrote a note,
                        and then slept deeply until the morning call. She arose at once and went to
                        the wash room but instead of washing the family clothing, she took a bath in
                        the largest tub, and washed her hair to a state resembling spun gold. During
                        breakfast she kept sharp watch down the road. When she saw Adam, 3d, coming
                        she stuck her note under the hook on which she had seen her father hang his
                        hat all her life, and carrying the telescope in the clothes basket covered
                        with a rumpled sheet, she passed across the yard and handed it over the
                        fence to Adam, climbed that same fence, and they started toward Hartley.
                    Kate put the sailor hat on her head, and sat very straight, an anxious line
                        crossing her forehead. She was running away, and if discovered, there was
                        the barest chance that her father might follow, and make a most disagreeable
                        scene, before the train pulled out. He had gone to a far field to plow corn
                        and Kate fervently hoped he would plow until noon, which he did. Nancy Ellen
                        washed the dishes, and went into the front room to study, while Mrs. Bates
                        put on her sunbonnet and began hoeing  the
                        potatoes. Not one of the family noticed that Monday's wash was not
                        on the clothes line as usual. Kate and Adam drove as fast as they dared, and
                        on reaching town, cashed the check, decided that Nancy Ellen's hat
                        would serve, thus saving the price of a new one for emergencies that might
                        arise, bought the shoes, and went to the depot, where they had an anxious
                        hour to wait.
                    "I expect Grandpa will be pretty mad," said Adam.
                    "I am sure there is not the slightest chance but that he will
                        be," said Kate.
                    "Dare you go back home when school is over?" he asked.
                    "Probably not," she answered.
                    "What will you do?" he questioned.
                    "When I investigated sister Nancy Ellen's bureau I found a
                        list of the School Supervisors of the county, so I am going to put in my
                        spare time writing them about my qualifications to teach their schools this
                        winter. All the other girls did well and taught first-class schools, I shall
                        also. I am not a bit afraid but that I may take my choice of several. When I
                        finish it will be only a few days until school begins, so I can go hunt my
                        boarding place and stay there."
                    "Mother would let you stay at our house," said Adam.
                    "Yes, I think she would, after yesterday; but I don't want
                        to make trouble that might extend to Father and your father. I had better
                        keep away."
                    "Yes, I guess you had," said Adam. "If Grandfather
                        rows, he raises a racket. But maybe he won't!"
                    
                    "Maybe! Wouldn't you like to see what happens when Mother
                        comes in from the potatoes and Nancy Ellen comes out from the living room,
                        and Father comes to dinner, all about the same time?"
                    Adam laughed appreciatively.
                    "Wouldn't I just!" he cried. "Kate, you
                        like my mother, don't you?"
                    "I certainly do! She has been splendid. I never dreamed of such a
                        thing as getting the money from her."
                    "I didn't either," said Adam, "untilI
                        became a mind reader."
                    Kate looked straight into his eyes.
                    "How about that, Adam?" she asked.
                    Adam chuckled. "She didn't intend to say a word. She was
                        going to let the Bateses fight it out among themselves. Her mouth was shut
                        so tight it didn't look as if she could open it if she wanted to. I
                        thought it would be better for you to borrow the money from her, so Father
                        wouldn't get into a mess, and I knew how fine she was, so I just
                            suggested it to her. That's all!"
                    "Adam, you're a dandy!" cried Kate.
                    "I am having a whole buggy load of fun, and you ought to
                        go," said he. "It's all right! Don't you
                        worry! I'll take care of you."
                    "Why, thank you, Adam!" said Kate. "That is the
                        first time any one ever offered to take care of me in my life. With me it
                        always has been pretty much of a 'go-it alone'
                        proposition."
                    "What of Nancy Ellen's did you take?" he asked.
                             "Why didn't you get some
                        gloves? Your hands are  red and work-worn. Mother's never
                        look that way."
                    "Your mother never has done the rough field work I do, and I
                        haven't taken time to be careful. They do look badly. I wish I had
                        taken a pair of the lady's gloves; but I doubt if she would have
                        survived that. I understand that one of the unpardonable sins is putting on
                        gloves belonging to any one else."
                    Then the train came and Kate climbed aboard with Adam's parting
                        injunction in her ears: "Sit beside an open window on this
                        side!"
                    So she looked for and found the window and as she seated herself she saw Adam
                        on the outside and leaned to speak to him again. Just as the train started
                        he thrust his hand inside, dropped his dollar in her lap, and in a tense
                        whisper commanded her: "Get yourself some gloves!" Then he
                        ran.
                    Kate picked up the dollar, while her eyes dimmed with tears.
                    "Why, the fine youngster!" she said. "The
                        Jim-dandy fine youngster!"
                    Adam could not remember when he ever had been so happy as he was driving
                        home. He found his mother singing, his father in a genial mood, so he
                        concluded that the greatest thing in the world to make a whole family happy
                        was to do something kind for someone else. But he reflected that there would
                        be far from a happy family at his grandfather's; and he was right.
                        Grand-mother Bates came in from her hoeing at eleven o'clock  tired and hungry, expecting to find the wash
                        dry and dinner almost ready. There was no wash and no odour of food. She
                        went to the wood-shed and stared unbelievingly at the cold stove, the tubs
                        of soaking clothes.
                    She turned and went into the kitchen, where she saw no signs of Kate or of
                        dinner, then she lifted up her voice and shouted: "Nancy
                        Ellen!"
                    Nancy Ellen came in a hurry. "Why, Mother, what is the
                        matter?" she cried.
                    "Matter, yourself!" exclaimed Mrs. Bates. "Look in
                        the wash room! Why aren't the clothes on the line? Where is that
                        good-for-nothing Kate?"
                    Nancy Ellen went to the wash room and looked. She came back pale and amazed.
                        "Maybe she is sick," she ventured. "She never has
                        been; but she might be! Maybe she has lain down."
                    "On Monday morning! And the wash not out! You simpleton!"
                        cried Mrs. Bates.
                    Nancy Ellen hurried upstairs and came back with bulging eyes.
                    "Every scrap of her clothing is gone, and half of mine!"
                    "She's gone to that fool normal-thing! Where did she get
                        the money?" cried Mrs. Bates.
                    "I don't know!" said Nancy Ellen. "She
                        asked me yesterday, but of course I told her that so long as you and Father
                        decided she was not to go, I couldn't possibly lend her the
                        money."
                    "Did you look if she had taken it?"
                    Nancy Ellen straightened.
                    
                    "Mother! I didn't need do that!"
                    "You said she took your clothes," said Mrs. Bates.
                    "I had hers this time last year. She'll bring back
                        clothes."
                    "Not here, she won't! Father will see that she never
                        darkens these doors again. This is the first time in his life that a child
                        of his has disobeyed him."
                    "Except Adam, when he married Agatha; and he strutted like a
                        fighting cock about that."
                    "Well, he won't 'strut' about
                        this,' and you won't either, even if you are showing signs
                        of standing up for her. Go at that wash, while I get dinner."
                    Dinner was on the table when Adam Bates hung his hat on its hook and saw the
                        note for him. He took it down and read: 
                            
                                
                                    FATHER: I have gone to Normal. I borrowed
                                        the money of a woman who was willing to trust me to pay it
                                        back as soon as I earned it. Not Nancy Ellen, of course. She
                                        would not even loan me a pocket handkerchief, though you
                                        remember I stayed at home six weeks last summer to let her
                                        take what she wanted of mine. Mother: I think you can get
                                        Sally Whistler to help you as cheaply as any one and that
                                        she will do very well. Nancy Ellen: I have taken your second
                                        best hat and a few of your things, but not half so many as I
                                        loaned you. I hope it makes you mad enough to burst. I hope
                                        you get as mad and stay as mad as I have been most of this
                                        year while you taught me things you didn't know
                                        yourself; and I cooked and washed for you so you could wear
                                        fine clothes and play the lady.
                                    
                                        KATE.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Adam Bates read that note to himself, stretching every inch of his six feet
                        six, his face a dull red, his eyes glaring. Then he turned to his wife and
                        daughter.
                    
                    "Is Kate gone? Without proper clothing, and on borrowed
                        money," he demanded.
                    "I don't know," said Mrs. Bates. "I was
                        hoeing potatoes all forenoon."
                    "Listen to this," he thundered. Then he slowly read the
                        note aloud. But someway the spoken words did not have the same effect as
                        when he read them mentally in the first shock of anger. When he heard his
                        own voice read off the line, "I hope it makes you mad enough to
                        burst," there was a catch and a queer gurgle in his throat. Mrs.
                        Bates gazed at him anxiously. Was he so surprised and angry he was choking?
                        Might it be a stroke? It was! It was a master stroke. He got no farther than
                        "taught me things you didn't know yourself," when
                        he lowered the sheet, threw back his head and laughed as, none of his family
                        ever had seen him laugh in his life; laughed and laughed until his frame was
                        shaken and the tears rolled. Finally he looked at the dazed Nancy Ellen.
                        "Get Sally Whistler, nothing!" he said. "You
                        hustle your stumps and do for your mother what Kate did while you were away
                        last summer. And if you have any common decency send your sister as many of
                        your best things as you had of hers, at least. Do you hear me?"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    PEREGRINATIONS
                    
                    
                        PEREGRINATIONS," laughed Kate, turning to the
                        window-to hide her face. "Oh, Agatha, you are a dear, but you are
                        too funny! Even a Fourth of July orator would not have used that word. I
                        never heard it before in all my life outside spelling-school."
                    Then she looked at the dollar she was gripping and ceased to laugh.
                    "The dear lad," she whispered. "He did the whole
                        thing. She was going to let us 'fight it out'; I could
                        tell by her back, and Adam wouldn't have helped me a cent, quite as
                        much because he didn't want to as because Father wouldn't
                        have liked it. Fancy the little chap knowing he can wheedle his mother into
                        anything, and exactly how to go about it! I won't spend a penny on
                        myself until she is paid, and then I'll make her a present of
                        something nice, just to let her and Nancy Ellen see that I appreciate being
                        helped to my chance, for I had reached that point where I would have walked
                        to school and worked in somebody's kitchen, before I'd
                        have missed my opportunity. I could have done it; but this will be far
                        pleasanter and give me a much better showing."
                    Then Kate began watching the people in the car with  eager curiosity, for she had been on a train only twice before
                        in her life. She decided that she was in a company of young people and some
                        even of middle age, going to Normal. She also noticed that most of them were
                        looking at her with probably the same interest she found in them. Then at
                        one of the stations a girl asked to sit with her and explained that she was
                        going to Normal, so Kate said she was also. The girl seemed to have several
                        acquaintances on the car, for she left her seat to speak with them and when
                        the train stopped at a very pleasant city and the car began to empty itself,
                        on the platform Kate was introduced by this girl to several young women and
                        men near her age. A party of four, going to board close the school, with a
                        woman they knew about, invited Kate to go with them and because she was
                        strange and shaken by her experiences she agreed. All of them piled their
                        luggage on a wagon to be delivered, so Kate let hers go also. Then they
                        walked down a long shady street, and entered a dainty and comfortable
                        residence, a place that seemed to Kate to be the home of people of wealth.
                        She was assigned a room with another girl, such a pleasant girl; but a vague
                        uneasiness had begun to make itself felt, so before she unpacked she went
                        back to the sitting room and learned that the price of board was eight
                        dollars a week. Forty-eight dollars for six weeks! She would not have enough
                        for books and tuition. Besides, Nancy Ellen had boarded with a family on
                        Butler Street whose charge was only five-fifty. Kate was eager to stay where
                        these very agreeable young people  did, she
                        imagined herself going to classes with them and having association that to
                        her would be a great treat, but she never would dare ask for more money. She
                        thought swiftly a minute, and then made her first mistake.
                    Instead of going to the other girls and frankly confessing that she could not
                        afford the prices they were paying, she watched her chance, picked up her
                        telescope and hurried down the street, walking swiftly until she was out of
                        sight of the house. Then she began inquiring her way to Butler Street and
                        after a long, hot walk, found the place. The rooms and board were very poor,
                        but Kate felt that she could endure whatever Nancy Ellen had, so she
                        unpacked, and went to the Normal School to register and learn what she would
                        need. On coming from the building she saw that she would be forced to pass
                        close by the group of girls she had deserted and this was made doubly
                        difficult because she could see that they were talking about her. Then she
                        understood how foolish she had been and as she was struggling to summon
                        courage to explain to them she caught these words plainly:
                    "Who is going to ask her for it?"
                    "I am," said the girl who had sat beside Kate on the train.
                        "I don't propose to pay it myself!"
                    Then she came directly to Kate and said briefly: "Fifty cents,
                        please!"
                    "For what?" stammered Kate.
                    "Your luggage. You changed your boarding place in such a hurry you
                        forgot to settle, and as I made the arrangement, I had to pay it."
                    
                    "Do please excuse me," said Kate. "I was so
                        bewildered, I forgot."
                    "Certainly!" said the girl and Kate dropped the money into
                        the extended hand and hurried past, her face scorched red with shame, for
                        one of them had said: "That's a good one! I
                        wouldn't have thought it of her."
                    Kate went back to her hot, stuffy room and tried to study, but she succeeded
                        only in being miserable, for she realized that she had lost her second
                        chance to have either companions or friends, by not saying the few words of
                        explanation that would have righted her in the opinion of those she would
                        meet each day for six weeks. It was not a good beginning, while the end was
                        what might have been expected. A young man from her neighbourhood spoke to
                        her and the girls seeing, asked him about Kate, learning thereby that her
                        father was worth more money than all of theirs put together. Some of them
                        had accepted the explanation that Kate was "bewildered"
                        and had acted hastily; but when the young man finished Bates history, they
                        merely thought her mean, and left her severely to herself, so her only
                        recourse was to study so diligently and recite so perfectly that none of
                        them could equal her, and this she did.
                    In acute discomfort and with a sore heart, Kate passed her first six weeks
                        away from home. She wrote to each man on the list of school directors she
                        had taken from Nancy Ellen's desk. Some answered that they had
                        their teachers already engaged, others made no reply. One bright spot was
                        the receipt of a letter from Nancy  Ellen
                        saying she was sending her best dress, to be very careful of it, and if Kate
                        would let her know the day she would be home she would meet her at the
                        station. Kate sent her thanks, wore the dress to two lectures, and wrote the
                        letter telling when she would return.
                    As the time drew nearer she became sickeningly anxious about a school. What
                        if she failed in securing one? What if she could not pay back
                        Agatha's money? What if she had taken "the wings of
                        morning," and fallen in her flight? In desperation she went to the
                        Superintendent of the Normal and told him her trouble. He wrote her a fine
                        letter of recommendation and she sent it to one of the men from whom she had
                        not heard, the director of a school in the village of Walden, seven miles
                        east of Hartley, being seventeen miles from her home, thus seeming to Kate a
                        desirable location, also she knew the village to be pretty and the school
                        one that paid well. Then she finished her work the best she could, and
                        disappointed and anxious, entered the train for home.
                    When the engine whistled at the bridge outside Hartley Kate arose, lifted her
                        telescope from the rack overhead, and made her way to the door, so that she
                        was the first person to leave the car when it stopped. As she stepped to the
                        platform she had a distinct shock, for her father reached for the telescope,
                        while his greeting and his face were decidedly friendly, for him. As they
                        walked down the street Kate was trying wildly to think of the best thing to
                        say when he asked if she had a school. But he did not ask. Then she saw in
                        the pocket of his light  summer coat a packet
                        of letters folded inside a newspaper, and there was one long,
                        official-looking envelope that stood above the others far enough that she
                        could see "Miss K" of the address. Instantly she decided
                        that it was her answer from the School Director of Walden and she was
                        tremblingly eager to see it. She thought an instant and then asked:
                        "Have you been to the post office?"
                    "Yes, I got the mail," he answered.
                    "Will you please see if there are any letters for me?" she
                        asked.
                    "When we get home," he said. "I am in a hurry now.
                    Here's a list of things Ma wants, and don't be all day
                        about getting them."
                    Kate's lips closed to a thin line and her eyes began to grow steel
                        coloured and big. She dragged back a step and looked at the loosely swaying
                        pocket again. She thought intently a second. As they passed several people
                        on the walk she stepped back of her father and gently raised the letter
                        enough to see that the address was to her. Instantly she lifted it from the
                        others, slipped it up her dress sleeve, and again took her place beside her
                        father until they reached the store where her mother did her shopping. Then
                        he waited outside while Kate hurried in, and ripping open the letter, found
                        a contract ready for her to sign for the Walden school. The salary was
                        twenty dollars a month more than Nancy Ellen had received for their country
                        school the previous winter and the term four months longer.
                    Kate was so delighted she could have shouted. Instead  she went with all speed to the stationery counter and bought an
                        envelope to fit the contract, which she signed, and writing a hasty note of
                        thanks she mailed the letter in the store mail box, then began her
                        mother's purchases. This took so much time that her father came
                        into the store before she had finished, demanding that she hurry, so in
                        feverish haste she bought what was wanted and followed to the buggy. On the
                        road home she began to study her father; she could see that he was well
                        pleased over something but she had no idea what could have happened; she had
                        expected anything from verbal wrath to the buggy whip, so she was surprised,
                        but so happy over having secured such a good school, at higher wages than
                        Nancy Ellen's, that she spent most of her time thinking of herself
                        and planning as to when she would go to Walden, where she would stay, how
                        she would teach, and Oh, bliss unspeakable, what she would do with so much
                        money; for two months' pay would more than wipe out her
                        indebtedness to Agatha, and by getting the very cheapest board she could
                        endure, after that she would have over three fourths of her money to spend
                        each month for books and clothes. She was intently engaged with her side of
                        the closet and her end of the bureau, when she had her first glimpse of
                        home; even preoccupied as she was, she saw a difference. Several loose
                        pickets in the fence had been nailed in place. The lilac beside the door and
                        the cabbage roses had been trimmed, so that they did not drag over the walk,
                        while the yard had been gone over with a lawn-mower.
                    
                    Kate turned to her father. "Well, for land's
                        sake!" she said. "I wanted a lawn-mower all last summer,
                        and you wouldn't buy it for me. I wonder why you got it the minute
                        I was gone."
                    "I got it because Nancy Ellen especially wanted it, and she has been
                        a mighty good girl all summer," he said.
                    "If that is the case, then she should be rewarded with the privilege
                        of running a lawn-mower," said Kate.
                    Her father looked at her sharply; but her face was so pleasant he decided she
                        did not intend to be saucy, so he said: "No doubt she will be
                        willing to let you help her all you want to."
                    "Not the ghost of a doubt about that," laughed Kate,
                        "and I always wanted to try running one, too. They look so nice in
                        pictures, and how one improves a place! I hardly know this is home. Now if
                        we only had a fresh coat of white paint we could line up with the
                        neighbours."
                    "I have been thinking about that," said Mr. Bates, and Kate
                        glanced at him, doubting her hearing.
                    He noticed her surprise and added in explanation: "Paint every so
                        often saves a building. It's good economy."
                    "Then let's economize immediately," said Kate.
                        "And on the barn, too. It is even more weather-beaten than the
                        house."
                    "I'll see about it the next time I go to town,"
                        said Mr. Bates; so Kate entered the house prepared for anything and
                        wondering what it all meant for wherever she looked everything was shining
                        the brightest that scrubbing and  scouring
                        could make it shine, the best of everything was out and in use; not that it
                        was much, but it made a noticeable difference. Her mother greeted her
                        pleasantly, with a new tone of voice, while Nancy Ellen was transformed.
                        Kate noticed that, immediately. She always had been a pretty girl, now she
                        was beautiful, radiantly beautiful, with a new shining beauty that dazzled
                        Kate as she looked at her. No one offered any explanation while Kate could
                        see none. At last she asked: "What on earth has happened? I
                        don't understand."
                    "Of course you don't," laughed Nancy Ellen.
                        "You thought you ran the whole place and did everything yourself,
                        so I thought I'd just show you how things look when I run
                        them."
                    "You are a top-notcher," said Kate. "Figuratively
                        and literally, I offer you the palm. Let the good work go on! I highly
                        approve; but I don't see how you found time to do all this and go
                        to Institute."
                    "I didn't go to Institute," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "You didn't! But you must!" cried Kate.
                    "Oh must I? Well, since you have decided to run your affairs as you
                        please, in spite of all of us, just suppose you let me run mine the same
                        way. Only, I rather enjoy having Father and Mother approve of what I
                        do."
                    Kate climbed the stairs with this to digest as she went; so while she put
                        away her clothing she thought things over, but saw no light. She would go to
                        Adam's to return the telescope to-morrow, possibly he could tell
                        her. As she hung her dresses in the closet and returned Nancy  Ellen's to their places she was still
                        more amazed, for there hung three pretty new wash dresses, one of a rosy
                        pink that would make Nancy Ellen appear very lovely.
                    What was the reason, Kate wondered. The Bates family never did anything
                        unless there was some purpose in it, what was the purpose in this? And Nancy
                        Ellen had not gone to Institute. She evidently had worked constantly and
                        hard, yet she was in much sweeter frame of mind than usual. She must have
                        spent almost all she had saved from her school on new clothes. Kate could
                        not solve the problem, so she decided to watch and wait. She also waited for
                        someone to say something about her plans, but no one said a word, so after
                        waiting all evening Kate decided that they would ask before they learned
                        anything from her. She took her place as usual, and the work went on as if
                        she had not been away; but she was happy, even in her bewilderment.
                    If her father noticed the absence of the letter she had slipped from his
                        pocket he said nothing about it as he drew the paper and letters forth and
                        laid them on the table. Kate had a few bad minutes while this was going on,
                        she was sure he hesitated an instant and looked closely at the letters he
                        sorted; but when he said nothing, she breathed deeply in relief and went on
                        being joyous. It seemed to her that never had the family been in such a
                        good-natured state since Adam had married Agatha and her three hundred acres
                        with house, furniture, and stock. She went on in ignorance of what had
                        happened until after Sunday dinner the following day. Then she had  planned to visit Agatha and Adam. It was very
                        probable that it was because she was dressing for this visit that Nancy
                        Ellen decided on Kate's enlightenment, for she could not have
                        helped seeing that her sister was almost stunned at times.
                    Kate gave her a fine opening. As she stood brushing her wealth of gold with
                        full-length sweeps of her arm, she was at an angle that brought her facing
                        the mirror before which Nancy Ellen sat training waves and pinning up loose
                        braids. Her hair was beautiful and she slowly smiled at her image as she
                        tried different effects of wave, loose curl, braids high piled or flat.
                        Across her bed lay a dress that was a reproduction of one that she had worn
                        for three years, but a glorified reproduction. The original dress had been
                        Nancy Ellen's first departure from the brown and gray gingham which
                        her mother always had purchased because it would wear well, and when from
                        constant washing it faded to an exact dirt colour it had the advantage of
                        providing a background that did not show the dirt. Nancy Ellen had earned
                        the money for a new dress by raising turkeys, so when the turkeys went to
                        town to be sold, for the first time in her life Nancy Ellen went along to
                        select the dress. No one told her what kind of dress to get, because no one
                        imagined that she would dare buy any startling variation from what always
                        had been provided for her.
                    But Nancy Ellen had stood facing a narrow mirror when she reached the gingham
                        counter and the clerk, taking one look at her fresh, beautiful face with its
                        share  contrasts of black eyes and hair,
                        rose-tinted skin that refused to tan, and red cheeks and lips, began shaking
                        out delicate blues, pale pinks, golden yellows. He called them chambray;
                        insisted that they wore for ever, and were fadeless, which was practically
                        the truth. On the day that dress was like to burst its waist seams, it was
                        the same warm rosy pink that transformed Nancy Ellen from the disfiguration
                        of dirt-brown to apple and peach bloom, wild roses and swamp mallow, a girl
                        quite as pretty as a girl ever grows, and much prettier than any girl ever
                        has any business to be. The instant Nancy Ellen held the chambray under her
                        chin and in an oblique glance saw the face of the clerk, the material was
                        hers no matter what the cost, which does not refer to the price, by any
                        means. Knowing that the dress would be an innovation that would set her
                        mother storming and fill Kate with envy, which would probably culminate in
                        the demand that the goods be returned and exchanged for dirt-brown, when she
                        reached home Nancy Ellen climbed from the wagon and told her father that she
                        was going on to Adam's to have Agatha cut out her dress so that she
                        could begin to sew on it that night. Such commendable industry met his
                        hearty approval, so he told her to go and he would see that Kate did her
                        share of the work. Wise Nancy Ellen came home and sat her down to sew on her
                        gorgeous frock, while the storm she had feared raged in all its fury; but
                        the goods was cut, and could not be returned. Yet, through it, a miracle
                        happened: Nancy Ellen so appreciated  herself
                        in pink that the extreme care she used with that dress saved it from half
                        the trips of a dirt-brown one to the wash board and the ironing table;
                        while, marvel of marvels, it did not shrink, it did not fade, also it wore
                        like buckskin. The result was that before the season had passed Kate was
                        allowed to purchase a pale blue, which improved her appearance quite as much
                        in proportion as pink had Nancy Ellen's; neither did the blue fade
                        not shrink nor require so much washing, for the same reason. Three years the
                        pink dress had been Nancy Ellen's pice de
                        rsistance; now she had a new one, much the same, yet conspicuously
                        different. This was a daring rose colour, full and wide, peeping white
                        embroidery trimming, and big pearl buttons, really a beautiful dress, made
                        in a becoming manner. Kate looked at it in cheerful envy. Never mind! The
                        coming summer she would have a blue that would make that pink look silly.
                        From the dress she turned to Nancy Ellen, barely in time to see her bend her
                        head and smirk, broadly, smilingly, approvingly, at her reflection in the
                        glass.
                    "For mercy sake, what is the matter with
                        you?" demanded Kate, ripping out a strand of hair in sudden
                        irritation.
                    "Oh, something lovely!" answered her sister, knowing that
                        this was her chance to impart the glad tidings herself; if she lost it,
                        Agatha would get the thrill of Kate's surprise. So Nancy Ellen
                        opened her drawer and slowly produced and set upon her bureau a cabinet
                        photograph of a remarkably strong-featured, handsome young man.
                    
                    Then she turned to Kate and smiled a slow, challenging smile. Kate walked
                        over and picked up the picture, studying it intently but in growing
                        amazement.
                    "Who is he?" she asked finally.
                    "My man!" answered Nancy Ellen, possessively, triumphantly.
                    Kate stared at her. "Honest to God?" she cried in
                        wonderment.
                    "Honest!" said Nancy Ellen.
                    "Where on earth did you find him?" demanded Kate.
                    "Picked him out of the blackberry patch," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "Those darn blackberries are always late," said Kate,
                        throwing the picture back on the bureau. "Ain't that just
                        my luck! You wouldn't touch the raspberries. I had to pick them
                        every one myself. But the minute I turn my back, you go pick a man like
                        that, out of the blackberry patch. I bet a cow you wore your pink chambray,
                        and carried grandmother's old blue bowl."
                    "Certainly," said Nancy Ellen, "and my pink
                        sun-bonnet. I think maybe the bonnet started it."
                    Kate sat down limply on the first chair and studied the toes of her shoes. At
                        last she roused and looked at Nancy Ellen, waiting in smiling complaisance
                        as she returned the picture to her end of the bureau.
                    "Well, why don't you go ahead?" cried Kate in a
                        thick, rasping voice. "Empty yourself! Who is he? Where did he come
                        from? Why was he in our blackberry
                        patch? Has he really been to see you, and is he courting  you in earnest? But of course he is! There's the lilac bush, the lawn-mower, the
                        house to be painted, and a humdinger dress. Is he a millionaire? For
                        Heaven's sake tell me"
                    "Give me some chance! I did meet him in the blackberry patch.
                        He's a nephew of Henry Lang and his name is Robert Gray. He has
                        just finished a medical course and he came here to rest and look at Hartley
                        for a location, because Lang thinks it would be such a good one. And since
                        we met he has decided to take an office in Hartley, and he has money to
                        furnish it, and to buy and furnish a nice house."
                    "Great Jehoshaphat!" cried Kate. "And I bet
                        he's got wings, too! I do have the rottenest luck!"
                    "You act for all the world as if it were a foregone conclusion that
                        if you had been here, you'd have won him!"
                    Nancy Ellen glanced in the mirror and smiled, while Kate saw the smile. She
                        picked up her comb and drew herself to full height.
                    "If anything ever was a 'foregone
                        conclusion,'" she said, "it is a
                        'foregone conclusion' that if I had been
                        here, I'd have picked the blackberries, and so I'd have
                        had the first chance at him, at least."
                    "Much good it would have done you!" cried Nancy Ellen.
                        "Wait until he comes, and you see him!"
                    "You may do your mushing in private," said Kate.
                        "I don't need a demonstration to convince me. He looks
                        from the picture like a man who would be as soft at a frosted
                        pawpaw."
                    
                    Nancy Ellen's face flamed crimson. "You hateful
                        spite-cat!" she cried.
                    Then she picked up the picture and laid it face down in her drawer, while two
                        big tears ran down her cheeks. Kate saw those also. Instantly she relented.
                    "You big silly goose!" she said. "Can't
                        you tell when any one is teasing? I think I never saw a finer face than the
                        one in that picture. I'm jealous because I never left home a day
                        before in all my life, and the minute I do, here you go and have such luck.
                        Are you really sure of him, Nancy Ellen?"
                    "Well, he asked Father and Mother, and I've been to visit
                        his folks, and he told them; and I've been with him to Hartley
                        hunting a house; and I'm not to teach this winter, so I can have
                        all my time to make my clothes and bedding. Father likes him fine, so he is
                        going to give me money to get all I need. He offered to, himself."
                    Kate finished her braid, pulled the combings from the comb and slowly wrapped
                        the end of her hair as she digested these convincing facts. She swung the
                        heavy braid around her head, placed a few pins, then crossed to her sister
                        and laid a shaking hand on her shoulder. Her face was working strongly.
                    "Nancy Ellen, I didn't mean one ugly word I said. You gave
                        me an awful surprise, and that was just my bald, ugly Bates way of taking
                        it. I think you are one of the most beautiful women I ever have seen, alive
                        or pictured. I have always thought you would make a fine marriage, and I am
                        sure you will. I haven't a doubt  that
                        Robert Gray is all you think him, and I am as glad for you as I can be. You
                        can keep house in Hartley for two with scarcely any work at all, and you can
                        have all the pretty clothes you want, and time to wear them. Doctors always
                        get rich if they are good ones, and he is sure to be a good one, once he
                        gets a start. If only we weren't so beastly healthy there are
                        enough Bates and Langs to support you the first year. And I'll help
                        you sew, and do all I can for you. Now wipe up and look your
                        handsomest!"
                    Nancy Ellen arose and put her arms around Kate's neck, a stunningly
                        unusual proceeding. "Thank you," she said. "That
                        is big and fine of you. But I always have shirked and put my work on you; I
                        guess now I'll quit, and do my sewing myself."
                    Then she slipped the pink dress over her head and stood slowly fastening it
                        as Kate started to leave the room. Seeing her go: "I wish you would
                        wait and meet Robert," she said. "I have told him about
                        what a nice sister I have."
                    "I think I'll go on to Adam's now," said
                        Kate. "I don't want to wait until they go some place, and
                        I miss them. I'll do better to meet your man after I become more
                        accustomed to bare facts, anyway. By the way, is he as tall as
                        you?"
                    "Yes," said Nancy Ellen, laughing. "He is an inch
                        and a half taller. Why?"
                    "Oh, I hate seeing a woman taller than her husband and I've
                        always wondered where we'd find men to reach  our shoulders. But if they can be picked at random from the
                        berry patch"
                    So Kate went on her way laughing, lifting her white skirts high from the late
                        August dust. She took a short cut through the woods and at a small stream,
                        with sure foot, crossed the log to within a few steps of the opposite bank.
                        There she stopped, for a young man rounded the bushes and set a foot on the
                        same log; then he and Kate looked straight into each other's eyes.
                        Kate saw a clean-shaven, forceful young face, with strong lines and good
                        colouring, clear gray eyes, sandy brown hair, even, hard, white teeth, and
                        broad shoulders a little above her own. The man saw Kate, dressed in her
                        best and looking her best. Slowly she extended her hand.
                    "I bet a picayune you are my new brother, Robert," she
                        said.
                    The young man gripped her hand firmly, held it, and kept on looking in rather
                        a stunned manner at Kate.
                    "Well, aren't you?" she asked, trying to withdraw
                        the hand.
                    "I never, never would have believed it," he said.
                    "Believed what?" asked Kate, leaving the hand where it was.
                    "That there could be two in the same family," said he.
                    "But I'm as different from Nancy Ellen as night from
                        day," said Kate, "besides, woe is me, I didn't
                        wear a pink dress and pick you from the berry patch in a blue
                        bowl."
                    Then the man released her hand and laughed. "You  wouldn't have had the slightest
                        trouble, if you had been there," he said.
                    "Except that I should have inverted my bowl," said Kate,
                        calmly. "I am looking for a millionaire, riding a milk-white steed,
                        and he must be much taller than you and have black hair and eyes. Good-bye,
                        brother! I will see you this evening."
                    Then Kate went down the path to deliver the telescope, render her thanks,
                        make her promise of speedy payment, and for the first time tell her good
                        news about her school. She found that she was very happy as she went and
                        quite convinced that her first flight would prove entirely successful.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    A QUESTION OF CONTRACTS
                    
                    
                        HELLO, Folks!" cried Kate, waving her hand to the
                        occupants of the veranda as she went up the walk. "Glad to find you
                        at home."
                    "That is where you will always find me unless I am forced away on
                        business," said her brother as they shook hands.
                    Agatha was pleased with this, and stiff as steel, she bent the length of her
                        body toward Kate and gave her a tight-lipped little peck on the cheek.
                    "I came over, as soon as I could," said Kate as she took
                        the chair her brother offered, "to thank you for the big thing you
                        did for me, Agatha, when you lent me that money. If I had known where I was
                        going, or the help it would be to me, I should have gone if I'd had
                        to walk and work for my board. Why, I feel so sure of myself! I've
                        learned so much that I'm like the girl fresh from boarding school:
                        'The only wonder is that one small head can contain it
                        all.' Thank you over and over and I've got a good school,
                        so I can pay you back the very first month, I think. If there are things I
                        must have, I can pay part the first month and the remainder the second. I am
                        eager for pay-day. I can't even 
                        picture the bliss of having that much money in my fingers, all my own, to do
                        with as I please. Won't it be grand?"
                    In the same breath said Agatha: "Procure yourself some
                        clothes!" Said Adam: "Start a bank account!"
                    Said Kate: "Right you are! I shall do both."
                    "Even our little Susan has a bank account," said Adam, Jr.,
                        proudly.
                    "Which is no reflection whatever on me," laughed Kate.
                        "Susan did not have the same father and mother I had. I'd
                        like to see a girl of my branch of the Bates family start a bank account at
                        ten."
                    "No, I guess she wouldn't," admitted Adam, dryly.
                    "But have you heard what Nancy Ellen has started?" cried
                        Kate. "Only think! A lawn-mower! The house and barn to be painted!
                        All the dinge possible to remove scoured away, inside! She must have worn
                        her fingers almost to the bone! And really, Agatha, have you seen the man?
                        He's as big as Adam, and just fine looking. I'm simply
                        consumed with envy." 
                            
                                "Miss Medira, Dora, Ann, cast her net,
                                And catched a man!"
                            
                         recited Susan from the top step, at which they all laughed.
                    "No, I have not had the pleasure of casting my optics upon the
                        individual of Nancy Ellen's choice," said Agatha primly,
                        "but Miss Amelia Lang tells me he is a very distinguished person,
                        of quite superior education in a medical way. I shall call him if I ever
                        have the misfortune to fall  ill again. I hope
                        you will tell Nancy Ellen that we shall be very pleased to have her bring
                        him to see us some evening, and if she will let me know a short time ahead I
                        shall take great pleasure in compounding a cake and freezing
                        custard."
                    "Of course I shall tell her, and she will feel a trifle more stuck
                        up than she does now, if that is possible," laughed Kate in deep
                        amusement.
                    She surely was feeling fine. Everything had come out so splendidly. That was
                        what came of having a little spirit and standing up for your rights. Also
                        she was bubbling inside while Agatha talked. Kate wondered how Adam survived
                        it every day. She glanced at him to see if she could detect any marks of
                        shattered nerves, then laughed outright.
                    Adam was the finest physical specimen of a man she knew. He was good looking
                        also, and spoke as well as the average, better in fact, for from the day of
                        their marriage, Agatha sat on his lap each night and said these words:
                        "My beloved, to-day I noted an error in your speech. It would put a
                        former teacher to much embarrassment to have this occur in public. In the
                        future will you not try to remember that you should say, 'have
                        gone,' instead of 'have went?'" As she
                        talked Agatha rumpled Adam's hair, pulled off his string tie, upon
                        which she insisted, even when he was plowing; laid her hard little face
                        against his, and held him tight with her frail arms, so that Adam being part
                        human as well as part Bates, held her closely also and said these words:
                        "You  bet your sweet life I
                        will!" And what is more he did. He followed a furrow the next day,
                        softly muttering over to himself: "Langs have gone to town. I have
                        gone to work. The birds have gone to building nests." So Adam
                        seldom said: "have went," or made any other error in
                        speech that Agatha had once corrected.
                    As Kate watched him leaning back in his chair, vital, a study in well-being,
                        the supremest kind of satisfaction on his face, she noted the flash that
                        lighted his eye when Agatha offered to "freeze a custard."
                        How like Agatha! Any other woman Kate knew would have said, "make
                        ice cream." Agatha explained to them that when they beat up eggs,
                        added milk, sugar, and corn-starch it was custard. When they used pure
                        cream, sweetened and frozen, it was iced cream. Personally, she preferred
                        the custard, but she did not propose to call a custard, cream. It was not
                        correct. Why persist in misstatements and inaccuracies when one knew better?
                        So Agatha said iced cream when she meant it, and frozen custard, when
                        custard it was, but every other woman in the neighbourhood, had she acted as
                        she felt, would have slapped Agatha's face when she said it: this
                        both Adam and Kate well knew, so it made Kate laugh despite the fact that
                        she would not have offended Agatha purposely.
                    "I thinkI think," said Agatha, "that Nancy Ellen
                        has much upon which to congratulate herself. More education would not injure
                        her, but she has enough that if she will allow her ambition to rule her and
                        study in private and spend her spare time communing with the  best writers, she can make an exceedingly fair
                        intellectual showing, while she surely is a handsome woman. With a good home
                        and such a fine young professional man as she has had the good fortune to
                        attract, she should immediately put herself at the head of society in
                        Hartley and become its leader to a much higher moral and intellectual plane
                        than it now occupies."
                    "Bet she has a good time," said young Adam.
                        "He's awful nice."
                    "Son," said Agatha, "'awful,'
                        means full of awe. A cyclone, a cloudburst, a great conflagration are awful
                        things. By no stretch of the imagination could they be called
                        nice."
                    "But, Ma, if a cyclone blew away your worst enemy wouldn't
                        it be nice?"
                    Adam, Jr., and Kate laughed. Not the trace of a smile crossed
                        Agatha's pale face.
                    "The words do not belong in contiguity," she said.
                        "They are diametrically opposite in meaning. Please do not allow my
                        ears to be offended by hearing you place them in propinquity
                        again."
                    "I'll try not to, Ma," said young Adam; then
                        Agatha smiled on him approvingly. "When did you meet Mr. Gray,
                        Katherine?" she asked.
                    "On the foot-log crossing the creek beside Lang's line
                        fence. Near the spot Nancy Ellen first met him I imagine."
                    "How did you recognize him?"
                    "Nancy Ellen had just been showing me his picture  and telling me about him. Great Day, but
                        she's in love with him!"
                    "And so he is with her, if Lang's conclusions from his
                        behaviour can be depended upon. They inform me that he can be induced to
                        converse on no other subject. The whole arrangement appeals to me as
                        distinctly admirable."
                    "And you should see the lilac bush and the cabbage roses,"
                        said Kate. "And the strangest thing is Father. He is peaceable as a
                        lamb. She is not to teach, but to spend the winter sewing on her clothes and
                        bedding, and Father told her he would give her the necessary money. She said
                        so. And I suspect he will. He always favoured her because she was so pretty,
                        and she can come closer to wheedling him than any of the rest of us
                        excepting you, Agatha."
                    "It is an innovation, surely!"
                    "Mother is nearly as bad. Father furnishing money for clothes and
                        painting the barn is no more remarkable than Mother letting her turn the
                        house inside out. If it had been I, Father would have told me to teach my
                        school this winter, buy my own clothes and linen with the money I had
                        earned, and do my sewing next summer. But I am not jealous. It is because
                        she is handsome and the man fine-looking and with such good
                        prospects."
                    "There you have it!" said Adam emphatically. "If
                        it were you, marrying Jim Lang, to live on Lang's west forty, you
                            would pay your own way. But if it were you marrying a
                        fine-looking young doctor, who will soon be a power in Hartley, no doubt, it
                        would tickle Father's vanity until he would do the same for
                        you."
                    
                    "I doubt it!" said Kate. "I can't see the
                        vanity in Father."
                    "You can't?" said Adam, Jr., bitterly.
                        "Maybe not You have not been with him in the Treasurer's
                        office when he calls for 'the tax on those little parcels of land
                        of mine. He looks every inch of six feet six then, and swells like a toad.
                        To hear him you would think sixteen hundred and fifty acres of the cream of
                        this county could be tied in a bandanna and carried on a walking stick, he
                        is so casual about it. And those men fly around like buttons on a barn door
                        to wait on him and it's 'Mister Bates this' and
                        'Mister Bates that,' until it turns my stomach. Vanity! He
                        rolls in it! He eats it! He risks losing our lan- for us
                        that some of us have slaved over for twenty years, to feed that especial
                        vein of his vanity. Where should we be if he let anything happen to those
                        deeds?"
                    "How refreshing!" cried Kate. "I love to hear you
                        grouching! I hear nothing else from the women of the Bates family, but I
                        didn't even know the men had a grouch. Are Peter, and John, and
                        Hiram, and the other boys sore, too?"
                    "I should say they are! But they are too diplomatic to say so. They
                        are afraid to cheep. I just open my head and say right out loud in meeting
                        that since I've turned in the taxes and insurance for all these
                        years and improved my land more than fifty per cent., I'd like to
                        own it, and pay my taxes myself, like a man."
                    "I'd like to have some land under any conditions,"
                        said Kate, "but probably I never shall. And I bet you  never get a flipper on that deed until Father
                        has crossed over Jordan, which with his health and strength won't
                        be for twenty-five years yet at least. He's performing a miracle
                        that will make the other girls rave, when he gives Nancy Ellen money to buy
                        her outfit; but they won't dare let him hear a whisper of it.
                        They'll take it all out on Mother, and she'll be afraid to
                        tell him."
                    "Afraid? Mother afraid of him? Not on your life. She is hand in
                        glove with him. She thinks as he does, and helps him in everything he
                        undertakes."
                    "That's so, too. Come to think of it, she isn't a
                        particle afraid of him. She agrees with him perfectly. It would be
                        interesting to hear them having a private conversation. They never talk a
                        word before us. But they always agree, and they heartily agree on Nancy
                        Ellen's man, that is plainly to be seen."
                    "It will make a very difficult winter for you, Katherine,"
                        said Agatha. "When Nancy Ellen becomes interested in dresses and
                        table linen and bedding she will want to sew all the time, and leave the
                        cooking and dishes for you as well as your schoolwork."
                    Kate turned toward Agatha in surprise. "But I won't be
                        there! I told you I had taken a school."
                    "You taken a school!" shouted Adam. "Why,
                        didn't they tell you that Father has signed up for the home school
                        for you?"
                    "Good Heavens!" said Kate. "What will be to pay
                        now?"
                    "Did you contract for another school?" cried Adam
                    
                    "I surely did," said Kate slowly. "I signed an
                        agreement to teach the village school in Walden. It's a brick
                        building with a janitor to sweep and watch fires, only a few blocks to walk,
                        and it pays twenty dollars a month more than the home school where you can
                        wade snow three miles, build your own fires, and freeze all day in a little
                        frame building at that. I teach the school I have taken."
                    "And throw our school out of a teacher? Father could be sued, and
                        probably will be," said Adam. "And throw the housework
                        Nancy Ellen expected you to do on her," said Agatha, at the same
                        time.
                    "I see," said Kate. "Well, if he is sued, he will
                        have to settle. He wouldn't help me a penny to go to school, I am
                        of age, the debt is my own, and I don't owe it to him.
                        He's had all my work has been worth all my life, and I've
                        surely paid my way. I shall teach the school I have signed for."
                    "You will get into a pretty kettle of fish!" said Adam.
                    "Agatha, will you sell me your telescope for what you paid for it,
                        and get yourself a new one the next time you go to Hartley? It is only a few
                        days until time to go to my school, it opens sooner than in the country, and
                        closes later. The term is four months longer, so I earn that much more. I
                        haven't gotten a telescope yet. You can add it to my first
                        payment."
                    "You may take it," said Agatha, "but
                        hadn't you better reconsider, Katherine? Things are progressing so
                        nicely, and this will upset everything for Nancy Ellen."
                    
                    "That taking the home school will upset everything for me,
                        doesn't seem to count. It is late, late to find teachers, and I can
                        be held responsible if I break the contract I have made. Father can stand
                        the racket better than I can. When he wouldn't consent to my going,
                        he had no business to make plans for me. I had to make my own plans and go
                        in spite of him; he might have known I'd do all in my power to get
                        a school. Besides, I don't want the home school, or the home work
                        piled on me. My hands look like a human being's for the first time
                        in my life; then I need all my time outside of school to study and map out
                        lessons. I am going to try for a room in the Hartley schools next year, or
                        the next after that, surely. They sha'n't change my plans
                        and boss me, I am going to be free to work, and study, and help myself, like
                        other teachers."
                    "A grand row this will be," commented young Adam.
                        "And as usual Kate will be right, while all of them will be trying
                        to use her to their advantage. Ma has done her share. Now it is your turn,
                        Pa. Ain't you going to go over and help her?"
                    "What could I do?" demanded his father. "The
                        mischief is done now."
                    "Well, if you can't do anything to help, you can let me
                        have the buggy to drive her to Walden, if they turn her out."
                    "'Forcibly invite her to proceed to her
                        destination,' you mean, son," said Agatha.
                    "Yes, Ma, that is exactly what I mean," said young Adam.
                        "Do I get the buggy?"
                    
                    "Yes, you may take my private conveyance. But do nothing to publish
                        the fact. There is no need to incur antagonism if it can be
                        avoided."
                    "Kate, I'll be driving past the privet bush about nine in
                        the morning. If you need me, hang a white rag on it, and I'll stop
                        at the corner of the orchard."
                    "I shall probably be standing in the road waiting for you,"
                        said Kate.
                    "Oh, I hope not," said Agatha.
                    "Looks remarkably like it to me," said Kate.
                    Then she picked up the telescope, said good-bye to each of them, and in acute
                        misery started back to her home. This time she followed the footpath beside
                        the highway. She was so busy with her indignant thought that she forgot to
                        protect her skirts from the dust of wayside weeds, while in her excitement
                        she walked so fast her face was red and perspiring when she approached the
                        church.
                    "Oh, dear, I don't know about it," said Kate to
                        the small, silent building. "I am trying to follow your advice, but
                        it seems to me that life is very difficult, any way you go at it. If it
                        isn't one thing, it is another. An hour ago I was the happiest I
                        have ever been in my life; only look at me now! Any one who wants
                        'the wings of morning' may have them, for all of me. It
                        seems definitely settled that I walk, carry a load, and fight for the chance
                        to do even that."
                    A big tear rolled down either side of Kate's nose and her face
                        twisted in self-pity for an instant. But when 
                        she came in sight of home her shoulders squared, the blue-gray of her eyes
                        deepened to steel, and her lips set in a line that was an exact counterpart
                        of her father's when he had made up his mind and was ready to drive
                        his family, with their consent or without it. As she passed the vegetable
                        gardenthere was no time or room for flowers in a Bates gardenKate, looking
                        ahead, could see Nancy Ellen and Robert Gray beneath the cherry trees. She
                        hoped Nancy Ellen would see that she was tired and dusty, and should have
                        time to brush and make herself more presentable to meet a stranger, and so
                        Nancy Ellen did; for which reason she immediately arose and came to the
                        gate, followed by her suitor whom she at once introduced. Kate was in no
                        mood for words; one glance at her proved to Robert Gray that she was tired
                        and dusty, that there were tear marks dried on her face. They hastily shook
                        hands, but neither mentioned the previous meeting. Excusing herself Kate
                        went into the house saying she would soon return.
                    Nancy Ellen glanced at Robert, and saw the look of concern on his face.
                    "I believe she has been crying," she said. "And if
                        she has, it's something new, for I never saw a tear on her face
                        before in my life."
                    "Truly?" he questioned in amazement.
                    "Why, of course! The Bates family are not weepers."
                    "So I have heard," said the man, rather dryly.
                    Nancy Ellen resented his tone.
                    "Would you like us better if we were?"
                    
                    "I couldn't like you better than I do, but because of what
                        I have heard and seen, it naturally makes me wonder what could have happened
                        that has made her cry."
                    "We are rather outspoken, and not at all secretive," said
                        Nancy Ellen, carelessly, "you will soon know."
                    Kate followed the walk around the house and entered at the side door, finding
                        her father and mother in the dining room reading the weekly papers. Her
                        mother glanced up as she entered.
                    "What did you bring Agatha's telescope back with you
                        for?" she instantly demanded.
                    For a second Kate hesitated. It had to come, she might as well get it over.
                        Possibly it would be easier with them alone than if Nancy Ellen were
                        present.
                    "It is mine," she said. "It represents my first
                        purchase on my own hook and line."
                    "You are not very choicy to begin on second-hand stuff. Nancy Ellen
                        would have had a new one."
                    "No doubt!" said Kate. "But this will do for
                        me."
                    Her father lowered his paper and asked harshly: "What did you buy
                        that thing for?"
                    Kate gripped the handle and braced herself.
                    "To pack my clothes in when I go to my school next week,"
                        she said simply.
                    "What?" he shouted. "What?" cried her
                        mother.
                    "I don't know why you seem surprised," said Kate.
                        "Surely you knew I went to Normal to prepare myself to teach. Did
                        you think I couldn't find a school?"
                    
                    "Now look here, young woman," shouted Adam Bates,
                        "you are done taking the bit in your teeth. Nancy Ellen is not
                        going to teach this winter. I have taken the home school for you; you will
                        teach it. That is settled. I have signed the contract. It must be
                        fulfilled."
                    "Then Nancy Ellen will have to fulfill it," said Kate.
                        "I also have signed a contract that must be fulfilled. I am of age,
                        and you had no authority from me to sign a contract for me."
                    For an instant Kate thought there was danger that the purple rush of blood to
                        her father's head might kill him. He opened his mouth, but no
                        distinct words came. Her face paled with fright, but she was of his blood,
                        so she faced him quietly. Her mother was quicker of wit, and sharper of
                        tongue.
                    "Where did you get a school? Why didn't you wait until you
                        got home?" she demanded.
                    "I am going to teach the village school in Walden," said
                        Kate. "It is a brick building, has a janitor, I can board
                        reasonably, near my work, and I get twenty dollars more a month than our
                        school pays, while the term is four months longer."
                    "Well it is a pity about that; but it makes no difference,"
                        said her mother. "Our home school has got to be taught as Pa
                        contracted, and Nancy Ellen has got to have her chance."
                    "What about my chance?" asked Kate evenly. "Not
                        one of the girls, even Exceptional Ability, ever had as good a school or as
                        high wages to start on. If I do  well there
                        this winter, I am sure I can get in the Hartley graded schools next
                        fall."
                    "Don't you dare nickname your sister," cried Mrs.
                        Bates, shrilly. "You stop your impudence and mind your
                        father."
                    "Ma, you leave this to me," said Adam Bates, thickly. Then
                        he glared at Kate as he arose, stretching himself to full height.
                        "You've signed a contract for a school?" he
                        demanded.
                    "I have," said Kate.
                    "Why didn't you wait until you got home and talked it over
                        with us?" he questioned.
                    "I went to you to talk over the subject of going," said
                        Kate. "You would not even allow me to speak. How was I to know that
                        you would have the slightest interest in what school I took, or
                        where."
                    "When did you sign this contract?" he continued.
                    "Yesterday afternoon, in Hartley," said Kate.
                    "Aha! Then I did miss a letter from my pocket. When did you get to
                        be a thief?" he demanded.
                    "Oh, Father!" cried Kate. "It was my letter. I
                        could see my name on the envelope. I asked you for it,
                        before I took it."
                    "From behind my back, like the sneak-thief you are. You are not fit
                        to teach a school where half the scholars are the children of your brothers
                        and sisters, and you are not fit to live with honest people. Pack your
                        things and be off!"
                    "Now? This afternoon?" asked Kate.
                    
                    "This minute!" he cried.
                    "All right. You will be surprised at how quickly I can go,"
                        said Kate.
                    She set down the telescope and gathered a straw sunshade and an apron from
                        the hooks at the end of the room, opened the dish cupboard, and took out a
                        mug decorated with the pinkest of wild roses and the reddest and fattest of
                        robins, bearing the inscription in gold, "For a Good Girl"
                        on a banner in its beak. Kate smiled at it grimly as she took the telescope
                        and ran upstairs. It was the work of only a few minutes to gather her books
                        and clothing and pack the big telescope, then she went down the front stairs
                        and left the house by the front door carrying in her hand everything she
                        possessed on earth. As she went down the walk Nancy Ellen sprang up and ran
                        to her while Robert Gray followed.
                    "You'll have to talk to me on the road," said
                        Kate. "I am forbidden the house which also means the grounds, I
                        suppose."
                    She walked across the road, set the telescope on the grass under a big elm
                        tree, and sat down beside it.
                    "I find I am rather tired," she said. "Will you
                        share the sofa with me?"
                    Nancy Ellen lifted her pink skirt and sat beside Kate. Robert Gray stood
                        looking down at them.
                    "What in the world is the matter?" asked Nancy Ellen.
                    "You know, of course, that Father signed a contract for me to teach
                        the home school this winter," explained  Kate. "Well, I am of age, and he had no authority from me, so
                        his contract isn't legal. None of you would lift a finger to help
                        me get away to Normal, how was I to know that you would take any interest in
                        finding me a school while I was gone? I thought it was all up to me, so I
                        applied for the school in Walden, got it, and signed the contract to teach
                        it. It is a better school, at higher wages. I thought you would teach hereI
                        can't break my contract. Father is furious and has ordered me out
                        of the house. So there you are, or rather here I am."
                    "Well, it isn't much of a joke," said Nancy Ellen,
                        thinking intently.
                    What she might have said had they been alone, Kate always wondered. What she
                        did say while her betrothed looked at her with indignant eyes was possibly
                        another matter. It proved to be merely: "Oh, Kate, I am so
                        sorry!"
                    "So am I," said Kate. "If I had known what your
                        plans were, of course I should gladly have helped you out. If only you had
                        written me and told me."
                    "I wanted to surprise you," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "You have," said Kate. "Enough to last a lifetime.
                        I don't see how you figured. You knew how late it was. You knew it
                        would be nip and tuck if I got a school at all."
                    "Of course we did! We thought you couldn't possibly get
                        one, this late, so we fixed up the scheme to let you have my school, and let
                        me sew on my linen this winter. We thought you would be as pleased as we
                        were."
                    
                    "I am too sorry for words," said Kate. "If I had
                        known your plan, I would have followed it, even though I gave up a better
                        school at a higher salary. But I didn't know. I thought I had to
                        paddle my own canoe, so I made my own plans. Now I must live up to them,
                        because my contract is legal, while Father's is not. I would have
                        taught the school for you, in the circumstances, but since I can't,
                        so far as I am concerned, the arrangement I have made is much better. The
                        thing that really hurts the worst, aside from disappointing you, is that
                        Father says I was not honest in what I did."
                    "But what did you do?" cried Nancy Ellen.
                    So Kate told them exactly what she had done.
                    "Of course you had a right to your own letter, when you could see
                        the address on it, and it was where you could pick it up," said
                        Robert Gray.
                    Kate lifted dull eyes to his face.
                    "Thank you for so much grace, at any rate," she said.
                    "I don't blame you a bit," said Nancy Ellen.
                        "In the same place I'd have taken it myself."
                    "You wouldn't have had to," said Kate.
                        "I'm too abrupttoo much like the gentleman himself. You
                        would have asked him in a way that would have secured you the letter with no
                        trouble."
                    Nancy Ellen highly appreciated these words of praise before her lover. She
                        arose immediately.
                    "Maybe I could do something with him now," she said.
                        "I'll go and see."
                    "You shall do nothing of the kind," said Kate. "I
                             am as much Bates as he is. I
                        won't be taunted afterward that he turned me out and that I sent
                        you to him to plead for me."
                    "I'll tell him you didn't want me to come, that I
                        came of my own accord," offered Nancy Ellen.
                    "And he won't believe you," said Kate.
                    "Would you consent for me to go?" asked Robert Gray.
                    "Certainly not! I can look out for myself."
                    "What shall you do?" asked Nancy Ellen anxiously.
                    "That is getting slightly ahead of me," said Kate.
                        "If I had been diplomatic I could have evaded this until morning.
                        Adam, 3d, is to be over then, prepared to take me anywhere I want to go.
                        What I have to face now is a way to spend the night without letting the
                        neighbours know that I am turned out. How can I manage that?"
                    Nancy Ellen and Robert each began making suggestions, but Kate preferred to
                        solve her own problems.
                    "I think," she said, "that I shall hide the
                        telescope under the privet bush, there isn't going to be rain
                        to-night; and then I will go down to Hiram's and stay all night and
                        watch for Adam when he passes in the morning. Hiram always grumbles because
                        we don't come oftener."
                    "Then we will go with you," said Nancy Ellen. "It
                        will be a pleasant evening walk, and we can keep you company and pacify my
                        twin brother at the same time."
                    So they all walked to the adjoining farm on the south and when Nancy Ellen
                        and Robert were ready to start back, Kate said she was tired and she
                        believed she would  stay until morning, which
                        was agreeable to Hiram and his wife, a girlhood friend of Kate's.
                        As Nancy Ellen and Robert walked back toward home: "How is this
                        going to come out?" he asked, anxiously.
                    "It will come out all right," said Nancy Ellen, serenely.
                        "Kate hasn't a particle of tact. She is Father himself,
                        all over again. It will come out this way: he will tell me that Kate has
                        gone back on him and I shall have to teach the school, and I will say that
                        is the only solution and the best thing
                        to do. Then I shall talk all evening about how provoking it is, and how I
                        hate to change my plans, and say I am afraid I shall lose you if I have to
                        put off our wedding to teach the school, and things like that,"
                        Nancy Ellen turned a flushed sparkling face to Robert, smiling quizzically,
                        "and to-morrow I shall go early to see Serena Woodruff, who is a
                        fine scholar and a good teacher, but missed her school in the spring by
                        being so sick she was afraid to contract for it. She is all right now, and
                        she will be delighted to have the school, and when I know she will take it
                        then I shall just happen to think of her in a day or two and I'll
                        suggest her, after I've wailed a lot more; and Father will go to
                        see her of his own accord, and it will all be settled as easy as falling off
                        a chunk, only I shall not get on so fast with my sewing, because of having
                        to help Mother; but I shall do my best, and everything will be all
                        right."
                    The spot was secluded. Robert Gray stopped to tell Nancy Ellen what a
                        wonderful girl she was. He said he was rather afraid of such diplomacy. He
                        foresaw clearly  that he was going to be a
                        managed man. Nancy Ellen told him of course he was, all men were, the thing
                        was not to let them know it. Then they laughed and listened to a wood robin
                        singing out his little heart in an evening song that was almost as melodious
                        as his spring perfermances had been.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    THE PRODIGAL DAUGHTER
                    
                    
                        EARLY in the morning Kate set her young nephew on the
                        gate-post to watch for his cousin, and he was to have a penny for calling at
                        his approach. When his lusty shout came, Kate said good-bye to her
                        sister-in-law, paid the penny, kissed the baby, and was standing in the road
                        when Adam stopped. He looked at her inquiringly.
                    "Well, it happened," she said. "He turned me out
                        instanter, with no remarks about when I might return, if ever, while Mother
                        cordially seconded the motion. It's a good thing, Adam, that you
                        offered to take care of me, because I see clearly that you are going to have
                        it to do."
                    "Of course I will," said Adam promptly. "And of
                        course I can. Do you want to go to Hartley for anything? Because if you
                        don't, we can cut across from the next road and get to Walden in
                        about fifteen miles, while it's seventeen by Hartley; but if you
                        want to go we can, for I needn't hurry. I've got a box of
                        lunch and a feed for my horse in the back of the buggy. Mother said I was to
                        stay with you until I saw you settled in your room, if you had to go; and if
                        you do, she is angry with  Grandpa, and she is
                        going to give him a portion of her mentality the very first time she comes
                        in contact with him. She said so."
                    "Yes, I can almost hear her," said Kate, struggling to
                        choke down a rising laugh. "She will never know how I appreciate
                        what she has done for me, but I think talking to Father will not do any
                        good. Home hasn't been so overly pleasant. It's been a
                        small, dark, cramped house, dingy and hot, when it might have been big,
                        airy, and comfortable, well furnished and pretty as Father's means
                        would allow, and as all the neighbours always criticize him for not having
                        it; it's meant hard work and plenty of it ever since I was set to
                        scouring the tinware with rushes at the mature age of four, but
                        it's been home, all the home I have had, and it hurts more than I
                        can tell you to be ordered out of it as I was, but if I do well and make a
                        big success, maybe he will let me come back for Christmas, or next
                        summer's vacation."
                    "If he won't, Ma said you could come to our
                        house," said Adam.
                    "That's kind of her, but I couldn't do
                        it," said Kate.
                    "She said you could," persisted the boy.
                    "But if I did it, and father got as mad as he was last night and
                        tore up your father's deed, then where would I be?" asked
                        Kate.
                    "You'd be a sixteenth of two hundred acres better off than
                        you are now," said Adam.
                    "Possibly," laughed Kate, "but I wouldn't
                        want to become a land shark that way. Look down the road."
                    
                    "Who is it?" asked Adam.
                    "Nancy Ellen, with my telescope," answered Kate.
                        "I am to go, all right."
                    "All right, then we will go," said the boy, angrily.
                        "But it is a blame shame and there is no sense to it, as good a
                        girl as you have been, and the way you have worked. Mother said at breakfast
                        there was neither sense nor justice in the way Grandpa always has acted and
                        she said she would wager all she was worth that he would live to regret it.
                        She said it wasn't natural, and when people undertook to
                        controvertain't that a peach? Bet there isn't a woman in
                        ten miles using that word except Manature they always hurt themselves worse
                        than they hurt their victims. And I bet he does, too, and I, for one,
                        don't care. I hope he does get a good jolt, just to pay him up for
                        being so mean."
                    "Don't, Adam, don't!" cautioned Kate.
                    "I mean it!" cried the boy.
                    "I know you do. That's the awful thing about it,"
                        said Kate. "I am afraid every girl he has feels the same way, and
                        from what your father said yesterday, even the sons he favours
                        don't feel any too good toward him."
                    "You just bet they don't! They are every one as sore as
                        boiled owls. Pa said so, and he knows, for they all talk it over every time
                        they meet. He said they didn't feel like men, they felt like a lot
                        of 'spanked school-boys.'"
                    "They needn't worry," said Kate. "Every
                        deed is made out. Father reads them over whenever it rains.  They'll all get their land when he
                        dies. It is only his way."
                    "Yes, and this is only his way, too, and
                        it's a dern poor way," said Adam. "Pa
                        isn't going to do this way at all. Mother said he could go and live
                        on his land, and she'd stay home with Susan and me, if he tried it.
                        And when I am a man I am going to do just like Pa and Ma because they are
                        the rightest people I know, only I am not going to save quite so close as Pa, and if I died for it, I never could converse or
                        dance like Ma."
                    "I should hope not!" said Kate, and then added hastily,
                        "it's all right for a lady, but it would seem rather sissy
                        for a man, I believe."
                    "Yes, I guess it would, but it is language let me tell you, when Ma
                        cuts loose," said Adam.
                    "Hello, Nancy Ellen," said Kate as Adam stopped the buggy.
                        "Put my telescope in the back with the horse feed. Since you have
                        it, I don't need ask whether I am the Prodigal Daughter or not. I
                        see clearly I am."
                    Nancy Ellen was worried, until she was pale.
                    "Kate," she said, "I never have seen Father so
                        angry in all my life. I thought last night that in a day or two I could
                        switch the school over to Serena Woodruff, and go on with my plans, but
                        Father said at breakfast if the Bates name was to stand for anything
                        approaching honour, a Bates would teach that school this winter or
                        he'd know the reason why. And you know how easy it is to change
                        him. Oh, Kate, won't you see if that Walden trustee can't
                        possibly find another teacher, and let you off.  I know Robert will be disappointed, for he's rented his office
                        and bought a house and he said last night to get ready as soon after
                        Christmas as I could. Oh, Kate, won't you see if you can't
                        possibly get that man to hire another teacher?"
                    "Why, Nancy Ellen" said Kate.
                    Nancy Ellen, with a twitching face, looked at Kate.
                    "If Robert has to wait months, there in Hartley, handsome as he is,
                        and he has to be nice to everybody to get practice, and you know how those
                        Hartley girls are"
                    "Yes, Nancy Ellen, I know," said Kate.
                        "I'll see what I can do. Is it understood that if I give
                        up the school and come back and take ours, Father will let me come
                        home?"
                    "Yes, oh, yes!" cried Nancy Ellen.
                    "Well, nothing goes on guess-work. I'll hear him say it,
                        myself," said Kate.
                    She climbed from the buggy. Nancy Ellen caught her arm.
                    "Don't go in there! Don't you go there,"
                        she cried. "He'll throw the first thing he can pick up at
                        you. Mother says he hasn't been asleep all night."
                    "Pooh!" said Kate. "How childish! I want to hear
                        him say that, and he'll scarcely kill me."
                    She walked swiftly to the side door.
                    "Father," she said, "Nancy Ellen is afraid she
                        will lose Robert Gray if she has to put off her marriage for
                        months"
                    
                    Kate stepped back quickly as a chair crashed against the door facing. She
                        again came into view and continued"so she asked me if I would get
                        out of my school and come back if I could"Kate dodged another
                        chair; when she appeared again"To save the furniture, of which we
                        have none too much, I'll just step inside," she said. When
                        her father started toward her, she started around the dining table, talking
                        as fast as she could, he lunging after her like a furious bull.
                        "She asked me to come back and teach the schoolto keep her from
                        putting off her weddingbecause she is afraid to If I can break my contract
                        theremay I come back and help her out here?"
                    The pace was going more swiftly each round, it was punctuated at that instant
                        by a heavy meat platter aimed at Kate's head. She saw it picked up,
                        and swayed so it missed.
                    "I guess that is answer enough for me," she panted, racing
                        on. "A lovely father you areno wonder your daughters are dishonest
                        through fear of youno wonder your wife has no mind of her ownno wonder your
                        sons hate you and wish you would dieso they could have their deeds and be
                        like meninstead of 'spanked school-boys' as they feel
                        nowno wonder the whole posse of us hate you."
                    Directly opposite the door Kate caught the table and drew it with her to bar
                        the opening. As it crashed against the casings half the dishes flew to the
                        floor in a heap. When Adam Bates pulled it from his path he stepped in  a dish of fried potatoes and fell heavily.
                        Kate reached the road, climbed in the buggy, and said to Nancy Ellen:
                        "You'd better hide! Cut a bundle of stuff and send it to
                        me by Adam and I'll sew my fingers to the bone for you every night.
                        Now drive like sin, Adam!"
                    As Adam Bates came lurching down the walk in fury the buggy dashed past and
                        Kate had not even time to turn her head to see what happened.
                    "Take the first turn," she said to Adam.
                        "I've done an awful thing."
                    "What did you do?" cried the boy.
                    "Asked him as nicely as I could; but he threw a chair at me.
                        Something funny happened to me, and I wasn't afraid of him at all.
                        I dodged it and finished what I was saying, and another chair came, so the
                        two Bates went at it."
                    "Oh, Kate, what did you do?" cried Adam.
                    "Went inside and ran around the dining table while I told him what
                        all his sons and daughters think of him. 'Spanked
                        school-boys' and all"
                    "Did you tell him my father said that?" he demanded.
                    "No. I had more sense left than that," said Kate.
                        "I only said all his boys felt like that. Then I
                        pulled the table after me to block the door, and smashed half the dishes and
                        he slipped in the fried potatoes and went down with a crash"
                    "Bloody Murder!" cried young Adam, aghast.
                    "Me, too!" said Kate. "I'll never step in
                        that house again while he lives. I've spilled the beans,
                        now."
                    
                    "That you have," said Adam, slacking his horse to glance
                        back. "He is standing in the middle of the road shaking his fist
                        after you."
                    "Can you see Nancy Ellen?" asked Kate.
                    "No. She must have climbed the garden fence and hidden behind the
                        privet bush."
                    "Well, she better make it a good long hide, until he has had plenty
                        of time to cool off. He'd have killed me if he had caught me, after
                        he felland wasted all those potatoes already cooked"
                    Kate laughed a dry hysterical laugh, but the boy sat white-faced and awed.
                    "Never mind," said Kate, seeing how frightened he was.
                        "When he has had plenty of time he'll cool off; but
                        he'll never get over it. I hope he doesn't beat Mother,
                        because I was born."
                    "Oh, drat such a man!" said young Adam. "I hope
                        something worse than this happens to him. If ever I see Father begin to be
                        the least bit like him as he grows older I shall"
                    "Well, what shall you do?" asked Kate, as he paused.
                    "Tell Ma!" cried young Adam, emphatically.
                    Kate leaned her face in her hands and laughed. When she could speak she said:
                        "Do you know, Adam, I think that would be the very best thing you
                        could do."
                    "Why, of course!" said Adam.
                    They drove swiftly and reached Walden before ten o'clock. There they
                        inquired their way to the home of the Trustee, but Kate said nothing about
                        giving up the  school. She merely made a few
                        inquiries, asked for the key of the schoolhouse, and about boarding places.
                        She was directed to four among which she might choose.
                    "Where would you advise me to go?" she asked the Trustee.
                    "Well, now, folks differ," said he. "All those
                        folks is neighbours of mine and some might like one, and some might like
                        another, best. I could say this: I think Means would be
                        the cheapest, Knowls the dearest, but the last teacher was a good one,
                        an' she seemed well satisfied with the Widder Holt."
                    "I see," said Kate, smiling.
                    Then she and young Adam investigated the school-house and found it far better
                        than any either of them had ever been inside. It promised every comfort and
                        convenience, compared with schools to which they had been accustomed, so
                        they returned the keys, inquired about the cleaning of the building, and
                        started out to find a boarding place. First they went to the cheapest, but
                        it could be seen at a glance that it was too cheap, so they eliminated that.
                        Then they went to the most expensive, but it was obvious from the house and
                        grounds that board there would be more than Kate would want to pay.
                    "I'd like to save my digestion, and have a place in which
                        to study, where I won't freeze," said Kate, "but
                        I want to board as cheaply as I can. This morning changes my plans
                        materially. I shall want to go to school next summer part of the time, but
                        the part I do not, I shall have to pay my way, so I mustn't spend
                        money  as I thought I would. Not one of you
                        will dare be caught doing a thing for me. To make you safe I'll
                        stay away, but it will cost me money that I'd hoped to have for
                        clothes like other girls."
                    "It's too bad," said Adam, "but
                        I'll stick to you, and so will Ma."
                    "Of course you will, you dear boy," said Kate.
                        "Now let's try our third place; it is not far from
                        here."
                    Soon they found the house, but Kate stopped short on sight of it.
                    "Adam, there has been little in life to make me
                        particular," she said, "but I draw the line at that house.
                        I would go crazy in a house painted bright red with brown and blue
                        decoration. It should be prohibited by law. Let us hunt up the Widder Holt
                        and see how her taste in colour runs."
                    "The joke is on you," said Adam, when they had found the
                        house.
                    It was near the school, on a wide shady street across which big maples locked
                        branches. There was a large lot filled with old fruit trees and long grass,
                        with a garden at the back. The house was old and low, having a small porch
                        in front, but if it ever had seen paint, it did not show it at that time. It
                        was a warm linty gray, the shingles of the old roof almost moss-covered.
                    "The joke is on me," said Kate.
                        "I shall have no quarrel with the paint here, and will you look at
                        that?"
                    Adam looked where Kate pointed across the street, and nodded.
                    
                    "That ought to be put in a gold frame," he said.
                    "I think so, too," said Kate. "I
                        shouldn't be a bit surprised if I stay where I can see
                        it."
                    They were talking of a deep gully facing the house and running to a levee
                        where the street crossed. A stream ran down it, dipped under a culvert,
                        turned sharply, and ran away to a distant river, spanning which they could
                        see the bridge. Tall old forest trees lined the banks, shrubs and bushes
                        grew in a thicket. There were swaying, clambering vines and a babel of bird
                        notes over the seed and berry bearing bushes.
                    "Let's go inside, and if we agree, then we will get some
                        water and feed the horse and eat our lunch over there," said Kate.
                    "Just the thing!" said young Adam. "Come and we
                        will proceed to the residence of Mrs. Holt and investigate her
                        possibilities. How do you like that?"
                    "That is fine," said Kate gravely.
                    "It is," said Adam, promptly, "because it is Ma.
                        And whatever is Ma, is right."
                    "Good for you!" cried Kate. "I am going to break a
                        Bates record and kiss you good-bye, when you go. I probably shan't
                        have another in years. Come on."
                    They walked up the grassy wooden walk, stepped on the tiny, vine-covered
                        porch, and lifted and dropped a rusty old iron knocker. Almost at once the
                        door opened, to reveal a woman of respectable appearance, a trifle past
                        middle age. She made Kate think of dried sage because she had a dried-out
                        look and her complexion,  hair, and eyes were
                        all that colour. She was neat and clean while the hall into which she
                        invited them was clean and had a wholesome odour. Kate explained her errand.
                        Mrs. Holt breathed a sigh of relief.
                    "Well, thank goodness I was before-handed," she said.
                        "The teacher stayed here last year and she was satisfied, so I ast
                        the Trustee to mention me to the new teacher. Nobody was expecting you until
                        the last of the week, but I says to myself, 'always take time by
                        the fetlock, Samantha, always be ready'; so last week I put in
                        scouring my spare room to beat the nation, and it's all ready
                        so's you can walk right in."
                    "Thank you," said Kate, rather resenting the assumption
                        that she was to have no option in the matter. "I have four places
                        on my list where they want the teacher, so I thought I would look at each of
                        them and then decide."
                    "My, ain't we choicey!" said Mrs. Holt in sneering
                        tones. Then she changed instantly, and in suave commendation went on:
                        "That's exactly right. That's the very thing fer
                        you to do. After you have seen what Walden has to offer, then a pretty young
                        thing like you can make up your mind where you will have the most quiet fer
                        your work, the best room, and be best fed. One of the greatest advantages
                        here fer a teacher is that she can be quiet, an' not have her room
                        rummaged. Every place else that takes boarders there's a lot of
                        children; here there is only me and my son, and he is grown and will be off
                        to his medical work next week fer the year, so all your  working time here, you'd be alone with me. This is the
                        room."
                    "That surely would be a great advantage, because I have much
                        studying to do," said Kate as they entered the room.
                    With one glance, she liked it. It was a large room with low ceiling, quaintly
                        papered in very old creamy paper, scattered with delicately cut green
                        leaves, but so carefully had the room been kept, that it was still clean.
                        There were four large windows to let in light and air, freshly washed white
                        curtains hanging over the deep green shades. The floor was carpeted with a
                        freshly washed rag carpet stretched over straw, the bed was invitingly clean
                        and looked comfortable, there was a wash stand with bowl and pitcher, soap
                        and towels, a small table with a lamp, a straight-backed chair and a rocking
                        chair. Mrs. Holt opened a large closet having hooks for dresses at one end
                        and shelves at the other. On the top of these there were a comfort and a
                        pair of heavy blankets.
                    "Your winter covers," said Mrs. Holt, indicating these,
                        "and there is a good stove I take out in summer to make more room,
                        and set up as soon as it gets cold, and that is a wood box."
                    She pointed out a shoe box covered with paper similar to that on the walls.
                    Kate examined the room carefully, the bed, the closet, and tried the chairs.
                        Behind the girl, Mrs. Holt, with compressed lips, forgetting Adam's
                        presence, watched in evident disapproval.
                    
                    "I want to see the stove," said Kate.
                    "It is out in the woodhouse. It hasn't been cleaned up for
                        the winter yet."
                    "Then it won't be far away. Let's look at
                        it."
                    Almost wholly lacking experience, Kate was proceeding by instinct in exactly
                        the same way her father would have taken through experience. Mrs. Holt
                        hesitated, then turned: "Oh, very well," she said, leading
                        the way down the hall, through the dining room, which was older in
                        furnishing and much more worn, but still clean and wholesome, as were the
                        small kitchen and back porch. From it there was only a step to the
                        woodhouse, where on a little platform across one end sat two small stoves
                        for burning wood, one so small as to be tiny. Kate walked to the larger,
                        lifted the top, looked inside, tried the dampers and drafts and turning
                        said: "That is very small. It will require more wood than a larger
                        one."
                    Mrs. Holt indicated dry wood corded to the roof.
                    "We git all our wood from the thicket across the way. That little
                        strip an' this lot is all we have left of father's farm.
                        We kept this to live on, and sold the rest for town lots, all except that
                        gully, which we couldn't give away. But I must say I like the trees
                        and birds better than mebby I'd like people who might live there;
                        we always git our wood from it, and the shade an' running water
                        make it the coolest place in town."
                    "Yes, I suppose they do," said Kate.
                    She took one long look at everything as they returned to the hall.
                    
                    "The Trustee told me your terms are four dollars and fifty cents a
                        week, furnishing food and wood," she said, "and that you
                        allowed the last teacher to do her own washing on Saturday, for nothing. Is
                        that right?"
                    The thin lips drew more tightly. Mrs. Holt looked at Kate from head to foot
                        in close scrutiny.
                    "I couldn't make enough to pay the extra work at
                        that," she said. "I ought to have a dollar more, to really
                        come out even. I'll have to say five-fifty this fall."
                    "If that is the case, good-bye," said Kate. "Thank
                        you very much for showing me. Five-fifty is what I paid at Normal, it is
                        more than I can afford in a village like this."
                    She turned away, followed by Adam. They crossed the street, watered the horse
                        at the stream, placed his food conveniently for him, and taking their lunch
                        box, seated themselves on a grassy place on the bank and began eating.
                    "Wasn't that a pretty nice room?" asked Adam.
                        "Didn't you kind of hate to give it up."
                    "I haven't the slightest intention of giving it
                        up," answered Kate. "That woman is a skin-flint and I
                        don't propose to let her beat me. No doubt she was glad to get
                        four-fifty last fall. She's only trying to see if she can wring me
                        for a dollar more. If I have to board all next summer, I shall have to watch
                        every penny, or I'll not come out even, let alone saving anything.
                        I'll wager you a nickel that before we leave, she comes over here
                        and offers me the room at the same price she got last winter."
                    
                    "I hope you are right," said Adam. "How do you
                        like her?"
                    "Got a grouch, nasty temper, mean disposition; clean house, good
                        room, good cookmaybe; lives just on the edge of comfort by daily
                        skimping," summarized Kate.
                    "If she comes, are you going to try it?" asked Adam.
                    "Yes, I think I shall. It is nearest my purse and requirements and
                        if the former teacher stayed there, it will seem all right for me; but she
                        isn't going to put that little stove in my room. It
                        wouldn't heat the closet. How did you like her?"
                    "Not much!" said Adam, promptly. "If glaring at
                        your back could have killed you, you would have fallen dead when you
                        examined the closet, and bedding, and stove. She honeyed up when she had to,
                        but she was mad as hops. I nearly bursted right out when she talked about
                        'taking time by the fetlock.' I wanted to tell her she
                        looked like she had, and almost got the life kicked out of her doing it, but
                        I thought I'd better not."
                    Kate laughed. "Yes, I noticed," she said, "but I
                        dared not look at you. I was afraid you'd laugh. Isn't
                        this a fine lunch?"
                    "Bet your life it is," said Adam. "Ma never puts
                        up any other kind."
                    "I wish someone admired me as much as you do your mother,
                        Adam," said Kate.
                    "Well, you be as nice as Ma, and somebody is sure to," said
                        he.
                    "But I never could," said Kate.
                    
                    "Oh, yes, you could," said Adam, "if you would
                        only set yourself to do it and try with all your might to be like her. Look,
                        quick! That must be her 'Medical Course' man!"
                    Kate glanced across the way and saw a man she thought to be about thirty
                        years of age. He did not resemble his mother in any particular, if he was
                        the son of Mrs. Holt. He was above the average man in height, having broad,
                        rather stooping shoulders, dark hair and eyes. He stopped at the gate and
                        stood a few seconds looking at them, so they could not very well study him
                        closely, then he went up the walk with loose, easy stride and entered the
                        house.
                    "Yes, that is her son," said Kate. "That is
                        exactly the way a man enters a house that belongs to him."
                    "That isn't the way I am going to enter my house,"
                        said Adam. "Now what shall we do?"
                    "Rest half an hour while they talk it over, and then get ready to go
                        very deliberately. If she doesn't come across, literally and
                        figuratively, we hunt another boarding place."
                    "I half believe she will come," said Adam. "She is
                        watching us; I can see her pull back the blind of her room to
                        peep."
                    "Keep looking ahead. Don't let her think you see her.
                        Let's go up the creek and investigate this ravine. Isn't
                        it a lovely place?"
                    "Yes. I'm glad you got it," said Adam,
                        "that is, if she comes across. I will think of you as having it to
                        look  at in summer; and this wintermy, what
                        rabbit hunting there will be, and how pretty it will look!"
                    So they went wandering up the ravine, sometimes on one bank, sometimes
                        crossing stepping-stones or logs to the other, looking, talking, until fully
                        an hour had passed when they returned to the buggy. Adam began changing the
                        halter for the bridle while Kate shook out the lap robe.
                    "Nickel, please," whispered Kate.
                    Adam glanced across the street to see Mrs. Holt coming. She approached them
                        and with no preliminaries said: "I have been telling my son about
                        you an' he hates so bad to go away and leave me alone for the
                        winter, that he says to take you at the same as the last teacher, even if I
                        do lose money on it."
                    "Oh, you wouldn't do that, Mrs. Holt," said Kate,
                        carelessly. "Of course it is for you to decide. I like the room,
                        and if the board was right for the other teacher it will be for me. If you
                        want me to stay, I'll bring my things over and take the room at
                        once. If not, I'll look farther."
                    "Come right over," said Mrs. Holt, cordially. "I
                        am anxious to git on the job of mothering such a sweet young lady. What will
                        you have for your supper?"
                    "Whatever you are having," said Kate, "I am not
                        accustomed to ordering my meals. Adam, come and help me unpack."
                    In half an hour Kate had her dresses on the hooks, her underclothing on the
                        shelves, her books on the table, her pencils and pen in the robin cup, and
                        was saying good-bye  to Adam and telling him
                        what to tell his father, mother, and Nancy Ellenif he could get a stolen
                        interview with her on the way home. He also promised to write Kate what
                        happened about the home school and everything in which she would be
                        interested. Then she went back to her room, sat in the comfortable rocking
                        chair, and with nothing in the world she was obliged to do immediately, she
                        stared at the opposite wall and day by day reviewed the summer. She sat so
                        long and stared at the wall so intently that gradually it dissolved and
                        shaped into the deep green ravine across the way, which sank into soothing
                        darkness and then slowly lightened until a peep of gold came over the tree
                        tops; and then, a red sun crept up having a big wonderful wide-spread wing
                        on each side of it. Kate's head fell with a jerk which awakened
                        her, so she arose, removed her dress, washed and brushed her hair, put on a
                        fresh dress and taking a book, she crossed the street and sat on the bank of
                        the stream again, which she watched instead of reading, as she had
                    intended.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    KATE'S PRIVATE PUPIL
                    
                    
                        AT FIRST Kate merely sat in a pleasant place and allowed
                        her nerves to settle, after the short nap she had enjoyed in the rocking
                        chair. It was such a novel experience for her to sit idle, that despite the
                        attractions of growing things, running water, and singing birds, she soon
                        veered to thoughts of what she would be doing if she were at home, and that
                        brought her to the fact that she was forbidden her father's house;
                        so if she might not go there, she was homeless. As she had known her father
                        for nearly nineteen years, for she had a birth anniversary coming in a few
                        days, she felt positive that he never would voluntarily see her again, while
                        with his constitution, he would live for years. She might as well face the
                        fact that she was homeless; and prepare to pay her way all the year round.
                        She wondered why she felt so forlorn and what made the dull ache in her
                        throat.
                    She remembered telling Nancy Ellen before going away to Normal that she
                        wished her father would drive her from home. Now that was accomplished. She
                        was away from home, in a place where there was not one familiar face,
                        object, or plan of life, but she did not wish for it at  all. She devoutly wished that she were back at home even if she
                        were preparing supper, in order that Nancy Ellen might hem towels. She
                        wondered what they were saying: her mind was crystal clear as to what they
                        were doing. She wondered if Nancy Ellen would send Adam, 3d, with a parcel
                        of cut-out sewing for her to work on. She resolved to sew quickly and with
                        stitches of machine-like evenness, if it came. She wondered if Nancy Ellen
                        would be compelled to put off her wedding and teach the home school in order
                        that it might be taught by a Bates, as her father had demanded. She wondered
                        if Nancy Ellen was forced to this uncongenial task, whether it would sour
                        the wonderful sweetness developed by her courtship, and make her so provoked
                        that she would not write or have anything to do with her. They were nearly
                        the same age; they had shared rooms, and, until recently, beds, and whatever
                        life brought them; now Kate lifted her head and ran her hand against her
                        throat to ease the ache gathering there more intensely every minute. With
                        eyes that did not see, she sat staring at the sheer walls of the ravine as
                        it ran toward the east, where the water came tumbling and leaping down over
                        stones and shale bed. When at last she arose she had learned one lesson, not
                        in the History she carried. No matter what its disadvantages are, having a
                        home of any kind is vastly preferable to having none. And the casualness of
                        people so driven by the demands of living and money making that they do not
                        take time even to be slightly courteous and kind, no matter how
                        objectionable it may be, still that, even 
                        that, is better than their active displeasure. So she sat brooding and going
                        over and over the summer, arguing her side of the case, honestly trying to
                        see theirs, until she was mentally exhausted and still had accomplished
                        nothing further than arriving at the conclusion that if Nancy Ellen was
                        forced to postpone her wedding she would turn against her and influence
                        Robert Gray in the same feeling.
                    Then Kate thought of Him. She capitalized him in her thought, for after
                        nineteen years of Bates men Robert Gray would seem a deified creature to
                        their women. She reviewed the scene at the crossing log, while her face
                        flushed with pleasure. If she had remained at home and had gone after the
                        blackberries, as it was sure as fate that she would have done, then she
                        would have met him first, and he would have courted her instead of Nancy
                        Ellen. Suddenly Kate shook herself savagely and sat straight. "Why,
                        you big fool!" she said. "Nancy Ellen went to the berry
                        patch in a pink dress, wearing a sunbonnet to match, and carrying a blue
                        bowl. Think of the picture she made! But if I had gone, I'd have
                        been in a ragged old dirt-coloured gingham, Father's boots, and his
                        old straw hat jammed down to my ears; I'd have been hot and in a
                        surly temper, rebelling because I had the berries to pick. He would have
                        taken one look at me, jumped the fence, and run to Lang's for dear
                        life. Better cut that idea right out!"
                    So Kate "cut that idea out" at once, but the operation was
                        painful, because when one turns mental surgeon and  operates on the ugly spots in one's disposition, there
                        is no anaesthetic, nor is the work done with skilful hands, so the wounds
                        are numerous and leave ugly scars; but Kate was ruthless. She resolved never
                        to think of that brook scene again. In life, as she had lived it, she would
                        not have profited by having been first at the berry patch. Yet she had a
                        right to think of Robert Gray's face, grave in concern for her, his
                        offers to help, the influence he would have in her favour with Nancy Ellen.
                        Of course if he was forced to postpone his wedding he would not be pleased;
                        but it was impossible that the fears which were tormenting Nancy Ellen would
                        materialize into action on his part. No sane man loved a woman as beautiful
                        as her sister and cast her aside because of a few months' enforced
                        waiting, the cause of which he so very well knew; but it would make both of
                        them unhappy and change their beautiful plans, after he even had found and
                        purchased the house. Still Nancy Ellen said that her father was making it a
                        point of honour that a Bates should teach the school, because he had signed
                        the contract for Kate to take the place Nancy Ellen had intended to fill,
                        and then changed her plans. He had sworn that a Bates should teach the
                        school. Well, Hiram had taken the county examination, as all pupils of the
                        past ten years had when they finished the country schools. It was a test
                        required to prove whether they had done their work well. Hiram held a
                        certificate for a year, given him by the County Superintendent, when he
                        passed the examinations. He had never used it. He could teach; he was Nancy
                             Ellen's twin. School did not
                        begin until the first of November. He could hire help with his corn if he
                        could not finish alone. He could arise earlier than usual and do his feeding
                        and milking; he could clean the stables and haul wood on Saturday and
                        Sunday, if he must, for the Bates family looked on Sunday more as a day of
                        rest for the horses and physical man than as one of religious observances.
                        They always worked if there was anything to be gained by it. Six months
                        being the term, he would be free by the first of May; surely the money would
                        be an attraction, while Nancy Ellen could coach him on any new methods she
                        had learned at Normal. Kate sprang to her feet, ran across the street, and
                        entering the hall, hurried to her room. She found Mrs. Holt there in the act
                        of closing her closet door. Kate looked at her with astonished eyes.
                    "I was just telling my son," Mrs. Holt said rather
                        breathlessly, "that I would take a peep and see if I had forgot to
                        put your extra covers on the shelf."
                    Kate threw her book on the bed and walked to the table. She had experienced
                        her share of battle for the day. "No children to rummage,"
                        passed through her brain. It was the final week of hot, dry August weather,
                        while a point had been made of calling her attention to the extra cover when
                        the room had been shown her. She might have said these things, but why say
                        them? The shamed face of the woman convicted her of
                        "rummaging," as she had termed it. Without a word Kate sat
                        down beside the table, drew her writing material  before her, and began addressing an envelope to her brother
                        Hiram. Mrs. Holt left the room, disliking Kate more than if she had said
                        what the woman knew she thought.
                    Kate wrote briefly, convincingly, covering every objection and every
                        advantage she could conceive, and then she added the strongest plea she
                        could make. What Hiram would do, she had no idea. As with all Bates men,
                        land was his God, but it required money to improve it. He would feel timid
                        about making a first attempt to teach after he was married and the father of
                        a child, but Nancy Ellen's marriage would furnish plausible excuse;
                        all of the family had done their school work as perfectly as all work they
                        undertook; he could teach if he wanted to; would he want to? If he did, at
                        least, she would be sure of the continued friendship of her sister and
                        Robert Gray. Suddenly Kate understood what that meant to her as she had not
                        realized before. She was making long strides toward understanding herself,
                        which is the most important feature of any life.
                    She sent a line of pleading to her sister-in-law, a word of love to the baby,
                        and finishing her letter, started to post it, as she remembered the office
                        was only a few steps down the street. In the hall it occurred to her that
                        she was the "Teacher" now, and so should be an example.
                        Possibly the women of Walden did not run bareheaded down the street on
                        errands. She laid the letter on a small shelf of an old hatrack, and stepped
                        back to her room to put on her hat. Her return was so immediate that Mrs.
                             Holt had the letter in her fingers when
                        Kate came back, and was reading the address so intently, that with extended
                        hand, the girl said in cold tones: "My letter, please!"
                        before the woman realized she was there. Their eyes met in a level look.
                        Mrs. Holt's mouth opened in ready excuse, but this time
                        Kate's temper overcame her better judgment.
                    "Can you read it clearly, without your glasses?" she asked
                        politely. "I wouldn't for the world have you make a
                        mistake as to whom my letter is addressed. It goes to my brother Hiram
                        Bates, youngest son of Adam Bates, Bates Corners, Hartley,
                        Indiana."
                    "I was going to give it to my son, so that he could take it to the
                        office," said Mrs. Holt.
                    "And I am going to take it myself, as I know your son is down town
                        and I want it to go over on the evening hack, so it will be sure to go out
                        early in the morning."
                    Surprise overcame Mrs. Holt's discomfiture.
                    "Land sakes!" she cried. "Bates is such a common
                        name it didn't mean a thing to me. Be you a daughter of Adam Bates,
                        the Land King, of Bates Corners?"
                    "I be," said Kate tersely.
                    "Well, I never! All them hundreds of acres of land an'
                        money in the bank an' mortgages on half his neighbours. Whut the
                        nation! An' no more or better clo's an' you got!
                        An' teachin' school! I never heard of the like in all my
                        days!"
                    "If you have Bates history down so fine, you should know that every
                        girl of the entire Bates family has taught from the time she finished school
                        until she married. Also  we never buy more
                        clothing than we need, or of the kind not suitable for our work. This may
                        explain why we own some land and have a few cents in the Bank. My letter,
                        please."
                    Kate turned and went down the street, a dull red tingeing her face.
                        "I could hate that woman cordially without half trying,"
                        she said.
                    The house was filled with the odour of cooking food when she returned and
                        soon she was called to supper. As she went to the chair indicated for her, a
                        step was heard in the hall. Kate remained standing and when a young man
                        entered the room Mrs. Holt at once introduced her son, George. He did not
                        take the trouble to step around the table and shake hands, but muttered a
                        gruff "howdy do?" and seating himself, at once picked up
                        the nearest dish and began filling his plate.
                    His mother would have had matters otherwise. "Why, George,"
                        she chided. "What's your hurry? Why don't you
                        brush up and wait on Miss Bates first?"
                    "Oh, if she is going to be one of the family," he said,
                        "she will have to learn to get on without much polly-foxing. Grub
                        is to eat. We can all reach at a table of this size."
                    Kate looked at George Holt with a searching glance. Surely he was almost
                        thirty, of average height, appeared strong, and as if he might have a
                        forceful brain; but he was loosely jointed and there was a trace of
                        domineering selfishness on his face that was repulsive to her. "I
                        could hate that man cordially, without half
                        trying," she thought to herself, smiling faintly at the thought.
                    
                    The sharp eyes of Mrs. Holt detected the smile. She probably would have
                        noticed it, if Kate had merely thought of smiling.
                    "Why do you smile, my dear?" she asked in melting tone.
                    "Oh, I was feeling so at home," answered Kate, suavely.
                        "Father and the boys hold exactly those opinions and practise them
                        in precisely the same way; only if I were to think about it at all, I should
                        think that a man within a year of finishing a medical course would begin
                        exercising politeness with every woman he meets. I believe a doctor depends
                        on women to be most of his patients, and women don't like a rude
                        doctor."
                    "Rot!" said George Holt.
                    "Miss Bates is exactly right," said his mother.
                        "Ain't I been tellin' you the whole
                        endurin' time that you'd never get a call unless you
                        practised manners as well as medicine? Ain't I, now?"
                    "Yes, you have," he said, angrily. "But if you
                        think all of a sudden that manners are so essential, why didn't you
                        hammer some into me when you had the whip hand and could do what you
                        pleased? You didn't find any fault with my manners, then."
                    "How of all the world was I to know that you'd grow up and
                        go in for doctorin'? I s'pos'd then
                        you'd take the farm an' run it like your pa did, stead of
                        forcin' me to sell it off by inches to live, an' then you
                        wastin' half the money."
                    
                    "Go it, Mother," said George Holt, rudely. "Tell
                        all you know, and then piece out with anything you can think of that you
                        don't."
                    Mrs. Holt's face flushed crimson. She looked at Kate and said
                        vindictively: "If you want any comfort in life, never marry and
                        bring a son inter the world. You kin humour him, and cook for him, an work
                        your hands to the bone fur him, and sell your land, and spend all you can
                        raise educatin' him for half a dozen things, an' him never
                        stickin to none or payin' back a cent, but sass in your old
                        age"
                    "Go it, Mother, you're doing fine!" said George.
                        "If you keep on Miss Bates will want to change her boarding place
                        before morning."
                    "It will not be wholly your mother's fault, if I
                        do," said Kate. "I would suggest that if we can't
                        speak civilly, we eat our supper in silence. This is very good food; I could
                        enjoy it, if I had a chance."
                    She helped herself to another soda biscuit and a second piece of fried
                        chicken and calmly began eating them.
                    "That's a good idy!" said Mrs. Holt.
                    "Then why don't you practise it?" said her son.
                    Thereupon began a childish battle for the last word. Kate calmly arose,
                        picked up her plate, walked from the room, down the hall, and entering her
                        own room, closed the door quietly.
                    "You fool! You great big dunderheaded fool!" cried Mrs.
                        Holt. "Now you have done it, for the thousandth time. She will
                        start out in less than no time to find some 
                        place else to stay, an' who could blame her? Don't you
                        know who she is? Ain't you sense in your head? If there was ever a
                        girl you ort to go after, and go quick an' hard, there she
                        is!"
                    "What? That big beef! What for?" asked George.
                    "You idjit! You idjit! Don't you sense that she's
                        a daughter of Adam Bates? Him they call the Land King. Ain't you
                        sense ner reason? Drive her from the house, will you? An' me
                        relyin' on sendin' you half her board money to help you
                        out? You fool!"
                    "Why under the Heavens didn't you tell me? How could I
                        know? No danger but the bowl is upset, and it's all your fault. She
                        should be worth ten thousand, maybe twenty!"
                    "I never knew till jist before supper. I got it frum a letter she
                        wrote to her brother. I'd no chanct to tell you. Course I meant to,
                        first chanct I had; but you go to work an upset everything before I get a
                        chanct. You never did amount to anything, an' you never
                        will."
                    "Oh, well, now stop that. I didn't know. I thought she was
                        just common truck. I'll fix it up with her right after supper. Now
                        shut up."
                    "You can't do it! It's gone too far.
                        She'll leave the house inside fifteen minutes," said Mrs.
                        Holt.
                    "Well, I'll just show you," he boasted.
                    George Holt pushed back his plate, wiped his mouth, brushed his teeth at the
                        washing place on the back porch, and sauntered around the house to seat
                        himself on the front porch steps. Kate saw him there and remained  in her room. When he had waited an hour he
                        arose and tapped on her door. Kate opened it.
                    "Miss Bates," he said. "I have been doing penance
                        an hour. I am very sorry I was such a boor. I was in earnest when I said I
                        didn't get the gad when I needed it. I had a big disappointment
                        to-day, and I came in sore and cross. I am ashamed of myself, but you will
                        never see me that way again. I know I will make a failure of my profession
                        if I don't be more polite than Mother ever taught me to be.
                        Won't you let me be your scholar, too? Please do come over to the
                        ravine where it is cool and give me my first lesson. I need you
                        dreadfully."
                    Kate was desperately in need of human companionship in that instant, herself,
                        someone who could speak, and sin, and suffer, and repent. As she looked
                        straight in the face of the man before her she saw, not him being rude and
                        quarrelling pettily with his mother, but herself racing around the dining
                        table pursued by her father raving like an insane man. Who was she to judge
                        or to refuse help when it was asked? She went with him; and Mrs. Holt,
                        listening and peering from the side of the window blind of her room across
                        the hall, watched them cross the road and sit beside each other on the bank
                        of the ravine in what seemed polite and amicable conversation. So she heaved
                        a deep sigh of relief and went to wash the dishes and plan breakfast.
                        "Better feed her up pretty well 'til she gits the habit of
                        staying here and mebby the rest who take boarders will be full,"
                        she said to herself.  "Time enough to
                        go at skimpin' when she's sett--- and
                        busy, an' I get the whip hand."
                    But in planning to get the "whip hand" Mrs. Holt reckoned
                        without Kate. She had been under the whip hand all her life. Her dash for
                        freedom had not been accomplished without both mental and physical hurt. She
                        was doing nothing but going over her past life minutely, and as she realized
                        more fully with each review how barren and unlovely it had been, all the
                        strength and fresh young pride in her arose in imperative demand for
                        something better in the future. She listened with interest to what George
                        Holt said to her. All her life she had been driven by a man of inflexible
                        will, his very soul inoculated with greed for possessions which would give
                        him power; his body endowed with unfailing strength to meet the demands he
                        made on it, and his heart wholly lacking in sentiment; but she did not
                        propose to start her new life by speaking of her family to strangers. George
                        Holt's experiences had been those of a son spoiled by a weak woman,
                        one day petted, the next bribed, the next nagged, again left to his own
                        devices for days, with strong inherited tendencies to be fought, tendencies
                        to what he did not say. Looking at his heavy jaw and swarthy face, Kate
                        supplied "temper" and "not much inclination to
                        work." He had asked her to teach him, she would begin by setting
                        him an example in the dignity of self-control; then she would make him work.
                        How she would make that big, strong man work! As she sat there on the bank
                        of the ravine, with a background of delicately leafed bushes and 
                         light of the setting sun on her face and her hair, George Holt
                        studied her closely, mentally and physically, and would have given all he
                        possessed if he had not been so hasty. He saw that she had a good brain and
                        courage to follow her convictions, while on closer study he decided that she
                        was moulded on the finest physical lines of any woman he ever had seen, also
                        his study of medicine taught him to recognize glowing health, and to set a
                        right estimate on it. Truly he was sorry, to the bottom of his soul, but he
                        did not believe in being too humble. He said as much in apology as he felt
                        forced, and then set himself the task of calling out and parading the level
                        best he could think up concerning himself, or life in general. He had tried
                        farming, teaching, merchandise, and law before he had decided his vocation
                        was medicine.
                    On account of Robert Gray, Kate was much interested in this, but when she
                        asked what college he was attending, he said he was going to a school in
                        Chicago that was preparing to revolutionize the world of medicine. Then he
                        started on a hobby that he had ridden for months, paying for the privilege,
                        so Kate learned with surprise and no small dismay that in a few months a man
                        could take a course in medicine that would enable him "to cure any
                        ill to which the human flesh is heir," as he expressed it, without
                        knowing anything of surgery, or drugs, or using either. Kate was amazed and
                        said so at once. She disconcertingly inquired what he would do with patients
                        who had sustained fractured skulls, developed cancers, or been exposed to
                        smallpox. But the man before her  proposed to
                        deal with none of those disagreeable things, or their like. He was going to
                        make fame and fortune in the world by treating mental and muscular troubles.
                        He was going to be a Zonoletic Doctor. He turned teacher and spelled it for
                        her, because she never had heard the word. Kate looked at George Holt long
                        and with intense interest, while her mind was busy with new thoughts. On her
                        pillow that night she decided that if she were a man, driven by a desire to
                        heal the suffering of the world, she would be the man who took the long
                        exhaustive course of training that enabled him to deal with accidents,
                        contagions, and germ developments.
                    He looked at her with keen appreciation of her physical freshness and mental
                        strength, and manoeuvred patiently toward the point where he would dare ask
                        blankly how many there were in her family, and on exactly how many acres her
                        father paid tax. He decided it would not do for at least a week yet;
                        possibly he could raise the subject casually with someone down town who
                        would know, so that he need never ask her at all. Whatever the answer might
                        be, it was definitely settled in his own mind that Kate was the best chance
                        he had ever had, or probably ever would have. He mapped out his campaign.
                        This week, before he must go, he would be her pupil and her slave. The
                        holiday week he would be her lover. In the spring he would propose, and in
                        the fall he would marry her, and live on the income from her land ever
                        afterward. It was a glowing prospect; so glowing that he seriously
                        considered stopping school at once so that he could be at  the courting part of his campaign three times
                        a day and every evening. He was afraid to leave for fear people of the
                        village would tell the truth about him. He again studied Kate carefully and
                        decided that during the week that was coming, by deft and energetic work he
                        could so win her approval that he could make her think that she knew him
                        better than outsiders did. So the siege began.
                    Kate had decided to try making him work, to see if he would, or was
                        accustomed to it. He was sufficiently accustomed to it that he could do
                        whatever she suggested with facility that indicated practice, and there was
                        no question of his willingness. He urged her to make suggestions as to what
                        else he could do, after he had made all the needed repairs about the house
                        and premises. Kate was enjoying herself immensely, before the week was over.
                        She had another row of wood corded to the shed roof, in case the winter
                        should be severe. She had the stove she thought would warm her room polished
                        and set up while he was there to do it. She had the back porch mended and
                        the loose board in the front walk replaced. She borrowed buckets and cloths
                        and impressed George Holt for the cleaning of the school building which she
                        superintended. Before the week was over she had every child of school age
                        who came to the building to see what was going on, scouring out desks,
                        blacking stoves, raking the yard, even cleaning the street before the
                        building.
                    Across the street from his home George sawed the dead wood from the trees and
                        then, with three days to spare, Kate turned her attention to the ravine.  She thought that probably she could teach
                        better there in the spring than in the school building. She and George
                        talked it over. He raised all the objections he could think of that the
                        townspeople would, while entirely agreeing with her himself, but it was of
                        no use. She overruled the proxy objections he so kindly offered her, so he
                        was obliged to drag his tired body up the trees on both banks for several
                        hundred yards and drop the dead wood. Kate marshalled a corps of boys who
                        would be her older pupils and they dragged out the dry branches, saved all
                        that were suitable for firewood, and made bonfires from the remainder. They
                        raked the tin cans and town refuse of years from the water and banks and
                        induced the village delivery man to haul the stuff to the river bridge and
                        dump it in the deepest place in the stream. They cleaned the creek bank to
                        the water's edge and built rustic seats down the sides. They even
                        rolled boulders to the bed and set them where the water would show their
                        markings and beat itself to foam against them. Mrs. Holt looked on in
                        breathless amazement and privately expressed to her son her opinion of him
                        in terse and vigorous language. He answered laconically: "Has a
                        fish got much to say about what happens to it after you get it out of the
                        water?"
                    "No!" snapped Mrs. Holt, "and neither have you, if
                        you kill yourself to get it."
                    "Do I look killed?" inquired her son.
                    "No. You look the most like a real man I ever saw you," she
                        conceded.
                    
                    "And Kate Bates won't need glasses for forty years
                        yet," he said as he went back to his work in the ravine.
                    Kate was in the middle of the creek helping plant a big stone. He stood a
                        second watching her as she told the boys surrounding her how best to help
                        her, then he turned away, a dull red burning his cheek.
                        "I'll have her if I die for it," he muttered,
                        "but I hope to Heaven she doesn't think I am going to work
                        like this for her every day of my life."
                    As the villagers sauntered past and watched the work of the new teacher, many
                        of them thought of things at home they could do that would improve their
                        premises greatly, and a few went home and began work of like nature. That
                        made their neighbours' places look so unkempt that they were forced
                        to trim, and rake, and mend in turn, so by the time school began, the whole
                        village was busy in a crusade that extended to streets and alleys, while the
                        new teacher was the most popular person who had ever been there. Without
                        having heard of such a thing, Kate had started Civic Improvement.
                    George Holt leaned against a tree trunk and looked down at her as he rested.
                    "Do you suppose there is such a thing as ever making anything out of
                        this?" he asked.
                    "A perfectly lovely public park for the village, yes; money, selling
                        it for anything, no! It's too narrow a strip, cut too deeply with
                        the water, the banks too steep. Commercially, I can't see that it
                        is worth ten cents."
                    "Cheering! It is the only thing on earth that truly  and wholly belongs to me. The road divided
                        the land. Father willed everything on the south side to Mother, so she would
                        have the house, and the land on this side was mine. I sold off all I could
                        to Jasper Linn to add to his farm, but he would only buy to within about
                        twenty rods of the ravine. The land was too rocky and poor. So about half a
                        mile of this comprises my earthly possessions."
                    "Do you keep up the taxes?" she asked.
                    "No. I've never paid them," he said carelessly.
                    "Then don't be too sure it is yours," she said.
                        "Someone may have paid them and taken the land. You had better look
                        it up."
                    "What for?" he demanded.
                    "It is beautiful. It is the shadiest, coolest place in town. Having
                        it here doubles the value of your mother's house across the street.
                        In some way, some day, it might turn out to be worth something."
                    "I can't see how," he said.
                    "Some of these trees may become valuable when lumber gets scarcer,
                        as it will when the land grows older. Maybe a stone quarry could be opened
                        up, if the stone runs back as far as you say. A lot of things might make it
                        valuable. If I were you I would go to Hartley, quietly, to-morrow, and
                        examine the records, and if there are back taxes I'd pay
                        them."
                    "I'll look it up, anyway," he agreed.
                        "You surely have made another place of it. It will be wonderful by
                        spring."
                    
                    "I can think of many uses for it," said Kate.
                        "Here comes your mother to see how we are getting along."
                    Instead, she came to hand Kate a letter she had brought from the post office
                        while doing her marketing. Kate took the letter, saw at a glance that it was
                        from Nancy Ellen, and excusing herself, she went to one of the seats they
                        had made, and turning her face so that it could not be seen, she read: 
                            
                                
                                    DEAR KATE: You can
                                        prepare yourself for the surprise of your life. Two Bates
                                        men have done something for one of their women. I hope you
                                        will survive the shock; it almost finished me and Mother is
                                        still speechless. I won't try to prepare you, I
                                        could not. Here it is. Father raged for three days and we
                                        got out of his way like scared rabbits. I saw I had to
                                        teach, so I said I would, but I had not told Robert, because
                                        I couldn't bear to. Then up came Hiram and offered
                                        to take the school for me. Father said no, I
                                        couldn't get out of it that way. Hiram said I had
                                        not seen him or sent him any word and I could prove by
                                        mother I hadn't been away from the house, so Father
                                        believed him. He said he wanted the money to add two acres
                                        to his land from the Simms place; that would let his stock
                                        down to water on the far side of his land where it would be
                                        a great convenience and give him a better arrangement of
                                        fields so he could make more money. You know Father. He shut
                                        up like a clam and only said: "Do what you please.
                                        If a Bates teaches the school it makes my word
                                        good." So Hiram is going to teach for me. He is
                                        brushing up a little nights and I am helping him on
                                        "theory," and I am wild with joy, and so
                                        is Robert. I shall have plenty of time to do all my sewing
                                        and we shall be married at, or after, Christmas. Robert says
                                        to tell you to come to see him if you ever come to Hartley.
                                        He is there in his office now and it is lonesome, but I am
                                        busy and the time will soon pass. I might as well tell you
                                        that Father said right after you left that you should never
                                        enter his house again, and Mother and I should not speak
                                        your name before him. I do hope he gets over it before the
                                        wedding. Write me how you like your school, and where you
                                        board. Maybe Robert  and I can
                                        slip off and drive over to see you some day. But that would
                                        make Father so mad if he found it out that he would not give
                                        me the money he promised; so we had better not, but you come
                                        to see us as soon as we get in our home. Love from both,
                                    
                                        NANCY ELLEN.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Kate read the joyful letter slowly. It contained all she hoped for. She had
                        not postponed Nancy Ellen's wedding. That was all she asked. She
                        had known she would not be forgiven so soon, there was slight hope she ever
                        would. Her only chance, thought Kate, lay in marrying a farmer having about
                        a thousand acres of land. If she could do that, her father would let her
                        come home again sometime. She read the letter slowly over, then tearing it
                        in long strips she cross tore them and sifted the handful of small bits on
                        the water, where they started a dashing journey toward the river. Mrs. Holt,
                        narrowly watching her, turned with snaky gleaming eyes to her son and
                        whispered: "A-ha! Miss Smart Alec has a secret!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    HELPING NANCY ELLEN AND ROBERT TO ESTABLISH A HOME
                    
                    
                        THE remainder of the time before leaving, George Holt
                        spent in the very strongest mental and physical effort to show Kate how much
                        of a man he was. He succeeded in what he hoped he might do. He so influenced
                        her in his favour that during the coming year whenever any one showed signs
                        of criticising him, Kate stopped them by commendation, based upon what she
                        supposed to be knowledge of him.
                    With the schoolhouse and grounds cleaned as they never had been before, the
                        parents and pupils naturally expected new methods. During the week spent in
                        becoming acquainted with the teacher, the parents heartily endorsed her,
                        while the pupils liked her cordially. It could be seen at a glance that she
                        could pick up the brawniest of them, and drop him from the window, if she
                        chose. The days at the stream had taught them her physical strength, while
                        at the same time they had glimpses of her mental processes. The boys learned
                        many things: that they must not lie or take anything which did not belong to
                        them: that they must be considerate and manly, if they were to be her
                        friends; yet not one  word had been said on
                        any of these subjects. As she spoke to them, they answered her, and soon
                        spoke in the same way to each other. She was very careful about each
                        statement she made, often adducing convenient proof, so they saw that she
                        was always right, and never exaggerated. The first hour of this made the
                        boys think, the second they imitated, the third they instantly obeyed. She
                        started in to interest and educate those children; she sent them home to
                        investigate more subjects the first day than they had ever carried home in
                        any previous month. Boys suddenly began asking their fathers about business;
                        girls questioned their mothers about marketing and housekeeping.
                    The week of Christmas vacation was going to be the hardest; everyone expected
                        the teacher to go home for the Holidays. Many of them knew that her sister
                        was marrying the new doctor of Hartley. When Kate was wondering how she
                        could possibly conceal the rupture with her family, Robert Gray drove into
                        Walden and found her at the schoolhouse. She was so delighted to see him
                        that she made no attempt to conceal her joy. He had driven her way for
                        exercise and to pay her a call. When he realized from her greeting how she
                        had felt the separation from her family, he had an idea that he at once
                        propounded: "Kate, I have come to ask a favour of you," he
                        said.
                    "Granted!" laughed Kate. "Whatever can it
                        be?"
                    "Just this! I want you to pack a few clothes, drive to Hartley with
                        me and do what you can to straighten out the 
                        --use, so there won't be such confusion when
                        Nancy Ellen gets there."
                    Kate stared at him in a happy daze. "Oh, you blessed Robert Gray!
                        What a Heavenly idea!" she cried. "Of course it
                        wouldn't be possible for me to fix Nancy Ellen's house the
                        way she would, but I could put everything where it belonged, I could arrange
                        well enough, and I could have a supper ready, so that you could come
                        straight home."
                    "Then you will do it?" he asked.
                    "Do it?" cried Kate. "Do it! Why, I would be
                        willing to pay you for the chance to do it. How do you think I'm to
                        explain my not going home for the Holidays, and to my sister's
                        wedding, and retain my self-respect before my patrons?"
                    "I didn't think of it in that way," he said.
                    "I'm crazy," said Kate. "Take me quickly!
                        How far along are you?"
                    "House cleaned, blinds up, stoves all in, coal and wood, cellar
                        stocked, carpets down, and furniture all there, but not unwrapped or in
                        place. Dishes delivered but not washed; cooking utensils there, but not
                        cleaned."
                    "Enough said," laughed Kate. "You go marry Nancy
                        Ellen. I shall have the house warm, arranged so you can live in it, and the
                        first meal ready when you come. Does Nancy Ellen know you are
                        here?"
                    "No. I have enough country practice that I need a horse;
                        I'm trying this one. I think of you often so I thought I'd
                        drive out. How are you making it, Kate?"
                    
                    "Just fine, so far as the school goes. I don't particularly
                        like the woman I board with. Her son is some better, yes, he is much better.
                        And Robert, what is a Zonoletic Doctor?"
                    "A poor fool, too lazy to be a real doctor, with no conscience about
                        taking people's money for nothing," he said.
                    "As bad as that?" asked Kate.
                    "Worse! Why?" he said.
                    "Oh, I only wondered," said Kate. "Now I am ready,
                        here; but I must run to the house where I board a minute. It's only
                        a step. You watch where I go, and drive down."
                    She entered the house quietly and going back to the kitchen she said:
                        "The folks have come for me, Mrs. Holt. I don't know
                        exactly when I shall be back, but in plenty of time to start school. If
                        George goes before I return, tell him 'Merry Christmas,'
                        for me."
                    "He'll be most disappointed to death," said Mrs.
                        Holt.
                    "I don't see why he should," said Kate, calmly.
                        "You never have had the teacher here at Christmas."
                    "We never had a teacher that I wanted before," said Mrs.
                        Holt; while Kate turned to avoid seeing the woman's face as she
                        perjured herself. "You're like one of the family, George
                        is crazy about you. He wrote me to be sure to keep you. Couldn't
                        you possibly stay over Sunday?"
                    "No, I couldn't," said Kate.
                    "Who came after you?" asked Mrs. Holt.
                    "Dr. Gray," answered Kate.
                    
                    "That new doctor at Hartley? Why, be you an' him
                        friends?"
                    Mrs. Holt had followed down the hall, eagerly waiting in the doorway. Kate
                        glanced at her and felt sudden pity. The woman was warped. Everything in her
                        life had gone wrong. Possibly she could not avoid being the disagreeable
                        person she was. Kate smiled at her.
                    "Worse than that," she said. "We be relations in a
                        few days. He's going to marry my sister Nancy Ellen next
                        Tuesday."
                    Kate understood the indistinct gurgle she heard to be approving, so she
                        added: "He came after me early so I could go to Hartley and help
                        get their new house ready for them to live in after the ceremony."
                    "Did your father give them the house?" asked Mrs Holt
                        eagerly.
                    "No. Dr. Gray bought his home," said Kate.
                    "How nice! What did your father give them?"
                    Kate's patience was exhausted. "You'll have to
                        wait until I come back," she said. "I haven't the
                        gift of telling about things before they have happened."
                    Then she picked up her telescope and saying "good-bye,"
                        left the house.
                    As they drove toward Hartley: "I'm anxious to see your
                        house," said Kate. "Did you find one in a good
                        neighbourhood?"
                    "The very best, I think," said the doctor. "That
                        is all one could offer Nancy Ellen."
                    "I'm so glad for her! And I'm glad for you, too!
                             She'll make you a beautiful wife
                        in every way. She's a good cook, she knows how to economize, and
                        she's too pretty for words, if she is my
                        sister."
                    "I heartily agree with you," said the doctor. "But
                        I notice you put the cook first and the beauty last."
                    "You will, too, before you get through with it," answered
                        Kate.
                    "Here we are!" said he, soon after they entered Hartley.
                        "I'll drive around the block, so you can form an idea of
                        the location." Kate admired every house in the block, the streets
                        and trees, the one house Robert Gray had selected in every particular. They
                        went inside and built fires, had lunch together at the hotel, and then Kate
                        rolled up her sleeves and with a few yards of cheese-cloth for a duster,
                        began unwrapping furniture and standing it in the room where it belonged.
                        Robert moved the heavy pieces, then he left to call on a patient and spend
                        the evening with Nancy Ellen.
                    So Kate spent several happy days setting Nancy Ellen's new home in
                        order. From basement to garret she had it immaculate and shining. No Bates
                        girl, not even Agatha, ever had gone into a home having so many comforts and
                        conveniences.
                    Kate felt lonely the day she knew her home was overcrowded with all their big
                        family; she sat very still thinking of them during the hour of the ceremony;
                        she began preparing supper almost immediately, because Robert had promised
                        her that he would not eat any more of the wedding feast than he could help,
                        and  he would bring Nancy Ellen as soon
                        afterward as possible. Kate saw them drive to the gate and come up the walk
                        together. As they entered the door Nancy Ellen was saying: "Why,
                        how does the house come to be all lighted up? Seems to me I smell things to
                        eat. Well, if the table isn't all set!"
                    There was a pause and then Nancy Ellen's clear voice called:
                        "Kate! Kate! Where are you? Nobody else would be this nice to me. You dear girl, where are you?"
                    "I'll get to stay until I go back to school!" was
                        Kate's mental comment as she ran to clasp Nancy Ellen in her arms,
                        while they laughed and very nearly cried together, so that the doctor felt
                        it incumbent upon him to hug both of them. Shortly afterward he said:
                        "There is a fine show in town to-night, and I have three tickets.
                        Let's all go."
                    "Let's eat before we go," said Nancy Ellen,
                        "I haven't had time to eat a square meal for a week and
                        things smell deliciously."
                    They finished their supper leisurely, stacked the dishes and went to the
                        theatre, where they saw a fair performance of a good play, which was to both
                        of the girls a great treat. When they returned home, Kate left Nancy Ellen
                        and Robert to gloat over the carpets they had selected, as they appeared on
                        their floors, to arrange the furniture and re-examine their wedding gifts;
                        while she slipped into the kitchen and began washing the dishes and planning
                        what she would have for breakfast. But soon 
                        they came to her and Nancy Ellen insisted on wiping the dishes, while Robert
                        carried them to the cupboard. Afterward, they sat before their fireplace and
                        talked over events since the sisters' separation.
                    Nancy Ellen told about getting ready for her wedding, life at home, the
                        school, the news of the family; then Kate drew a perfect picture of the
                        Walden school, her boarding place, Mrs. Holt, the ravine, the town and the
                        people, with the exception of George Holthim she never mentioned.
                    After Robert had gone to his office the following morning, Kate said to Nancy
                        Ellen: "Now I wish you would be perfectly frank with me"
                    "As if I could be anything else!" laughed the bride.
                    "All right, then," said Kate. "What I want is
                        this: that these days shall always come back to you in memory as nearly
                        perfect as possible. Now if my being here helps ever so little, I like to
                        stay, and I'll be glad to cook and wash dishes, while you fix your
                        house to suit you. But if you'd rather be alone, I'll go
                        back to Walden and be satisfied and happy with the fine treat this has been.
                        I can look everyone in the face now, talk about the wedding, and feel all
                        right."
                    Nancy Ellen said slowly: "I shan't spare you until barely
                        time to reach your school Monday morning. And I'm not keeping you
                        to work for me, either! We'll do everything together, and then
                        we'll plan how to make the house pretty, and go see Robert in his
                        office, and go shopping. I'll never forgive you if you
                        go."
                    
                    "Why, Nancy Ellen!" said Kate, then fled to the kitchen too
                        happy to speak further.
                    None of them ever forgot that week. It was such a happy time that all of them
                        dreaded its end; but when it came they parted cheerfully, and each went back
                        to work, the better for the happy reunion. Kate did not return to Walden
                        until Monday; then she found Mrs. Holt in an evil temper. Kate could not
                        understand it. She had no means of knowing that for a week George had nagged
                        his mother unceasingly because Kate was gone on his return, and would not be
                        back until after time for him to go again. The only way for him to see her
                        during the week he had planned to come out openly as her lover, was to try
                        to find her at her home, or at her sister's. He did not feel that
                        it would help him to go where he never had been asked. His only recourse was
                        to miss a few days of school and do extra work to make it up; but he
                        detested nothing in life as he detested work, so the world's happy
                        week had been to them one of constant sparring and unhappiness, for which
                        Mrs. Holt blamed Kate. Her son had returned expecting to court Kate Bates
                        strenuously; his disappointment was not lightened by his mother's
                        constant nagging. Monday forenoon she went to market, and came in gasping.
                    "Land sakes!" she cried as she panted down the hall.
                        "I've got a good one on that impident huzzy now!"
                    "You better keep your mouth shut, and not gossip about
                        her," he said. "Everybody likes her!"
                    "No, they don't, for I hate her worse 'n snakes!
                        If it  wa'n't for her money
                        I'd fix her so's 'at she'd never marry
                        you in kingdom come."
                    George Holt clenched his big fist.
                    "Just you try it!" he threatened. "Just you try
                        that!"
                    "You'll live to see the day you'd thank me if I
                        did. She ain't been home. Mind you, she ain't been Home! She never seen her sister married at all! Tilly
                        Nepple has a sister, living near the Bates, who worked in the kitchen.
                        She's visitin' at Tilly's now. Miss
                        High-and-Mighty never seen her sister married at all! An' it looked
                        mighty queer, her comin' here a week ahead of time, in the fall.
                        Looks like she'd done somepin she don't dare go home. No wonder she tears every scrap of mail she gets to
                        ribbons an' burns it. I told you she had a secret! If ever
                        you'd listen to me."
                    "Why, you're crazy!" he exclaimed. "I did
                        listen to you. What you told me was that I should go after her with all my
                        might. So I did it. Now you come with this. Shut it up! Don't let
                        her get wind of it for the world!"
                    "And Tilly Nepple's sister says old Land King Bates never
                        give his daughter a cent, an' he never gives none of his girls a
                        cent. It's up to the men they marry to take keer of them. The old
                        skin-flint! What you want to do is to go long to your schoolin', if
                        you reely are going to make somepin of yourself at last, an' let
                        that big strap of a girl be, do"
                    "Now, stop!" shouted George Holt. "Scenting
                        another scandal, are you? Don't you dare mar Kate Bates'
                             standing, or her reputation in this town,
                        or we'll have a time like we never had before. If old Bates
                        doesn't give his girls anything when they marry, they'll
                        get more when he dies. And so far as money is concerned, this has gone past money with me. I'm going to marry Kate
                        Bates, as soon as ever I can, and I've got to the place where
                        I'd marry her if she hadn't a cent. If I can't
                        take care of her, she can take care of me. I am crazy about her,
                        an' I'm going to have her; so you keep still, an'
                        do all you can to help me, or you'll regret it."
                    "It's you that will regret it!" she said.
                    "Stop your nagging, I tell you, or I'll come at you in a
                        way you won't like," he cried.
                    "You do that every day you're here," said Mrs.
                        Holt, starting to the kitchen to begin dinner.
                    Kate appeared in half an hour, fresh and rosy, also prepared; for one of her
                        little pupils had said: "Tilly Nepple's sister says you
                        wasn't at your sister's wedding at all. Did you cry
                        'cause you couldn't go?"
                    Instantly Kate comprehended what must be town gossip, so she gave the child a
                        happy solution of the question bothering her, and went to her boarding house
                        forewarned. She greeted both Mrs. Holt and her son cordially, then sat down
                        to dinner, in the best of spirits. The instant her chance came, Mrs. Holt
                        said: "Now tell us all about the lovely wedding."
                    "But I wasn't managing the wedding," said Kate
                        cheerfully. "I was on the infare job. Mother and Nancy Ellen put
                        the wedding through. You know our  house
                        isn't very large, and close relatives fill it to bursting.
                        I've seen the same kind of wedding about every eighteen months all
                        my life. I had a new job this time, and one I liked
                        better."
                    She turned to George: "Of course your mother told you that Dr. Gray
                        came after me. He came to ask me as an especial favour to go to his new
                        house in Hartley, and do what I could to arrange it, and to have a supper
                        ready. I was glad. I'd seen six weddings that I can remember, all
                        exactly alikethere's nothing to them; but brushing those new
                        carpets, unwrapping nice furniture and placing it, washing pretty new
                        dishes, untying the loveliest gifts and arranging themthat
                        was something new in a Bates wedding. Oh, but I had a splendid
                        time!"
                    George Holt looked at his mother in too great disgust to conceal his
                        feelings.
                    "Another gilt-edged scandal gone sky
                        high," he said. Then he turned to Kate. "One of the women
                        who worked in your mother's kitchen is visiting here, and she
                        started a great hullabaloo because you were not at the wedding. You probably
                        haven't got a leg left to stand on. I suspect the old cats of
                        Walden have chewed them both off, and all the while you were happy, and
                        doing the thing any girl would much rather have done. Lord, I hate this
                        eternal picking! How did you come back, Kate?"
                    "Dr. Gray brought me."
                    "I should think it would have made talk, your staying there with
                        him," commented Mrs. Holt.
                    
                    "Fortunately, the people in Hartley seem reasonably busy attending
                        their own affairs," said Kate. "Doctor Gray had been
                        boarding at the hotel all fall, so he just went on living there until after
                        the wedding."
                    George glared at his mother, but she avoided his eyes, and laughing in a
                        silly, half-confused manner she said: "How much money did your
                        father give the bride?"
                    "I can't tell you, in even dollars and cents,"
                        said Kate. "Nancy Ellen didn't say."
                    Kate saw the movement of George's foot under the table, and knew
                        that he was trying to make his mother stop asking questions; so she began
                        talking to him about his work. As soon as the meal was finished he walked
                        with her to school, visiting until the session began. He remained three
                        days, and before he left he told Kate he loved her, and asked her to be his
                        wife. She looked at him in surprise and said: "Why, I never thought
                        of such a thing! How long have you been thinking about it?"
                    "Since the first instant I saw you!" he declared with
                        fervour.
                    "Hum! Matter of months," said Kate. "Well, when I
                        have had that much time, I will tell you what I think about
                    it."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    THE HISTORY OF A
                            LEGHORN HAT
                    
                    
                        KATE finished her school in the spring, then went for a
                        visit with Nancy Ellen and Robert, before George Holt returned. She was
                        thankful to leave Walden without having seen him, for she had decided,
                        without giving the matter much thought, that he was not the man she wanted
                        to marry. In her heart she regretted having previously contracted for the
                        Walden school another winter because she felt certain that with the
                        influence of Dr. Gray, she could now secure a position in Hartley that would
                        enable her either to live with, or to be near, her sister. With this thought
                        in mind, she tried to make the acquaintance of teachers in the school who
                        lived in Hartley and she soon became rather intimate with one of them.
                    It was while visiting with this teacher that Kate spoke of attending Normal
                        again in an effort to prepare herself still better for the work of the
                        coming year. Her new friend advised against it. She said the course would be
                        only the same thing over again, with so little change or advancement, that
                        the trip was not worth the time and money it would cost. She proposed that
                        Kate go to Lake Chautauqua and take the teachers' course, where all
                        spare  time could be put in attending
                        lectures, and concerts, and studying the recently devised methods of
                        education. Kate went from her to Nancy Ellen and Robert, determined at heart
                        to go.
                    She was pleased when they strongly advised her to, and offered to help her
                        get ready. Aside from having paid Agatha, and for her board, Kate had spent
                        almost nothing on herself. She figured the probable expenses of the trip for
                        a month, what it would cost her to live until school began again, if she
                        were forced to go to Walden, and then spent all her remaining funds on the
                        prettiest clothing she ever had owned. Each of the sisters knew how to buy
                        carefully; then the added advantage of being able to cut and make their own
                        clothes, made money go twice as far as where a dressmaker had to be
                        employed. When everything they had planned was purchased, neatly made, and
                        packed in a trunk, into which Nancy Ellen slipped some of her prettiest
                        belongings, Kate made a trip to a milliner's shop to purchase her
                        first real hat.
                    She had decided on a big, wide-brimmed Leghorn, far from cheap. While she was
                        trying the effect of flowers and ribbon on it, the wily milliner slipped up
                        and with the hat on Kate's golden crown, looped in front a bow of
                        wide black velvet ribbon and drooped over the brim a long, exquisitely
                        curling ostrich plume. Kate had one good view of herself, before she turned
                        her back on the temptation.
                    "You look lovely in that," said the milliner.
                        "Don't you like it?"
                    
                    "I certainly do," said Kate. "I look the best
                         hat, with the black velvet and the plume, I ever  but
                        there's no use to look twice, I can't afford it."
                    "Oh, but it is very reasonable! We haven't a finer hat in
                        the store, nor a better plume," said the milliner.
                    She slowly waved it in all its glory before Kate's beauty-hungry
                        eyes. Kate turned so she could not see it.
                    "Please excuse one question. Are you teaching in Walden this
                        winter?" asked the milliner.
                    "Yes," said Kate. "I have signed the contract for
                        that school."
                    "Then charge the hat and pay for it in September. I'd
                        rather wait for my money than see you fail to spend the summer under that
                        plume. It really is lovely against your gold hair."
                    "'Get thee behind me, Satan,'" quoted
                        Kate. "No. I never had anything charged, and never expect to.
                        Please have the black velvet put on and let me try it with the bows set and
                        sewed."
                    "All right," said the milliner, "but I'm
                        sorry."
                    She was so sorry that she carried the plume to the work room, and when she
                        again walked up behind Kate, who sat waiting before the mirror, and
                        carefully set the hat on her head, at exactly the right angle, the long
                        plume crept down one side and drooped across the girl's shoulder.
                    "I will reduce it a dollar more," she said, "and
                        send the bill to you at Walden the last week in September."
                    Kate moved her head from side to side, lifted and dropped her chin. Then she
                        turned to the milliner.
                    
                    
                         should be killed!" she said.
                    The woman reached for a hat box.
                    "No, I shouldn't!" she said. "Waiting
                        that long, I'll not make much on the hat, but I'll make a
                        good friend who will come again, and bring her friends. What is your name,
                        please?"
                    Kate took one look at herselfsmooth pink cheeks, gray eyes, gold hair, the
                        sweeping wide brim, the trailing plume.
                    "Miss Katherine Eleanor Bates," she said, "Bates
                        Corners, Hartley, Indiana. Please call my carriage?"
                    The milliner laughed heartily. "That's the spirit of
                        '76," she commended. "I'd be willing to
                        wager something worth while that this very hat brings you the carriage
                        before fall, if you show yourself in it in the right place. It's a
                        perfectly stunning hat. Shall I send it, or will you wear it?"
                    Kate looked in the mirror again. "You may put a fresh blue band on
                        the sailor I was wearing, and send that to Dr. Gray's when it is
                        finished," she said. "And put in a fancy bow, for my
                        throat, of the same velvet as the hat, please. I'll surely pay you
                        the last week in September. And if you can think up an equally becoming hat
                        for winter"
                    "You just bet I can, young lady," said the milliner to
                        herself as Kate walked down the street.
                    From afar, Kate saw Nancy Ellen on the veranda, so she walked slowly to let
                        the effect sink in, but it seemed to make no impression until she looked up
                        at Nancy Ellen's very feet and said: "Well, how do you
                        like it?"
                    
                    "Good gracious!" cried Nancy Ellen. "I thought I
                        was having a stylish caller. I didn't know you! Why, I never saw
                            you walk that way before."
                    "You wouldn't expect me to plod along as if I were plowing,
                        with a thing like this on my head, would you?"
                    "I wouldn't expect you to have a thing like that on your
                        head; but since you have, I don't mind telling you that you are
                        stunning in it," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "Better and better!" laughed Kate, sitting down on the
                        step. "The milliner said it was a stunning hat."
                    "The goose!" said Nancy Ellen. "You become that
                        hat, Kate, quite as much as the hat becomes you."
                    The following day, dressed in a linen suit of natural colour, with the black
                        bow at her throat, the new hat in a bandbox, and the renewed sailor on her
                        head, Kate waved her farewells to Nancy Ellen and Robert on the platform,
                        then walked straight to the dressing room of the car, and changed the hats.
                        Nancy Ellen had told her this was not the thing to do. She
                        should travel in a plain untrimmed hat, and when the dust and heat of her
                        journey were past, she should bathe, put on fresh clothing, and wear such a
                        fancy hat only with her best frocks, in the afternoon. Kate need not have
                        been told that. Right instincts and Bates economy would have taught her the
                        same thing, but she had a perverse streak in her nature. She had seen herself in the hat.
                    The milliner, who knew enough of the world and human nature to know how to
                        sell Kate the hat, when she never intended to buy it, and knew she should
                        not in the  way she did, had said that before
                        fall it would bring her a carriage, which put into bald terms meant a rich
                        husband. Now Kate liked her school and she gave it her full attention; she
                        had done, and still intended to keep on doing, first-class work in the
                        future; but her school, or anything pertaining to it, was not worth
                        mentioning beside Nancy Ellen's home, and the
                        deep understanding and strong feeling that showed so plainly between her and
                        Robert Gray. Kate expected to marry by the time she was twenty or soon
                        after; all Bates girls had, most of them had married very well indeed. She
                        frankly envied Nancy Ellen, while it never occurred to her that any one
                        would criticise her for saying so. Only one thing could happen to her that
                        would surpass what had come to her sister. If only she could have a man like
                        Robert Gray, and have him on a piece of land of their own. Kate was a girl,
                        but no man of the Bates tribe ever was more deeply bitten by the lust for
                        land. She was the true daughter of her father, in more than one way. If that
                        very expensive hat was going to produce the man why not let it begin to work
                        from the very start? If her man was somewhere, only waiting to see her, and
                        the hat would help him to speedy recognition, why miss a chance?
                    She thought over the year, and while she deplored the estrangement from home,
                        she knew that if she had to go back to one year ago, giving up the present
                        and what it had brought and promised to bring, for a reconciliation with her
                        father, she would not voluntarily return to the old driving, nagging,
                        overwork, and skimping, missing,  every real
                        comfort of life to buy land, in which she never would have any part.
                    "You get your knocks 'taking the wings of
                        morning,'" thought Kate to herself, "but after
                        all it is the only thing to do. Nancy Ellen says Sally Whistler is pleasing
                        Mother very well, why should I miss my chance and ruin my temper to stay at
                        home and do the work done by a woman who can do nothing else?"
                    Kate moved her head slightly to feel if the big, beautiful hat that sat her
                        braids so lightly was still there. "Go to work, you
                        beauty," thought Kate. "Do something better for me than
                        George Holt. I'll have him to fall back on if I can't do
                        better; but I think I can. Yes, I'm very sure I can! If you do your
                        part, you lovely plume, I know I can!"
                    Toward noon the train ran into a violent summer storm. The sky grew black,
                        the lightning flashed, the wind raved, the rain fell in gusts. The storm was
                        at its height when Kate quite watching it and arose, preoccupied with her
                        first trip to a dining car, thinking about how little food she could order
                        and yet avoid a hunger headache. The twisting whirlwind struck her face as
                        she stepped from the day coach to go to the dining car. She threw back her
                        head and sucked her lungs full of the pure, rain-chilled air. She was
                        accustomed to being out in storms, she liked them. One second she paused to
                        watch the gale sweeping the fields, the next a twitch at her hair caused her
                        to throw up her hands and clutch wildly at nothing. She sprang to the step
                        railing and leaned out in time to see her 
                        wonderful hat whirl against the corner of the car, hold there an instant
                        with the pressure of the wind, then slide down, draw under, and drop across
                        the rail, where passing wheels ground it to pulp.
                    Kate stood very still a second, then she reached up and tried to pat the
                        disordered strands of hair into place. She turned and went back into the day
                        coach, opened the band-box, and put on the sailor. She resumed her old
                        occupation of thinking things over. All the joy had vanished from the day
                        and the trip. Looking forward, it had seemed all right to defy custom and
                        Nancy Ellen's advice, and do as she pleased. Looking backward, she
                        saw that she had made a fool of herself in the estimation of everyone in the
                        car by not wearing the sailor, which was suitable for her journey, and would
                        have made no such mark for a whirling wind.
                    She found travelling even easier than any one had told her. Each station was
                        announced. When she alighted, there were conveyances to take her and her
                        luggage to a hotel, patronized almost exclusively by teachers, near the
                        schools and lecture halls. Large front suites and rooms were out of the
                        question for Kate, but luckily a tiny corner room at the back of the
                        building was empty and when Kate specified how long she would remain, she
                        secured it at a less figure than she had expected to pay. She began by
                        almost starving herself at supper in order to save enough money to replace
                        her hat with whatever she could find that would serve passably, and be cheap
                        enough. That far she proceeded stoically; but when night  settled and she stood in her dressing jacket
                        brushing her hair, something gave way. Kate dropped on her bed and cried
                        into her pillow, as she never had cried before about anything. It was not
                            all about the hat. While she was at it, she shed a few
                        tears about every cruel thing that had happened to her since she could
                        remember that she had borne tearlessly at the time. It was a deluge that
                        left her breathless and exhausted. When she finally sat up, she found the
                        room so close, she gently opened her door and peeped into the hall. There
                        was a door opening on an outside veranda, running across the end of the
                        building and the length of the front.
                    As she looked from her door and listened intently, she heard the sound of a
                        woman's voice in choking, stifled sobs, in the room having a door
                        directly across the narrow hall from hers.
                    "My Lord! There's two of us!"
                        said Kate.
                    She leaned closer, listening again, but when she heard a short groan mingled
                        with the sobs, she immediately tapped on the door. Instantly the sobs ceased
                        and the room became still. Kate put her lips to the crack and said in her
                        off-hand way: "It's only a school-marm, rooming next you.
                        If you're ill, could I get anything for you?"
                    "Will you please come in?" asked a muffled voice.
                    Kate turned the knob, and stepping inside, closed the door after her. She
                        could dimly see her way to the dresser, where she found matches and lighted
                        the gas. On the bed lay in a tumbled heap a tiny, elderly, Dresden-china
                        doll-woman. She was fully dressed, even to her wrap,  bonnet, and gloves; one hand clutched her side, the other held
                        a handkerchief to her lips. Kate stood an instant under the light, studying
                        the situation. The dark eyes in the narrow face looked appealingly at her.
                        The woman tried to speak, but gasped for breath. Kate saw that she had heart
                        trouble.
                    "The remedy! Where is it?" she cried.
                    The woman pointed to a purse on the dresser. Kate opened it, took out a small
                        bottle, and read the directions. In a second, she was holding a glass to the
                        woman's lips; soon she was better. She looked at Kate eagerly.
                    "Oh, please don't leave me," she gasped.
                    "Of course not!" said Kate instantly.
                        "I'll stay as long as you want me."
                    She bent over the bed and gently drew the gloves from the frail hands. She
                        untied and slipped off the bonnet. She hunted keys in the purse, opened a
                        travelling bag, and found what she required. Then slowly and carefully she
                        undressed the woman, helped her into a night robe, and stooping she lifted
                        her into a chair until she opened the bed. After giving her time to rest,
                        Kate pulled down the white wavy hair and brushed it for the night. As she
                        worked, she said a word of encouragement now and again; when she had done
                        all she could see to do, she asked if there was more. The woman suddenly
                        clung to her hand and began to sob wildly. Kate knelt beside the bed,
                        stroked the white hair, patted the shoulder she could reach, and talked very
                        much as she would have to a little girl.
                    
                    "Please don't cry," she begged. "It must
                        be your heart; you'll surely make it worse."
                    "I'm trying," said the woman, "but
                        I've been scared sick. I most certainly would have died if you
                        hadn't come to me and found the medicine. Oh, that dreadful
                        Susette! How could she?"
                    The clothing Kate had removed from the woman had been of finest cloth and
                        silk. Her hands wore wonderful rings. A heavy purse was in her bag.
                        Everything she had was the finest that money could buy, while she seemed as
                        if a rough wind never had touched her. She appeared so frail that Kate
                        feared to let her sleep without knowing where to locate her friends.
                    "She should be punished for leaving you alone among
                        strangers," said Kate indignantly.
                    "If I only could learn to mind John," sighed the little
                        woman. "He never liked Susette. But she was the very best maid I
                        ever had. She was like a loving daughter, until all at once, on the train,
                        among strangers, she flared out at me, and simply raved. Oh, it was
                        dreadful!"
                    "And knowing you were subject to these attacks, she did the thing
                        that would precipitate one, and then left you alone among strangers. How
                        wicked! How cruel!" said Kate in tense indignation.
                    "John didn't want me to come. But I used to be a teacher,
                        and I came here when this place was mostly woods, with my dear husband. Then
                        after he died, through the long years of poverty and struggle, I would  read of the place and the wonderful meetings,
                        but I could never afford to come. Then when John began to work and made good
                        so fast I was dizzy half the time with his successes, I didn't
                        think about the place. But lately, since I've had everything else I
                        could think of, something possessed me to come back here, and take a suite
                        among the women and men who are teaching our young people so wonderfully;
                        and to sail on the lake, and hear the lectures, and dream my youth over
                        again. I think that was it most of all, to dream my youth over again, to try
                        to relive the past."
                    "There now, you have told me all about it," said Kate,
                        stroking the white forehead in an effort to produce drowsiness,
                        "close your eyes and go to sleep."
                    "I haven't even begun to tell
                        you," said the woman perversely. "If I talked all night I
                        couldn't tell you about John. How big he is, and how brave he is,
                        and how smart he is, and how he is the equal of any business man in Chicago,
                        and soon, if he keeps on, he will be worth as much as some of themmore than
                        any one of his age, who has had a lot of help instead of having his way to
                        make alone, and a sick old mother to support besides. No, I
                        couldn't tell you in a week half about John, and he didn't
                        want me to come. If I would come, then he wanted me to wait a few days until
                        he finished a deal so he could bring me, but the minute I thought of it I
                        was determined to come; you know how you get."
                    "I know how badly you want to do a thing you have set your heart
                        on," admitted Kate.
                    
                    "I had gone places with Susette in perfect comfort. I think the
                        trouble was that she tried from the first to attract John. About the time we
                        started, he let her see plainly that all he wanted of her was to take care
                        of me; she was pretty and smart, so it made her furious. She was pampered in
                        everything, as no maid I ever had before. John is young yet, and I think he
                        is very handsome, and he wouldn't pay any attention to her. You see
                        when other boys were going to school and getting acquainted with girls by
                        association, even when he was a little bit of a fellow in knee breeches, I
                        had to let him sell papers, and then he got into a shop, and he invented a
                        little thing, and then a bigger, and bigger yet, and then he went into
                        stocks and things, and he doesn't know anything about girls, only
                        about sick old women like me. He never saw what Susette was up to. You do
                        believe that I wasn't ugly to her, don't you?"
                    "You couldn't be ugly if you
                        tried," said Kate.
                    The woman suddenly began to sob again, this time slowly, as if her forces
                        were almost spent. She looked to Kate for the sympathy she craved and for
                        the first time really saw her closely.
                    "Why, you dear girl," she cried. "Your face is all
                        tear stained. You've been crying, yourself."
                    "Roaring in a pillow," admitted Kate.
                    "But my dear, forgive me! I was so upset with that dreadful woman.
                        Forgive me for not having seen that you, too, are in trouble. Won't
                        you please tell me?"
                    "Of course," said Kate. "I lost my new
                        hat."
                    
                    "But, my dear! Crying over a hat? When it is so easy to get another?
                        How foolish!" said the woman.
                    "Yes, but you didn't see the hat," said Kate.
                        "And it will be far from easy to get another, with this one not
                        paid for yet. I'm only one season removed from sunbonnets, so I
                        never should have bought it at all."
                    The woman moved in bed, and taking one of Kate's long, crinkly
                        braids, she drew the wealth of gold through her fingers repeatedly.
                    "Tell me about your hat," she said.
                    So to humour this fragile woman, and to keep from thinking of her own
                        trouble, Kate told the story of her Leghorn hat and ostrich plume, and many
                        things besides, for she was not her usual terse self with her new friend who
                        had to be soothed to forgetfulness.
                    Kate ended: "I was all wrong to buy such a hat in the first place. I
                        couldn't afford it; it was foolish vanity. I'm not really
                        good-looking; I shouldn't have flattered myself that I was. Losing
                        it before it was paid for was just good for me. Never again will I be so
                        foolish."
                    "Why, my dear, don't say such things or think
                        them," chided the little woman. "You had as good a right
                        to a becoming hat as any girl. Now let me ask you one question, and then
                        I'll try to sleep. You said you were a teacher. Did you come here
                        to attend the Summer School for Teachers?"
                    "Yes," said Kate.
                    "Would it make any great difference to you if you missed a few
                        days?" she asked.
                    
                    "Not the least," said Kate.
                    "Well, then, you won't be offended, will you, if I ask you
                        to remain with me and take care of me until John comes? I could send him a
                        message to-night that I am alone, and bring him by this time to-morrow; but
                        I know he has business that will cause him to lose money should he leave,
                        and I was so very wilful about coming, I dread to prove him right so
                        conclusively the very first day. That door opens into a room reserved for
                        Susette, if only you'd take it, and leave the door unclosed
                        to-night, and if only you would stay with me until John comes I could well
                        afford to pay you enough to lengthen your stay as long as you'd
                        like; and it makes me so happy to be with such a fresh young creature. Will
                        you stay with me, my dear?"
                    "I certainly will," said Kate heartily. "If
                        you'll only tell me what I should do; I'm not accustomed
                        to rich ladies, you know."
                    "I'm not myself," said the little woman,
                        "but I do seem to take to being waited upon with the most
                        remarkable facility!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    A SUNBONNET GIRL
                    
                    
                        WITH the first faint light of morning, Kate slipped to the
                        door to find her charge still sleeping soundly. It was eight
                        o'clock when she heard a movement in the adjoining room and went
                        again to the door. This time the woman was awake and smilingly waved to Kate
                        as she called: "Good morning! Come right in. I was wondering if you
                        were regretting your hasty bargain."
                    "Not a bit of it!" laughed Kate. "I am here
                        waiting to be told what to do first. I forgot to tell you my name last
                        night. It is Kate Bates. I'm from Bates Corners, Hartley,
                        Indiana."
                    The woman held out her hand. "I'm so very glad to meet you,
                        Miss Bates," she said. "My name is Mariette Jardine. My
                        home is in Chicago."
                    They shook hands, smiling at each other, and then Kate said: "Now,
                        Mrs. Jardine, what shall I do for you first?"
                    "I will be dressed, I think, and then you may bring up the manager
                        until I have an understanding with him, and give him a message I want sent,
                        and an order for our breakfast. I wonder if it wouldn't be nice to
                        have it  served on the corner of the veranda
                        in front of our rooms, under the shade of that big tree."
                    "I think that would be famous," said Kate.
                    They are together under the spreading branches of a giant maple tree, where
                        they could see into the nest of an oriole that brooded in a long purse of
                        gray lint and white cotton cord. They could almost reach out and touch it.
                        The breakfast was good, nicely served by a neat maid, evidently doing
                        something so out of the ordinary that she was rather stunned; but she was a
                        young person of some self-possession, for when she removed the tray, Mrs.
                        Jardine thanked her and gave her a coin that brought a smiling:
                        "Thank you very much. If you want your dinner served here and will
                        ask for Jennie Weeks, I'd like to wait on you again."
                    "Thank you," said Mrs. Jardine, "I shall remember
                        that. I don't like changing waiters each meal. It gives them no
                        chance to learn what I want or how I want it."
                    Then she and Kate slowly walked the length of the veranda several times,
                        while she pointed out parts of the grounds they could see that remained as
                        she had known them formerly, and what were improvements.
                    When Mrs. Jardine was tired, they returned to the room and she lay on the bed
                        while they talked of many things; talked of things with which Kate was
                        familiar, and some concerning which she unhesitatingly asked questions until
                        she felt informed. Mrs. Jardine was so dainty, so delicate, yet so full of
                        life, so well informed, so keen mentally, that as she talked she kept Kate
                        chuckling most of the time. She  talked of her
                        home life, her travels, her friends, her son. She talked of politics,
                        religion, and education; then she talked of her son again. She talked of
                        social conditions, Civic Improvement, and Woman's Rights, then she
                        came back to her son, until Kate saw that he was the real interest in the
                        world to her. The mental picture she drew of him was peculiar. One minute
                        Mrs. Jardine spoke of him as a man among men, pushing, fighting, forcing
                        matters to work to his will, so Kate imagined him tall, broad, and brawny,
                        indefatigable in his undertakings; the next, his mother was telling of such
                        thoughtfulness, such kindness, such loving care that Kate's mental
                        picture shifted to a neat, exacting little man, purely effeminate as men
                        ever can be; but whatever she thought, some right instinct prevented her
                        from making a comment or asking a question.
                    Once she sat looking far across the beautiful lake with such an expression on
                        her face that Mrs. Jardine said to her: "What are you thinking of,
                        my dear?"
                    Kate said smilingly: "Oh, I was thinking of what a wonderful school
                        I shall teach this winter."
                    "Tell me what you mean," said Mrs. Jardine.
                    "Why, with even a month of this, I shall have riches stored for
                        every day of the year," said Kate. "None of my pupils ever
                        saw a lake, that I know of. I shall tell them of this with its shining
                        water, its rocky, shady, sandy shore lines; of the rowboats and steam-boats,
                        and the people from all over the country. Before I go back, I can tell them
                        of wonderful lectures, concerts, educational 
                        demonstrations here. I shall get much from the e-ences of
                        other teachers. I shall delight my pupils just you."
                    "In what way?" asked Mrs. Jardine.
                    "Oh, I shall tell them of a dainty little woman who knows
                        everything. From you I shall teach my girls to be simple, wholesome, tender,
                        and kind; to take the gifts of God thankfully, reverently, yet with
                        self-respect. From you I can tell them what really fine fabrics are, and
                        about laces, and linens. When the subjects arise, as they always do in
                        teaching, I shall describe each ring you wear, each comb and pin, even the
                        handkerchiefs you carry, and the bags you travel with. To teach means to
                        educate, and it is a big task; but it is almost painfully interesting. Each
                        girl of my school shall go into life a gentler, daintier woman, more careful
                        of her person and speech because of my having met you. Isn't that a
                        fine thought?"
                    "Why, you darling!" cried Mrs. Jardine. "Life is
                        always having lovely things in store for me. Yesterday I thought
                        Susette's leaving me as she did was the most cruel thing that ever
                        happened to me. To-day I get from it this lovely experience. If you are
                        straight from sunbonnets, as you told me last night, where did you get these
                        advanced ideas?"
                    "If sunbonnets could speak, many of them would tell of surprising
                        heads they have covered," laughed Kate. "Life deals with
                        women much the same as with men. If we go back to where we start, history
                        can prove to you 
                        ---ere are ten sunbonnets to one Leghorn hat, in the
                            ---aces of the world."
                    Not to entertain me, but because I am interested, my dear, will you tell me
                        about your particular sunbonnet?" asked Mrs. Jardine.
                    Kate sat staring across the blue lake with wide eyes, a queer smile twisting
                        her lips. At last she said slowly: "Well, then, my sunbonnet is in
                        my trunk. I'm not so far away from it but that it still travels
                        with me. It's blue chambray, made from pieces left from my first
                        pretty dress. It is ruffled, and has white stitching. I made it myself. The
                        head that it fits is another matter. I didn't make that, or its
                        environment, or what was taught it, until it was of age, and had worked out
                        its legal time of service to pay for having been a head at all. But my head
                        is now free, in my own possession, ready to go as fast and far on the path
                        of life as it develops the brains to carry it. You'd smile if I
                        should tell you what I'd ask of life, if I could have what I
                        want."
                    "I scarcely think so. Please tell me."
                    "You'll be shocked," warned Kate.
                    "Just so it isn't enough to set my heart rocking
                        again," said Mrs. Jardine.
                    "We'll stop before that," laughed Kate.
                        "Then if you will have it, I want of life by the time I am twenty a
                        man of my stature, dark eyes and hair, because I am so light. I want him to
                        be honest, forceful, hard working, with a few drops of the milk of human
                        kindness in his heart, and the same ambitions I have."
                    
                    "And what are your ambitions?" asked Mrs.
                        Jardine.
                    "To own, and to cultivate, and to bring to the highest state of
                        efficiency at least two hundred acres of land, with convenient and
                        attractive buildings and pedigreed stock, and to mother at least twelve
                        perfect physical and mental boys and girls."
                    "Oh, my soul!" cried Mrs. Jardine, falling back in her
                        chair, her mouth agape. "My dear, you don't mean that? You only said that to shock me."
                    "But why should I wish to shock you? I sincerely mean it,"
                        persisted Kate.
                    "You amazing creature! I never heard a girl talk like that
                        before," said Mrs. Jardine.
                    "But you can't look straight ahead of you any direction you
                        turn without seeing a girl working for dear life to attract the man she
                        wants; if she can't secure him, some other man; and in lieu of him,
                        any man at all, in preference to none. Life shows us woman on the age-old
                        quest every day, everywhere we go; why be so secretive about it? Why not say
                        honestly what we want, and take it if we can get it? At any rate, that is
                        the most important thing inside my sunbonnet. I knew you'd be
                        shocked."
                    "But I am not shocked at what you say, I agree with you. What I am
                        shocked at is your ideals. I thought you'd want to educate yourself
                        to such superiority over common woman that you could take the platform, and
                        backed by your splendid physique, work for suffrage or lecture to educate
                        the masses."
                    "I think more could be accomplished with selected  specimens, by being steadily on the job, than
                        by giving an hour to masses. I'm not much interested in masses.
                        They are too abstract for me; I prefer one stern reality. And as for
                        Woman's Rights, if anybody gives this woman the right to do
                        anything more than she already has the right to do, there'll surely
                        be a scandal."
                    Mrs. Jardine lay back in her chair laughing.
                    "You are the most refreshing person I have met in all my travels.
                        Then to put it baldly, you want of life a man, a farm, and a
                        family."
                    "You comprehend me beautifully," said Kate. "All
                        my life I've worked like a towhead to help earn two hundred acres
                        of land for someone else. I think there's nothing I want so much as
                        two hundred acres of land for myself. I'd undertake to do almost
                        anything with it, if I had it. I know I could, if I had the
                        shoulder-to-shoulder, real man. You notice it will take considerable of a
                        man to touch shoulders with me; I'm a head taller than most of
                        them."
                    Mrs. Jardine looked at her speculatively. "Ummm!" she
                        murmured. Kate laughed.
                    "For eighteen years I have been under marching orders,"
                        said Kate. "Over a year ago I was advised by a minister to
                        'take the wings of morning' so I took wing. I started on
                        one grand flight and fell kersmash in short order. Life since has been a
                        series of battering my wings until I have almost decided to buy some
                        especially heavy boots, and walk the remainder of the way. As a concrete
                        example, I started out yesterday  morning
                        wearing a hat that several very reliable parties assured me would so assist
                        me to flight that I might at least have a carriage. Where, oh, where are my
                        hat and my carriage now? The carriage, non est! The hatI am humbly hoping
                        some little country girl, who has lived a life as barren as mine, will find
                        the remains and retrieve the velvet bow for a hair-ribbon. As for the man
                        that Leghorn hat was supposed to symbolize, he won't even look my
                        way when I appear in my bobby little sailor. He's as badly crushed
                        out of existence as my beautiful hat."
                    "You never should have been wearing such a hat to travel in, my
                        dear," murmured Mrs. Jardine.
                    "Certainly not!" said Kate. "I knew it. My sister
                        told me that. Common sense told me that! But what has that got to do with
                        the fact that I was wearing the hat? I guess I have you
                        there!"
                    "Far from it!" said Mrs. Jardine. "If
                        you're going to start out in life, calmly ignoring the advice of
                        those who love you, and the dictates of common sense, the result will be
                        that soon the wheels of life will be grinding you, instead of a train making
                        bag-rags of your hat."
                    "Hummm!" said Kate. "There is
                        food for reflection there. But wasn't it plain logic, that if the
                        hat was to bring the man, it should be worn where at any minute he might see
                        it?"
                    "But my dear, my dear! If such a man as a woman like you should
                        have, had seen you wearing that hat in the morning, on a railway train, he
                        would merely have thought  you prideful and
                        extravagant. You would have been far more attractive to any man I know in
                        your blue sunbonnet."
                    "I surely have learned that lesson," said Kate.
                        "Hereafter, sailors or sunbonnets for me in the morning. Now what
                        may I do to add to your comfort?"
                    "Leave me for an hour until I take a nap, and then we'll
                        have lunch and go to a lecture. I can go to-day, perfectly well, after an
                        hour's rest."
                    So Kate went for a very interesting walk around the grounds. When she
                        returned Mrs. Jardine was still sleeping so she wrote Nancy Ellen, telling
                        all about her adventure, but not a word about losing her hat. Then she had a
                        talk with Jennie Weeks whom she found lingering in the hall near her door.
                        When at last that nap was over, a new woman seemed to have developed. Mrs.
                        Jardine was so refreshed and interested the remainder of the day that it was
                        easier than before for Kate to see how shocked and ill she had been. As she
                        helped dress her for lunch, Kate said to Mrs. Jardine: "I met the
                        manager as I was going to post a letter to my sister, so I asked him always
                        to send you the same waiter. He said he would, and I'd like you to
                        pay particular attention to her appearance, and the way she does her
                        work."
                    "Why?" asked Mrs. Jardine.
                    "I met her in the hall as I came back from posting my letter, so we
                        'visited' a little, as the country folks say. She has
                        taught one winter of country school, a small 
                        school in an out county. She's here waiting table two hours three
                        times a day, to pay for her room and board. In the meantime, she attends all
                        the sessions and studies as much as she can; but she's very poor
                        material for a teacher. I pity her pupils. She's a little thing,
                        bright enough in her way, but she has not much initiative, not strong enough
                        for the work, and she has not enough spunk. She'll never lead the
                        minds of school children anywhere that will greatly benefit them."
                    "And your deduction is"
                    "That she would make you a kind, careful, obedient maid, who is
                        capable enough to be taught to wash your hair and manicure you with
                        deftness, and who would serve you for respect as well as hire. I think it
                        would be a fine arrangement for you and good for her."
                    "This surely is kind of you," said Mrs. Jardine.
                        "I'll keep strict watch of Jennie Weeks. If I could find a
                        really capable maid here and not have to wire John to bring one,
                        I'd be so glad. It does so go against the grain to prove to a man
                        that he has a right to be more conceited than he is naturally."
                    As they ate lunch Kate said to Mrs. Jardine: "I noticed one thing
                        this morning that is going to be balm to my soul. I passed many teachers and
                        summer resorters going to the lecture halls and coming from them, and half
                        of them were bareheaded, so my state will not be so remarkable, until I can
                        get another hat."
                    "'God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to
                        perform,'" laughingly quoted Mrs. Jardine. "You
                        thought  losing that precious hat was a
                        calamity; but if you hadn't lost it, you probably would have slept
                        soundly while I died across the hall. My life is worth the price of a whole
                        millinery shop to me; I think you value the friendship we are developing; I
                        foresee I shall get a maid who will not disgrace me in public; you will have
                        a full summer here; now truly, isn't all this worth many
                        hats?"
                    "Of course! It's like a fairy tale," said Kate.
                        "Still, you didn't see the hat!"
                    "But you described it in a truly graphic manner," said Mrs.
                        Jardine.
                    "When I am the snowiest of great-grandmothers, I shall still be
                        telling small people about the outcome of my first attempt at
                        vanity," laughed Kate.
                    The third morning dawned in great beauty, a "misty, moisty
                        morning," Mrs. Jardine called it. The sun tried to shine but could
                        not quite pierce the intervening clouds, so on every side could be seen
                        exquisite pictures painted in delicate pastel colours. Kate, fresh and rosy,
                        wearing a blue chambray dress, was a picture well worth seeing. Mrs. Jardine
                        kept watching her so closely that Kate asked at last: "Have you
                        made up your mind, yet?"
                    "No, and I am afraid I never shall," answered Mrs. Jardine.
                        "You are rather an astonishing creature. You're so big, so
                        vital; you absorb knowledge like a sponge takes water"
                    "And for the same purpose," laughed Kate. "That it
                        may be used for the benefit of others. Tell me some more about me. I find me
                        such an interesting subject."
                    
                    "No doubt!" admitted Mrs. Jardine. "Not a doubt
                        about that! We are all more interested in ourselves than in any one else in
                        this world, until love comes; then we soon learn to love a man more than
                        life, and when a child comes we learn another love, so clear, so high, so
                        purifying, that we become of no moment at all, live only for those we
                        love."
                    "You speak for yourself, and a class of women like you,"
                        answered Kate gravely. "I'm very well acquainted with many
                        women who have married and borne children, and who are possibly more selfish
                        than before. The Great Experience never touched them at all."
                    There was a tap at the door. Kate opened it and delivered to Mrs. Jardine a
                        box so big that it almost blocked the doorway.
                    Mrs. Jardine lifted from the box a big Leghorn hat of weave so white and fine
                        it almost seemed like woven cloth instead of braid. There was the bow in
                        front, but the bow was nested in and tied through a web of flowered gold
                        lace. One velvet end was slightly long and concealed a wire which lifted one
                        side of the brim a trifle, beneath which was fastened a smashing big,
                        pale-pink velvet rose. There was an ostrich plume even longer than the
                        other, broader, blacker, as wonderful a feather as ever dropped from the
                        plumage of a lordly bird. Mrs. Jardine shook the hat in such a way as to set
                        the feather lifting and waving after the confinement of the box. With
                        slender, sure fingers she set the bow and lace as they should be, and  touched the petals of the rose. She inspected
                        the hat closely, shook it again, and held it toward Kate.
                    "A very small price to pay for the breath of life, which I was
                        rapidly losing," she said. "Do me the favour to accept it
                        as casually as I offer it. Did I understand your description anywhere near
                        right? Is this your hat?"
                    "Thank you," said Kate. "It is just 'the
                        speaking image' of my hat, but it's a glorified,
                        sublimated, celestial image. What I described was merely a hat. This is what
                        I think I have lately heard Nancy Ellen mention as a
                        'creation.' Wheuuuuuu!"
                    She went to the mirror, arranged her hair, set the hat on her head, and
                        turned.
                    "Gracious Heaven!" said Mrs. Jardine. "My dear, I
                        understand now why you wore that hat on your
                        journey."
                    "I wore that hat," said Kate, "as an ascension
                        stalk wears its crown of white lilies, as a bobolink wears its snowy
                        courting crest, as a bride wears her veil; but please take this from me
                        to-night, lest I sleep in it!"
                    That night Mrs. Jardine felt tired enough to propose resting in her room,
                        with Jennie Weeks where she could be called; so for the first time Kate left
                        her, and, donning her best white dress and the hat, attended a concert. At
                        its close she walked back to the hotel with some of the other teachers
                        stopping there, talked a few minutes in the hall, went to the office desk
                        for mail, and slowly ascended the stairs, thinking intently. What she
                        thought was: "If I am not mistaken, my hat did a small bit of
                        execution tonight."  She stepped to
                        her room to lock the door and stopped a few minutes to arrange the clothing
                        she had discarded when she dressed hurriedly before going to the concert,
                        then, the letters in her hand, she opened Mrs. Jardine's door.
                    A few minutes before, there had been a tap on that same door.
                    "Come in," said Mrs. Jardine, expecting Kate or Jennie
                        Weeks. She slowly lifted her eyes and faced a tall, slender man standing
                        there.
                    "John Jardine, what in this world are you doing here?" she
                        demanded after the manner of mothers, "and what in this world has
                        happened to you?"
                    "Does it show on me like that?" he stammered.
                    "Was your train in a wreck? Are you in trouble?" she asked.
                        "Something shows plainly enough, but I don't understand
                        what it is."
                    "Are you all right, Mother?" He advanced a step, looking
                        intently at her.
                    "Of course I'm all right! You can see that for yourself.
                        The question is, what's the matter with you?"
                    "If you will have it, there is something the matter. Since I saw you
                        last I have seen a woman I want to marry, that's all; unless I add
                        that I want her so badly that I haven't much sense left. Now you
                        have it!"
                    "No, I don't have it, and I won't have it! What
                        designing creature has been trying to intrigue you now?" she
                        demanded.
                    "Not any one. She didn't see me, even. I saw her.  I've been following her for nearly
                        two hours instead of coming straight to you, as I always have. So you see
                        where I am. I expect you won't forgive me, but since. I'm
                        here, you must know that I could only come on the evening train."
                    He crossed the room, knelt beside the chair, and took it and its contents
                        into his arms.
                    "Are you going to scold me?" he asked.
                    "I am," she said. "I am going to take you out and
                        push you into the deepest part of the lake. I'm so disappointed.
                        Why, John, for the first time in my life I've selected a girl for
                        you, the very most suitable girl I ever saw, and I hoped and hoped for three
                        days that when you came you'd like her. Of course I wasn't
                        so rash as to say a word to her! But I've thought myself into a
                        state where I'm going to be sick with disappointment."
                    "But wait, Mother, wait until I can manage to meet the girl
                        I've seen. Wait until I have a chance to show her to you!"
                        he begged.
                    "I suppose I shall be forced," she said.
                        "I've always dreaded it, now here it comes. Oh, why
                        couldn't it have been Kate? Why did she go to that silly concert?
                        If only I'd kept her here, and we'd walked down to the
                        station. I'd half a mind to!"
                    Then the door opened, and Kate stepped into the room. She stood still,
                        looking at them. John Jardine stood up, looking at her. His mother sat
                        staring at them in turn. Kate recovered first.
                    "Please excuse me," she said.
                    
                    She laid the letters on a small table and turned to go. John caught his
                        Mother's hand closer, when he found himself holding it.
                    "If you know the young lady, Mother," he said,
                        "why don't you introduce us?"
                    "Oh, I was so bewildered by your coming," she said.
                        "Kate, dear, let me present my son."
                    Kate crossed the room, and looking straight into each other's eyes
                        they shook hands and found chairs.
                    "How was your concert, my dear?" asked Mrs. Jardine.
                    "I don't think it was very good," said Kate.
                        "Not at all up to my expectations. How did you like it, Mr.
                        Jardine?"
                    "Was that a concert?" he asked.
                    "It was supposed to be," said Kate.
                    "Thank you for the information," he said. "I
                        didn't see it, I didn't hear it, I don't know
                        where I was."
                    "This is most astonishing," said Kate.
                    Mrs. Jardine looked at her son, her eyes two big imperative question marks.
                        He nodded slightly.
                    "My soul!" she cried, then lay back in her chair
                        half-laughing, half-crying, until Kate feared she might have another attack
                        of heart trouble.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    JOHN JARDINE'S COURTSHIP
                    
                    
                        THE following morning they breakfasted together under the
                        branches of the big maple tree in a beautiful world. Mrs. Jardine was so
                        happy she could only taste a bite now and then, when urged to. Kate was
                        trying to keep her head level, and be natural. John Jardine wanted to think
                        of everything, and succeeded fairly well. It seemed to Kate that he could
                        invent more ways to spend money, and spend it with freer hand, than any man
                        she ever had heard of, but she had to confess that the men she had heard
                        about were concerned with keeping their money, not scattering it.
                    "Did you hear unusual sounds when John came to bid me
                        good-night?" asked Mrs. Jardine of Kate.
                    "Yes," laughed Kate, "I did. And I'm sure
                        I made a fairly accurate guess as to the cause."
                    "What did you think?" asked Mrs. Jardine.
                    "I thought Mr. Jardine had missed Susette, and you'd had to
                        tell him," said Kate.
                    "You're quite right. It's a good thing she went on
                        and lost herself in New York. I'm not at all sure that he
                        doesn't contemplate starting out to find her yet."
                    "Let Susette go!" said Kate. "We're
                        interested in  forgetting her.
                        There's a little country school-teacher here, who wants to take her
                        place, and it will be the very thing for your mother and for her, too.
                        She's the one serving us; notice her in particular."
                    "If she's a teacher, how does she come to be serving
                        us?" he asked.
                    "I'm a teacher; how do I come to be dining with
                        you?" said Kate. "This is such a queer world, when you go
                        adventuring in it. Jennie had a small school in an out county, a widowed
                        mother and a big family to help support; so she figured that the only way
                        she could come here to try to prepare herself for a better school was to
                        work for her room and board. She serves the table two hours, three times a
                        day, and studies between times. She tells me that almost every waiter in the
                        dining hall is a teacher. Please watch her movements and manner and see if
                        you think her suitable. Goodness knows she isn't intended for a
                        teacher."
                    "I like her very much," said John Jardine.
                        "I'll engage her as soon as we finish."
                    Kate smiled, but when she saw the ease and dexterity with which he ended
                        Jennie Weeks' work as a waiter and installed her as his
                        mother's maid, making the least detail all right with his mother,
                        with Jennie, with the manager, she realized that there had been nothing for
                        her to smile about. Jennie was delighted, and began her new undertaking
                        earnestly, with sincere desire to please. Kate helped her all she could,
                        while Mrs Jardine developed a fund of patience commensurate with the need of
                        it.
                    
                    She would have endured more inconvenience than resulted from
                        Jennie's inexperienced hands because of the realization that her
                        son and the girl she had so quickly learned to admire were on the lake,
                        rambling the woods, or hearing lectures together.
                    When she asked him how long he could remain, he said as long as she did. When
                        she explained that she was enjoying herself thoroughly and had no idea how
                        long she would want to stay, he said that was all right; he had only had one
                        vacation in his life; it was time he was having another. When she marvelled
                        at this he said: "Now, look here, Mother, let's get this
                        business straight, right at the start. I told you when I came I'd
                        seen the woman I wanted. If you want me to go back to business, the way to
                        do it is to help me win her."
                    "But I don't want you 'to go back to
                        business'; I want you to have a long vacation, and learn all you
                        can from the educational advantages here."
                    "It's too late for me to learn more than I get every day by
                        knocking around and meeting people. I've tried books two or three
                        times, and I've given them up; I can't do it.
                        I've waited too long, I've no way to get down to it, I
                        can't remember to save my soul."
                    "But you can remember anything on earth about a business
                        deal," she urged.
                    "Of course I can. I was born with a business head. It was remember,
                        or starve, and see you starve. If I'd had the books at the time
                        they would have helped; now it's too late, and I'll never
                        try it again, that's settled. Much 
                        as I want to marry Miss Bates, she'll have to take me or leave me
                        as I am. I can't make myself over for her or for you. I would if I
                        could, but that's one of the things I can't do, and I
                        admit it. If I'm not good enough for her as I am, she'll
                        have the chance to tell me so the very first minute I think it's
                        proper to ask her."
                    "John, you are good enough for the best woman on earth. There never
                        was a better lad, it isn't that, and you know it. I am so anxious
                        that I can scarcely wait; but you must wait. You must give her time and go
                        slowly, and you must be careful, oh, so very careful! she's a
                        teacher and a student; she came here to study."
                    "I'll fix that. I can rush things so that there'll
                        be no time to study."
                    "You'll make a mistake if you try it. You'd far
                        better let her go her own way and only appear when she has time for
                        you," she advised.
                    "That's a fine idea!" he cried. "A lot of
                        ice I'd cut, sitting back waiting for a signal to run after a girl,
                        like a poodle. The way to do is the same as with any business deal. See what
                        you want, overcome anything in your way, and get it. I'd go crazy
                        hanging around like that. You've always told me I couldn't
                        do the things in business I said I would; and I've always proved to
                        you that I could, by doing them. Now watch me do this."
                    "You know I'll do anything to help you, John. You know how
                        proud I am of you, how I love you! I realize now that I've talked
                        volumes to Kate about you. I've  told
                        her everything from the time you were a little boy and I slaved for you,
                        until now, when you slave for me."
                    "Including how many terms I'd gone to school?"
                    "Yes, I even told her that," she said.
                    "Well, what did she seem to think about it?" he asked.
                    "I don't know what she thought, she didn't say
                        anything. There was nothing to say. It was a bare-handed fight with the wolf
                        in those days. I'm sure I made her understand that," she
                        said.
                    "Well, I'll undertake to make her understand
                        this," he said. "Are you sure that Jennie Weeks is taking
                        good care of you?"
                    "Jennie is well enough and is growing better each day, now be off to
                        your courting, but if you love me, remember, and be careful," she
                        said.
                    "Rememberone particular thingyou mean?" he asked.
                    She nodded, her lips closed.
                    "You bet I will!" he said. "All there is of me
                        goes into this. Isn't she a wonder, Mother?"
                    Mrs. Jardine looked closely at the big man who was all the world to her, so
                        like her in mentality, so like his father with his dark hair and eyes and
                        big, well-rounded frame; looked at him with the eyes of love, then as he
                        left her to seek the girl she had learned to love, she shut her eyes and
                        frankly and earnestly asked the Lord to help her son to marry Kate Bates.
                    One morning as Kate helped Mrs. Jardine into her coat and gloves, preparing
                        for one of their delightful  morning drives,
                        she said to her: "Mrs. Jardine, may I ask you a real question?"
                    "Of course you may," said Mrs. Jardine, "and I
                        shall give you a 'real' answer if it lies in my
                        power."
                    "You'll be shocked," warned Kate.
                    "Shock away," laughed Mrs. Jardine. "By now I
                        flatter myself that I am so accustomed to you that you will have to try
                        yourself to shock me."
                    "It's only this," said Kate: "If you were
                        a perfect stranger, standing back and looking on, not acquainted with any of
                        the parties, merely seeing things as they happen each day, would it be your
                        honest opinionwould you say that I am being courted?"
                    Mrs. Jardine laughed until she was weak. When she could talk, she said:
                        "Yes, my dear, under the conditions, and in the circumstances you
                        mention, I would cheerfully go on oath and testify that you are being
                        courted more openly, more vigorously, and as tenderly as I ever have seen
                        woman courted in all my life. I always thought that John's father
                        was a master hand at courting, but John has him beaten in many ways. Yes, my
                        dear, you certainly are being courted assiduously."
                    "Now, then, on that basis," said Kate, "just one
                        more question and we'll proceed with our drive. From the same
                        standpoint: would you say from your observation and experience that the
                        mother of the man had any insurmountable objection to the
                        proceedings?"
                    Mrs. Jardine laughed again. Finally she said: "No,  my dear. It's my firm conviction
                        that the mother of the man in the case would be so delighted if you should
                        love and marry her son that she would probably have a final attack of heart
                        trouble and pass away from sheer joy."
                    "Thank you," said Kate. "I wasn't
                        perfectly sure, having had no experience whatever, and I didn't
                        want to make a mistake."
                    That drive was wonderful, over beautiful country roads, through dells, and
                        across streams and hills. They stopped where they pleased, gathering flowers
                        and early apples, visiting with people they met, lunching wherever they
                        happened to be.
                    "If it weren't for wishing to hear John A. Logan
                        tonight," said Kate, "I'd move that we drive on
                        all day. I certainly am having the grandest time."
                    She sat with her sailor hat filled with Early Harvest apples, a big bunch of
                        Canadian anemones in her belt, a little stream at her feet, July drowsy
                        fullness all around her, congenial companions; taking the "wings of
                        morning" paid, after all.
                    "Why do you want to hear him so much?" asked John Kate
                        looked up at him in wonder.
                    "Don't you want to see and hear him?" she asked.
                    He hesitated, a thoughtful expression on his face. Finally he said:
                        "I can't say that I do. Will you tell me why I
                        should?"
                    "You should because he was one of the men who did much to preserve
                        our Union, he may tell us interesting  things
                        about the war. Where were you when it was the proper time for you to be
                        studying the speech of Logan's ancestor in McGuffey's
                        Fourth?"
                    "That must have been the year I figured out the improved coupling
                        pin in the C. N. W. shops, wouldn't you think, Mother?"
                    "Somewhere near, my dear," she said.
                    So they drove back as happily as they had set out, made themselves fresh, and
                        while awaiting the lecture hour, Kate again wrote to Robert and Nancy Ellen,
                        telling plainly and simply all that had occurred. She even wrote
                        "John Jardine's mother is of the opinion that he is
                        courting me. I am so lacking in experience myself that I scarcely dare
                        venture an opinion, but it has at times appealed to me that if he
                        isn't really, he certainly must be going through the
                        motions."
                    Nancy Ellen wrote: 
                            
                                
                                    I have read over what you say about John Jardine several
                                        times. Then I had Robert write Bradstreet's and
                                        look him up. He is rated so high that if he hasn't
                                        a million right now, he soon will have. You be careful, and
                                        do your level best. Are your clothes good enough? Shall I
                                        send more of my things? You know I'll do anything
                                        to help you. Oh, yes, that George Holt from your boarding
                                        place was here the other day hunting you. He seemed
                                        determined to know where you were and when you would be
                                        back, and asked for your address. I didn't think
                                        you had any time for him and I couldn't endure him
                                        or his foolish talk about a new medical theory; so I said
                                        you'd no time for writing and were going about so
                                        much I had no idea if you'd get a letter if he sent
                                        one, and I didn't give him what he wanted.
                                        He'll probably try general delivery,  but you can drop it in the
                                        lake. I want you to be sure to change your boarding place
                                        this winter, if you teach; but I haven't an idea
                                        you will. Hadn't you better bring matters to a
                                        close if you can, and let the Director know? Love from us
                                        both,
                                    
                                        NANCY ELLEN.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Kate sat very still, holding this letter in her hand, when John Jardine came
                        up and sat beside her. She looked at him closely. He was quite as good
                        looking as his mother thought him, in a brawny masculine way; but Kate was
                        not seeking the last word in mental or physical refinement. She was rather
                        brawny herself, and perfectly aware of the fact. She wanted intensely to
                        learn all she could, she disliked the idea that any woman should have more
                        stored in her head than she, but she had no time to study minute social
                        graces and customs. She wanted to be kind, to be polite, but she told Mrs.
                        Jardine flatly that "she didn't give a flip about being
                        overly nice," which was the exact truth. That required subtleties
                        beyond Kate's depth, for she was at times alarmingly casual. So she
                        held her letter and thought about John Jardine. As she thought, she decided
                        that she did not know whether she was in love with him or not; she thought
                        she was. She liked being with him, she liked all he did for her, she would
                        miss him if he went away, she would be proud to be his wife, but she did
                        wish that he were interested in land, instead of inventions and stocks and
                        bonds. Stocks and bonds were almost as evanescent as rainbows to Kate. Land
                        was something she could understand and handle. Maybe she could  interest him in land; if she could, that
                        would be ideal. What a place his wealth would buy and fit up. She wondered
                        as she studied John Jardine, what was in his head; if he truly intended to
                        ask her to be his wife, and since reading Nancy Ellen's letter,
                        when? She should let the Trustee know if she were not going to teach the
                        school again; but someway, she rather wanted to teach the school. When she
                        started anything she did not know how to stop until she finished. She had so
                        much she wanted to teach her pupils the coming winter.
                    Suddenly John asked: "Kate, if you could have anything you wanted,
                        what would you have?"
                    "Two hundred acres of land," she said.
                    "How easy!" laughed John, rising to find a seat for his
                        mother who was approaching them. "What do you think of that,
                        Mother? A girl who wants two hundred acres of land more than anything else
                        in the world."
                    "What is better?" asked Mrs. Jardine.
                    "I never heard you say anything about land before."
                    "Certainly not," said his mother, "and
                        I'm not saying anything about it now, for myself; but I can see why
                        it means so much to Kate, why it's her natural element.
                    "Well, I can't," he said. "I meet many
                        men in business who started on land, and most of them were mighty glad to
                        get away from it. What's the attraction?"
                    Kate waved her hand toward the distance.
                    "Oh, merely sky, and land, and water, and trees, and birds, and
                        flowers, and fruit, and crops, and a few other things scarcely worth
                        mentioning," she said,  lightly.
                        "I'm not in the mood to talk bushels, seed, and
                        fertilization just now; but I understand them, they are in my blood. I think
                        possibly the reason I want two hundred acres of land for myself is because
                        I've been hard on the job of getting them for other people ever
                        since I began to work, at about the age of four."
                    "But if you want land personally, why didn't you work to
                        get it for yourself?" asked John Jardine.
                    "Because I happened to be the omega of my father's
                        system," answered Kate.
                    Mrs. Jardine looked at her interestedly. She had never mentioned her home or
                        her parents before. The older woman did not intend to ask a word, but if
                        Kate was going to talk, she did not want to miss one. Kate evidently was
                        going to talk, for she continued: "You see my father is land mad,
                        and son crazy. He thinks a boy of all the importance in
                        the world; a girl of none whatever. He has the biggest
                        family of any one we know. From birth each girl is worked like a man, or a
                        slave, from four in the morning until nine at night. Each boy is worked
                        exactly the same way; the difference lies in the fact that the girls get
                        plain food and plainer clothes out of it; the boys each get two hundred
                        acres of land, buildings and stock, that the girls have been worked to the
                        limit to help pay for; they get nothing personally, worth mentioning. I
                        think I have two hundred acres of land on the brain, and I think this is the
                        explanation of it. It's a pre-natal influence at our house; while
                        we nurse, eat, sleep, and above all, work it,
                        afterward."
                    
                    She paused and looked toward John Jardine calmly: "I
                        think," she said, "that there's not a task ever
                        performed on a farm that I haven't had my share in. I have plowed,
                        hoed, seeded, driven reapers and bound wheat, pitched hay and hauled manure,
                        chopped wood and sheared sheep, and boiled sap; if you can mention anything
                        else, go ahead, I bet a dollar I've done it."
                    "Well, what do you think of that?" he muttered, looking at
                        her wonderingly.
                    "If you ask me, and want the answer in plain words, I think
                        it's a shame!" said Kate. "If it were one hundred acres of land, and the girls had as much, and
                        were as willing to work for it as the boys are, well and good. But to drive
                        us like cattle, and turn all we earn into land for the boys, is another
                        matter. I rebelled last summer, borrowed the money and went to Normal and
                        taught last winter. I'm going to teach again this winter; but last
                        summer and this are the first of my life that I haven't been in the
                        harvest field, at this time. Women in the harvest fields of Land King Bates
                        are common as men, and wagons, and horses, but not nearly so much
                        considered. The women always walk on Sunday, to save the horses, and often
                        on week days."
                    "Mother has it hammered into me that it isn't polite to ask
                        questions," said John, "but I'd like to ask
                        one."
                    "Go ahead," said Kate. "Ask fifty! What do I
                        care?"
                    "How many boys are there in your family?"
                    "There are seven," said Kate, "and if you want to
                        use them as a basis for a land estimate add two hundred  and fifty for the home place. Sixteen hundred and fifty is
                        what Father pays tax on, besides numerous mortgages and investments.
                        He's the richest man in the county we live in; at least he pays the
                        most taxes."
                    Mother and son looked at each other in silence. They had been thinking her so
                        poor that she would be bewildered by what they had to offer. But if two
                        hundred acres of land were her desire, there was a possibility that she was
                        a woman who was not asking either ease or luxury of life, and would refuse
                        it if it were proffered.
                    "I hope you will take me home with you, and let me see all that
                        land, and how it is handled," said John Jardine. "I
                        don't own an acre. I never even have thought of it, but there is no
                        reason why I, or any member of my family shouldn't have all the
                        land they want. Mother, do you feel a wild desire for two hundred acres of
                        land? Same kind of a desire that took you to come here?"
                    "No, I don't," said Mrs. Jardine. "All I
                        know about land is that I know it when I see it, and I know if I think
                        it's pretty; but I can see why Kate feels that she would like that
                        amount for herself, after having helped earn all those farms for her
                        brothers. If it's land she wants, I hope she speedily gets all she
                        desires in whatever location she wants it; and then I hope she lets me come
                        to visit her and watch her do as she likes with it."
                    "Surely," said Kate "you are invited right now; as
                        soon as ever I get the land, I'll give you another invitation. And
                        of course you may go home with me, Mr. Jardine, and I'll show you
                        each of what Father calls 'those little  parcels of land of mine.' But the one he lives on we
                        shall have to gaze at from afar, because I'm a Prodigal Daughter.
                        When I would leave home in spite of him for the gay and riotous life of a
                        school-marm, he ordered me to take all my possessions with me, which I did
                        in one small telescope. I was not to enter his house again while he lived. I
                        was glad to go, he was glad to have me, while I don't think either
                        of us has changed our mind since. Teaching school isn't exactly
                        gay, but I'll fill my tummy with quite a lot of symbolical husks
                        before he'll kill the fatted calf for me. They'll be glad
                        to see you at my brother Adam's, and my sister, Nancy Ellen, would
                        greatly enjoy meeting you. Surely you may go home with me, if you'd
                        like."
                    I can think of only one thing I'd like better," he said.
                        "We've been such good friends here and had such a good
                        time, it would be the thing I'd like best to take you home with us,
                        and show you where and how we live. Mother, did you ever invite Kate to
                        visit us?"
                    "I have, often, and she has said that she would," replied
                        Mrs. Jardine. "I think it would be nice for her to go from here
                        with us; and then you can take her home whenever she fails to find us
                        interesting. How would that suit you for a plan, my dear?"
                    "I think that would be a perfect ending to a perfect
                        summer," said Kate. "I can't see an objection in
                        any way. Thank you very much."
                    "Then we'll call that settled," said John
                    Jardine.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    A BUSINESS PROPOSITION
                    
                    
                        MID-AUGUST saw them on their way to Chicago. Kate had
                        taken care of Mrs. Jardine a few days while Jennie Weeks went home to see
                        her mother and arrange for her new work. She had no intention of going back
                        to school teaching. She preferred to brush Mrs. Jardine's hair,
                        button her shoes, write her letters, and read to her.
                    In a month, Jennie had grown so deft at her work and made herself so
                        appreciated, that she was practically indispensable to the elderly woman,
                        and therefore the greatest comfort to John. Immediately he saw that his
                        mother was properly cared for, sympathetically and even lovingly, he made it
                        his business to smooth Jennie's path in every way possible. In turn
                        she studied him, and in many ways made herself useful to him. Often she
                        looked long at him with large and speculative eyes as he sat reading
                        letters, or papers, or smoking.
                    The world was all right with Kate when they crossed the sand dunes as they
                        neared the city. She was sorry about the situation in her home, but she
                        smiled sardonically as she thought how soon her father would forget his
                        anger when he heard about the city home and 
                        the kind of farm she could have, merely by consenting to take it. She was
                        that sure of John Jardine; yet he had not asked her to marry him. He had
                        seemed on the verge of it a dozen times, and then had paused as if better
                        judgment told him it would be wise to wait a little longer. Now Kate had
                        concluded that there was a definite thing he might be waiting for, since
                        that talk about land.
                    She thought possibly she understood what it was. He was a business man; he
                        knew nothing else; he said so frankly. He wanted to show her his home, his
                        business, his city, his friends, and then he requiredhe had almost put it
                        into wordsthat he be shown her home and her people. Kate not only
                        acquiesced, she approved. She wanted to know as much of a man she married as
                        Nancy Ellen had known, and Robert had taken her to his home and told his
                        people she was his betrothed wife before he married her.
                    Kate's eyes were wide open and her brain busy, as they entered a
                        finely appointed carriage and she heard John say: "Rather sultry.
                        Home down the lake shore, George." She wished their driver had not
                        been named "George," but after all it made no difference.
                        There could not be a commoner name than John, and she knew of but one that
                        she liked better. For the ensuing three days she lived in a Lake Shore home
                        of wealth. She watched closely not to trip in the heavy rugs and carpets.
                        She looked at wonderful paintings and long shelves of books. She never had
                        touched such china, or tasted such  food or
                        seen so good service. She understood why John had opposed his
                        mother's undertaking the trip without him, for everyone in the
                        house seemed busy serving the little woman.
                    Jennie Weeks was frankly enchanted.
                    "My sakes!" she said to Kate. "If I'm not
                        grateful to you for getting me into a place like this. I wouldn't
                        give it up for all the school-teaching in the world. I'm going to
                        snuggle right in here, and make myself so useful I won't have to
                        leave until I die. I hope you won't turn me out when you come to
                        take charge."
                    "Don't you think you're presuming?" said
                        Kate.
                    Jennie drew back with a swift apology, but there was a flash in the little
                        eyes and a spiteful look on the small face as she withdrew.
                    Then Kate was shown each of John's wonderful inventions. To her they
                        seemed almost miracles, because they were so obvious, so simple, yet brought
                        such astounding returns. She saw offices and heard the explanation of big
                        business; but did not comprehend, farther than that when an invention was
                        completed, the piling up of money began. Before the week's visit
                        was over, Kate was trying to fit herself and her aims and objects of life
                        into the surroundings, with no success whatever. She felt housed in,
                        cribbed, confined, frustrated. When she realized that she was becoming
                        plainly cross, she began keen self-analysis and soon admitted to herself
                        that she did not belong there.
                    Kate watched with keen eyes. Repeatedly she tried  to imagine herself in such surroundings for life, a life
                        sentence, she expressed it, for soon she understood that it would be to her,
                        a prison. The only way she could imagine herself enduring it at all was to
                        think of the promised farm, and when she began to think of that on Jardine
                        terms, she saw that it would mean to sit down and tell someone else what she
                        wanted done. There would be no battle to fight. Her mind kept harking back
                        to the day when she had said to John that she hoped there would be a lake on
                        the land she owned, and he had answered casually: "If there
                        isn't a lake, make one!" Kate thought that over
                        repeatedly. "Make one!" Make a lake? It would have seemed
                        no more magical to her if he had said, "Make a cloud,"
                        "Make a star," or "Make a rainbow."
                        "What on earth would I do with myself, with my time, with my
                        life?" pondered Kate.
                    She said "Good-bye" to Mrs. Jardine and Jennie Weeks, and
                        started home with John, still pondering. When the train pulled into Hartley,
                        Nancy Ellen and Robert were on the platform to meet them. From that time,
                        Kate was on solid ground. She was reckoning in terms she could comprehend.
                        All her former assurance and energy came back to her. She almost wished the
                        visit were over, and that she were on the way to Walton to clean the
                        school-house. She was eager to roll her sleeves and beat a tub of soapy
                        clothes to foam, and boil them snowy white. She had a desire she could
                        scarcely control to sweep, and dust, and cook. She had been out of the
                        environment she thought she disliked and found when she returned to  it after a wider change than she could have
                        imagined, that she did not dislike it at all. It was her element, her work,
                        what she knew. She could attempt it with sure foot, capable hand, and
                        certain knowledge.
                    Sunday morning she said to Nancy Ellen as they washed the breakfast dishes,
                        while the men smoked on the veranda: "Nancy Ellen, I don't
                        believe I was ever cut out for a rich woman! If I have got a chance, I wish
                            you had it, and I had this. This
                        just suits my style to a T."
                    "Tell me about it," said Nancy Ellen.
                    Kate told all she could remember.
                    "You don't mean to say you didn't like it?" cried Nancy Ellen.
                    "I didn't say anything," said Kate, "but
                        if I were saying exactly what I feel, you'd know I despise it
                        all."
                    "Why, Kate Bates!" cried the horrified Nancy Ellen,
                        "Whatever do you mean?"
                    "I haven't thought enough to put it to you
                        clearly," said Kate, "but someway the city repels me.
                        Facilities for manufacturing something start a city. It begins with the men
                        who do the work, and the men who profit from that work, living in the same
                        coop. It expands, and goes on, and grows, on that basis. It's the
                        laborer, living on his hire, and the manufacturer living on the
                        laborer's productions, coming in daily contact. The contrast is too
                        great, the space is too small. Somebody is going to get the life crowded out
                        of him at every turn, and it isn't always the work hand in the
                        factory. The money kings eat each other for breakfast every day. As for
                            work-
                         we always thought we worked. You should take
                        a peep into the shops and factories I've seen this week. Work? Why,
                        we don't know what work is, and we waste enough food every day to
                        keep a workman's family, and we're dressed like queens, in
                        comparison with them right now."
                    "Do you mean to say if he asks you?" It was a small
                        explosion.
                    "I mean to say if he asks me, 'buy me that two hundred
                        acres of land where I want it, build me the house and barns I want, and
                        guarantee that I may live there as I please, and I'll marry you
                        to-morrow.' If it's ChicagoNever! I haven't
                        stolen, murdered, or betrayed, why should I be imprisoned?"
                    "Why, you hopeless anarchist!" said Nancy Ellen.
                        "I am going to tell John Jardine on you."
                    "Do!" urged Kate. "Sound him on the land question.
                        It's our only hope of a common foundation. Have you sent Agatha
                        word that we will be out this afternoon?"
                    "I have," said Nancy Ellen. "And I don't
                        doubt that now, even now, she is in the kitchenhow would she put
                        it?"
                    "'Compounding a cake,'" said Kate,
                        "while Adam is in the cellar 'freezing a
                        custard.' Adam, 3d, will be raking the yard afresh and Susan will
                        be sweeping the walks steadily from now until they sight us coming down the
                        road. What you bet Agatha asks John his intentions? I almost wish she
                        would," she added. "He has some, but there is a string to
                        them in some way, and I can't just make out where, or why it
                        is."
                    
                    "Not even a guess?" asked Nancy Ellen.
                    "Not even a guess, with any sense to it. I've thought it
                        was coming repeatedly; but I've got a stubborn Bates streak, and I
                        won't lift a finger to help him. He'll speak up, loud and
                        plain, or there will be no 'connubial bliss' for us, as
                        Agatha says. I think he has ideas about other things than freight train
                        gear. According to his programme we must have so much time to become
                        acquainted, I must see his home and people, he must see mine. If
                        there's more after that, I'm not informed. Like as not
                        there is. It may come after we get back to-night, I can't
                        say."
                    "Have you told him?" asked Nancy Ellen.
                    "Not the details, but the essentials. He knows that I can't
                        go home. It came up one day in talking about land. I guess they had thought
                        before, that my people were poor as church mice. I happened to mention how
                        much land I had helped earn for my brothers, and they seemed so interested I
                        finished the job. Well, after they heard about the Land King, it made a
                        noticeable difference in their treatment of me. Not that they
                        weren't always fine, but it made, I scarcely know how to put it, it
                        was so intangiblebut it was a difference, an added respect. You bet money is
                        a power! I can see why Father hangs on to those deeds, when I get out in the
                        world. They are his compensation for his years of hard work, the material
                        evidence that he has succeeded in what he undertook. He'd show them
                        to John Jardine with the same feeling John showed me improved car couplers,
                        brakes,  and air cushions. They stand for
                        successes that win the deference of men. Out in the little bit of world
                        I've seen, I notice that men fight, bleed, and die for even a tiny
                        fraction of deference. Aren't they funny? What would I
                        care?"
                    "Well, I'd care a lot!" said
                        Nancy Ellen.
                    Kate surveyed her slowly. "Yes, I guess you would."
                    They finished the dishes and went to church, because Robert was accustomed to
                        going. They made a remarkable group. Then they went to the hotel for dinner,
                        so that the girls would not have to prepare it, and then in a double
                        carriage Robert had secured for the occasion, they drove to Bates Corners
                        and as Kate said, "Viewed the landscape o'er."
                        Those eight pieces of land, none under two hundred acres, some slightly
                        over, all in the very highest state of cultivation, with modern houses,
                        barns, outbuildings, and fine stock grazing in the pastures, made an
                        impressive picture. It was probably the first time that any of the Bates
                        girls had seen it all at once, and looked on it merely as a spectacle. They
                        stopped at Adam's last, and while Robert was busy with the team and
                        John had alighted to help him, Nancy Ellen, revealing tight lips and
                        unnaturally red cheeks, leaned back to Kate.
                    "This is about as mean a trick, and as big a shame as I've
                        ever seen," she said, hotly. "You know I was brought up
                        with this, and I never looked at it with the eyes of a stranger before. If
                        ever I get my fingers on those deeds I'll make short work of
                        them!"
                    
                    "And a good job, too!" assented Kate, instantly.
                        "Look out! There comes Adam."
                    "I'd just as soon tell him so as not!" whispered
                        Nancy Ellen.
                    "Which would result in the deeds being recorded tomorrow and
                        spoiling our trip to-day, and what good would it do you?" said
                        Kate.
                    "None, of course! Nothing ever does a Bates girl any good, unless
                        she gets out and does it for herself," retorted Nancy Ellen
                        spitefully.
                    "There, there," said Robert as he came to help Nancy Ellen
                        protect her skirts in alighting. "I was afraid this trip would
                        breed discontent."
                    "What's the trouble?" asked John, as he performed
                        the same service for Kate.
                    "Oh, the girls are grouching a little because they helped earn all
                        this, and are to be left out of it," explained Robert in a low
                        voice.
                    "Let's get each one of them a farm that will lay any of
                        these completely in the shade," suggested John.
                    "All right for you, if you can do it," said Robert,
                        laughing, "but I've gone my limit for the present.
                        Besides, if you gave each of them two hundred acres of the Kingdom of
                        Heaven, it wouldn't stop them from feeling that they had been
                        defrauded of their birthright here."
                    "How would you feel if you was served the same way?" asked
                        John, and even as she shook hands with Adam, and introduced John Jardine,
                        Kate found herself wishing that he had said "were."
                    
                    As the girls had predicted, the place was immaculate, the yard shady and cool
                        from the shelter of many big trees, the house comfortable, convenient, the
                        best of everything in sight. Agatha and Susan were in new white dresses,
                        while Adam Jr. and 3d wore tan and white striped
                        seer--cker coats, and white duck trousers. It was not
                        difficult to feel a glow of pride in the place and people. Adam made them
                        cordially welcome.
                    "You undoubtedly are blessed with good fortune," said
                        Agatha. "Won't you please enlighten us concerning your
                        travels, Katherine?"
                    So Kate told them everything she could think of that she thought would
                        interest and amuse them, even outlining for Agatha speeches she had heard
                        made by Dr. Vincent, Chaplain McCabe, Jehu DeWitt Miller, a number of famous
                        politicians, teachers, and ministers. Then all of them talked about
                        everything. Adam took John and Robert to look over the farm, whereupon Kate
                        handed over her hat for Agatha to finger and try on.
                    "And how long will it be, my dear," said Agatha to Kate,
                        "before you enter connubial bliss?"
                    "My goodness! I'm glad you asked me that while the men are
                        at the barn," said Kate. "Mr. Jardine hasn't said
                        a word about it himself, so please be careful what you say before
                        him."
                    Agatha looked at Kate in wonder.
                    "You amaze me," she said. "Why, he regards you as
                        if he would devour you. He hasn't proposed for your  hand, you say? Surely you're not
                        giving him proper encouragement!"
                    "She isn't giving him any, further than allowing him to be
                        around," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "Do enlighten me!" cried the surprised Agatha.
                        "How astounding! Why, Kate, my dear, there is a just and proper
                        amount of encouragement that must be given any
                        self-respecting youth, before he makes his declarations. You surely know
                        that."
                    "No, I do not know it!" said Kate. "I thought it
                        was a man's place to speak up loud and plain and say what he had to
                        propose."
                    "Oh, dear!" wailed Agatha, wringing her thin hands, her
                        face a mirror of distress. "Oh, dear, I very much fear
                        'you will lose him. Why, Katherine, after a man has been to see you
                        a certain number of times, and evidenced enough interest in you, my dear,
                        there are a thousand strictly womanly ways in which you can lend his
                        enterprise a little, only a faint amount of encouragement, just enough to
                        allow him to recognize that he is notnoterrepulsive to you."
                    "But how many times must he come, and how much interest must he
                        evince?" asked Kate.
                    "I can scarcely name an exact number," said Agatha.
                        "That is personal. You must decide for yourself what is the
                        psychological moment at which he is to be taken. Have you even signified to
                        him that youthat youthat you could be induced, even to contemplate marriage?"
                    "Oh, yes," said Kate, heartily. "I told his mother
                             that it was the height of my ambition to
                        marry by the time I'm twenty. I told her I wanted a man as tall as
                        I am, two hundred acres of land, and at least twelve babies."
                    Agatha collapsed suddenly. She turned her shocked face toward Nancy Ellen.
                    "Great Day of Rest!" she cried. "No wonder the man
                        doesn't propose!"
                    When the men returned from their stroll, Agatha and Susan served them with
                        delicious frozen custard and Angel's food cake. Then they resumed
                        their drive, passing Hiram's place last. At the corner Robert
                        hesitated and then turned to ask: "Shall we go ahead,
                        Kate?"
                    "Certainly," said Kate. "I want Mr. Jardine to see
                        where I was born and spent my time of legal servitude. I suppose we
                        daren't stop. I doubt if Mother would want to see me, and I
                        haven't the slightest doubt that Father would not; but he has no jurisdiction over the road. It's the
                        shortest wayand besides, I want to see the lilac bush and the cabbage
                        roses."
                    As they approached the place Nancy Ellen turned.
                    "Father's standing at the gate. What shall we do?"
                    "There's nothing you can do, but to drive straight ahead
                        and you and Robert speak to him," said Kate. "Go fast,
                        Robert."
                    He touched the team and at fair speed they whirled past the white house, at
                        the gate of which, stiffly erect, stood a brawny man of six feet six, his
                        face ruddy and healthy in appearance. He was dressed as he prepared himself
                        to take a trip to pay his taxes, or to go to 
                        Court. He stood squarely erect, with stern, forbidding face, looking
                        directly at them. Robert spoke to him, and Nancy Ellen leaned forward and
                        waved, calling "Father," that she might be sure he knew
                        her, but he gave not the slightest sign of recognition. They carried away a
                        distinct picture of him, at his best physically and in appearance; at his
                        worst mentally.
                    "There you have it!" said Kate, bitterly.
                        "I'd be safe in wagering a thousand dollars, if I had it,
                        that Agatha or the children told, at Hiram's or to
                        Mother's girl, that we were coming. They knew we would pass about
                        this time. Mother was at the side door watching, and Father was in his
                        Sunday best, waiting to show us what would happen if we stopped, and that he
                        never changes his mind. It didn't happen by accident that he was
                        standing there dressed that way. What do you think, Nancy Ellen?"
                    "That he was watching for us!" said Nancy Ellen.
                    "But why do you suppose that he did it?" asked Kate.
                    He thought that if he were not standing guard there, we
                        might stop in the road and at least call Mother out. He wanted to be seen,
                        and seen at his best; but as always, in command, showing his
                        authority."
                    Don't mind," said John Jardine. "It's
                        easy to understand the situation."
                    "Thank you," said Kate. "I hope you'll
                        tell your mother that. I can't bear her to think that the trouble
                        is wholly my fault."
                    
                    "No danger of that," he said. "Mother thinks
                        there's nobody in all the world like you, and so do I."
                    Nancy Ellen kicked Robert's shin, to let him know that she heard.
                        Kate was very depressed for a time, but she soon recovered and they spent a
                        final happy evening together. When John had parted from Robert and Nancy
                        Ellen, with the arrangement that he was to come again the following Saturday
                        evening and spend Sunday with them, he asked Kate to walk a short distance
                        with him. He seemed to be debating some proposition in his mind, that he did
                        not know how to approach. Finally he stopped abruptly and said:
                        "Kate, Mother told me that she told you how I grew up. We have been
                        together most of every day for six weeks. I have no idea how a man used to
                        women goes at what I want, so I can only do what I think is right, and best,
                        and above all honest, and fair. I'd be the happiest I've
                        ever been, to do anything on earth I've got the money to do, for
                        you. There's a question I'm going to ask you the next time
                        I come. You can think over all you know of me, and of Mother, and of what we
                        have, and are, and be ready to tell me how you feel about everything next
                        Sunday. There's one question I want to ask you before I go. In case
                        we can plan for a life together next Sunday, what about my mother?"
                    "Whatever pleases her best, of course," said Kate.
                        "Any arrangement that you feel will make her happy, will be all
                        right with me; in the event we agree on other things."
                    He laughed, shortly.
                    
                    "This sounds cold-blooded and business-like," he said.
                        "But Mother's been all the world to me, until I met you. I
                        must be sure about her, and one other thing. I'll write you about
                        that this week. If that is all right with you, you can get ready for a
                        deluge. I've held in as long as I can. Kate, will you kiss me
                        good-bye?"
                    "That's against the rules," said Kate.
                        "That's getting the cart before the horse."
                    "I know it," he said. "But haven't I been
                        an example for six weeks? Only one. Please?"
                    They were back at Dr. Gray's gate, standing in the deep shelter of a
                        big maple. Kate said: "I'll make a bargain with you.
                        I'll kiss you to-night, and if we come to an agreement next Sunday
                        night, you shall kiss me. Is that all right?"
                    The reply was so indistinct Kate was not sure of it; but she took his face
                        between her hands and gave him exactly the same kind of kiss she would have
                        given Adam, 3d. She hesitated an instant, then giving him a second:
                        "You may take that to your mother," she said, and fled up
                        the walk.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    TWO LETTERS
                    
                    
                        NANCY ELLEN and Robert were sitting on the side porch, not
                        seeming in the least sleepy, when Kate entered the house. As she stepped out
                        to them, she found them laughing mysteriously.
                    "Take this chair, Kate," said Nancy Ellen. "Come
                        on, Robert, let's go stand under the maple and let her see whether
                        she can see us."
                    "If you're going to rehearse any momentous moment of your
                        existence," said Kate, "I shouldn't think of even
                        being on the porch. I shall keep discreetly in the house, even going at once
                        to bed. Good-night! Pleasant dreams!"
                    "Now we've made her angry," said Robert.
                    "I think there was 'a little touch of
                        asperity,' as Agatha would say, in that," said Nancy
                        Ellen, "but Kate has a good heart. She'll get over it
                        before morning."
                    "Would Agatha use such a common word as
                        'little'?" asked Robert.
                    "Indeed, no!" said Nancy Ellen. "She would say
                        'infinitesimal.' But all the same he kissed her."
                    "If she didn't step up and kiss him, never again shall I
                        trust my eyes!" said the doctor.
                    
                    "Hush!" cautioned Nancy Ellen. "She's
                        provoked now; if she hears that, she'll never forgive us."
                    Kate did not need even a hint to start her talking in the morning. The day
                        was fine, a snappy tinge of autumn in the air, her head and heart were full.
                        Nancy Ellen would understand and sympathize; of course Kate told her all
                        there was to tell.
                    "And even at that," said Nancy Ellen, "he
                        hasn't just come out right square and said 'Kate, will you
                        marry me?' as I understand it."
                    "Same here," laughed Kate. "He said he had to be
                        sure about his mother, and there was 'one other thing'
                        he'd write me about this week, and he'd come again next
                        Sunday; then if things were all right with methe deluge!"
                    "And what is 'the other thing?'" asked
                        Nancy Ellen.
                    "There he has me guessing. We had six long, lovely weeks of daily
                        association at the lake, I've seen his home, and his inventions,
                        and as much of his business as is visible to the eye of a woman who
                        doesn't know a tinker about business. His mother has told me
                        minutely of his life, every day since he was born, I think. She insists that
                        he never paid the slightest attention to a girl before, and he says the
                        same, so there can't be any hidden ugly feature to mar my joy. He
                        is thoughtful, quick, kind, a self-made business man. He looks well enough,
                        he acts like a gentleman, he seldom makes a mistake in speech"
                    "He doesn't say enough to make any
                        mistakes. 
                         haven't yet heard him talk freely,
                        give an opinion, or discuss a question," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "Neither have I," said Kate. "He's very
                        silent, thinking out more inventions, maybe. The worst thing about him is a
                        kind of hard-headed self-assurance. He got it fighting for his mother from
                        boyhood. He knew she would freeze and starve if he didn't take care
                        of her; he had to do it. He soon found he could. It took
                        money to do what he had to do. He got the money. Then he began performing
                        miracles with it. He lifted his mother out of poverty, he dressed her
                        'in purple and fine linen,' he housed her in the same kind
                        of home other rich men of the Lake Shore Drive live in, and gave her the
                        same kind of service. As most men do, when things begin to come their way,
                        he lived for making money alone. He was so keen on the chase he
                        wouldn't stop to educate and culture himself; he drove headlong on,
                        and on, piling up more, far more than any one man should be allowed to have;
                        so you can see that it isn't strange that he thinks
                        there's nothing on earth that money can't do. You can see
                            that sticking out all over him. At the hotel, on
                        boats, on the trains, anywhere we went, he pushed straight for the most
                        conspicuous place, the most desirable thing, the most expensive. I almost
                        prayed sometimes that in some way he would strike one single
                            thing that he couldn't make come his way with money; but
                        he never did. No. I haven't an idea what he has in his mind yet,
                        but he's going to write me about it this week, and if I agree to
                        whatever it is, he is coming  Sunday; then he
                        has threatened me with a 'deluge, whatever he means by
                        that."
                    "He means providing another teacher for Walden, taking you to
                        Chicago shopping for a wonderful trousseau, marrying you in his Lake Shore
                        palace, no doubt."
                    "Well, if that's what he means by a
                        'deluge,'" said Kate, "he'll
                        find the flood coming his way. He'll strike the first thing he
                        can't do with money. I shall teach my school this winter as I
                        agreed to. I shall marry him in the clothes I buy with what I earn. I shall
                        marry him quietly, here, or at Adam's, or before a Justice of the
                        Peace, if neither of you wants me. He can't pick me up, and carry
                        me away, and dress me, and marry me, as if I were a pauper."
                    "You're right about it," said
                        Nancy Ellen. "I don't know how we came to be so different.
                        I should do at once any way he suggested to get such a fine-looking man and
                        that much money. That it would be a humiliation to me all my after life, I
                        wouldn't think about until the humiliation began, and then
                        I'd have no way to protect myself. You're right! But
                        I'd get out of teaching this winter if I could. I'd love
                        to have you here."
                    "But I must teach to earn the money for my outfit. I'll
                        have to go back to school in the same old sailor."
                    "Don't you care," laughed Nancy Ellen.
                        "We know a secret!"
                    "That we do!" agreed Kate.
                    Wednesday Kate noticed Nancy Ellen watching for the boy Robert had promised
                        to send with the mail as soon as  it was
                        distributed, because she was, herself. Twice Thursday, Kate hoped in vain
                        that the suspense would be over. It had to end Friday, if John were coming
                        Saturday night. She began to resent the length of time he was waiting. It
                        was like him to wait until the last minute, and then depend on money to
                        carry him through.
                    "He is giving me a long time to think things over," Kate
                        said to Nancy Ellen when there was no letter in the afternoon mail Thursday.
                    "It may have been lost or delayed," said Nancy Ellen.
                        "It will come to-morrow, surely."
                    Both of them saw the boy turn in at the gate Friday morning. Each saw that he
                        carried more than one letter. Nancy Ellen was on her feet and nearer to the
                        door; she stepped to it, and took the letters, giving them a hasty glance as
                        she handed them to Kate.
                    "Two," she said tersely. "One, with the address
                        written in the clear, bold hand of a gentleman, and one, the straggle of a
                        country clod-hopper."
                    Kate smiled as she took the letters: "I'll wager my hat,
                        which is my most precious possession," she said, "that the
                        one with the beautifully written address comes from the
                        'clod-hopper,' and the 'straggle' from
                        the 'gentleman.'"
                    She glanced at the stamping and addresses and smiled again: "So it
                        proves," she said. "While I'm about it,
                        I'll see what the 'clod-hopper' has to say, and
                        then I shall be free to give my whole attention to the
                        'gentleman.'"
                    "Oh, Kate, how can you!" cried Nancy Ellen.
                    
                    "Way I'm made, I 'spect," said Kate.
                        "Anyway, that's the way this is going to be
                        done."
                    She dropped the big square letter in her lap and ran her finger under the
                        flap of the long, thin, beautifully addressed envelope, and drew forth
                        several quite as perfectly written sheets. She read them slowly and
                        deliberately, sometimes turning back a page and going over a part of it
                        again. When she finished, she glanced at Nancy Ellen while slowly folding
                        the sheets. "Just for half a cent I'd ask you to read
                        this," she said.
                    "I certainly shan't pay anything for the privilege, but
                        I'll read it, if you want me to," offered Nancy Ellen.
                    "All right, go ahead," said Kate. "It might
                        possibly teach you that you can't always judge a man by appearance,
                        or hastily; though just why George Holt looks more like a
                        'clod-hopper' than Adam, or Hiram, or Andrew, it passes me
                        to tell."
                    She handed Nancy Ellen the letter and slowly ripped open the flap of the
                        heavy white envelope. She drew forth the sheet and sat an instant with it in
                        her fingers, watching the expression of Nancy Ellen's face, while
                        she read the most restrained yet impassioned plea that a man of George
                        Holt's nature and opportunities could devise to make to a woman
                        after having spent several months in the construction of it. It was a
                        masterly letter, perfectly composed, spelled, and written; for among his
                        other fields of endeavour, George Holt had taught several terms of country
                        school, and taught them with much success; so that he might have become a
                        fine instructor,  had it been in his blood to
                        stick to anything long enough to make it succeed. After a page as she turned
                        the second sheet Nancy Ellen glanced at Kate, and saw that she had not
                        opened the creased page in her hands. She flamed with sudden irritation.
                    "You do beat the band!" she cried.
                        "You've watched for two days and been provoked because
                        that letter didn't come. Now you've got it, there you sit
                        like a mummy and let your mind be so filled with this idiotic drivel that
                        you're not even reading John Jardine's letter that is to
                        tell you what both of us are crazy to know."
                    "If you were in any mood to be fair and honest, you'd admit
                        that you never read a finer letter than that,"
                        said Kate. "As for this, I never was so afraid in all my life. Look at that!"
                    She threw the envelope in Nancy Ellen's lap.
                    "That is the very first line of John Jardine's writing I
                        have ever seen," she said. "Do you see anything about it
                        to encourage me to go farther?"
                    "You goose!" cried the exasperated Nancy Ellen. "I
                        suppose he transacts so much business he scarcely ever puts pen to paper.
                        What's the difference how he writes? Look at what he is and what he
                        does! Go on and read his letter."
                    Kate arose and walked to the window, turning her back to Nancy Ellen, who sat
                        staring at her, while she read John Jardine's letter. Once Nancy
                        Ellen saw Kate throw up her head and twist her neck as if she were choking;
                        then she heard a great gulping sob down in her  throat; finally Kate turned and stared at her with dazed, incredulous
                        eyes. Slowly she dropped the letter, deliberately set her foot on it, and
                        leaving the room, climbed the stairs. Nancy Ellen threw George
                        Holt's letter aside and snatched up John Jardine's. She
                        read: 
                            
                                
                                    MY DEREST KATE: I am a day late with this becos as I told you
                                        I have no schooling and in writing a letter is where I prove
                                        it, so I never write them, but it was not fare to you for
                                        you not to know what kind of a letter I would write if I did
                                        write one, so here it is very bad no doubt but the best I
                                        can possably do which has got nothing at all to do with my
                                        pashion for you and the aughful time I will have till I here
                                        from you. If you can stand for this telagraf me and I will
                                        come first train and we will forget this and I will never
                                        write another letter. With derest love from Mother, and from
                                        me all the love of my hart.
                                    Forever your only, JOHN JARDINE.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    The writing would have been a discredit to a ten-year-old schoolboy. Nancy
                        Ellen threw the letter back on the floor; with a stiffly extended finger,
                        she poked it into the position in which she thought she had found it, and
                        slowly stepped back.
                    "Great God!" she said amazedly. "What does the man
                        mean? Where does that dainty and wonderful little mother come in? She must
                        be a regular parasite, to suck ease and comfort for herself out of him, and
                        not see that he had time and chance to do better than that
                        for himself. Kate will never endure it, never in the world! And by the luck
                        of the very Devil, there comes that school-proof thing in the same mail,
                        from that  abominable George Holt, and Kate
                        reads it first. It's too bad! I can't
                        believe it! What did his mother mean?"
                    Suddenly Nancy Ellen began to cry bitterly; between sobs she could hear Kate
                        as she walked from closet and bureau to her trunk which she was packing. The
                        lid slammed heavily and a few minutes later Kate entered the room dressed
                        for the street.
                    "Why are you weeping?" she asked casually.
                    Her eyes were flaming, her cheeks scarlet, and her lips twitching. Nancy
                        Ellen sat up and looked at her. She pointed to the letter: "I read
                        that," she said.
                    "Well, what do I care?" said Kate. "If he has no
                        more respect for me than to write me such an insult as that, why should I
                        have the respect for him to protect him in it? Publish it in the paper if
                        you want to."
                    "Kate, what are you going to do?" demanded Nancy Ellen.
                    "Three things," said Kate, slowly putting on her long silk
                        gloves. "First, I'm going to telegraph John Jardine that I
                        never shall see him again, if I can possibly avoid it. Second, I'm
                        going to send a drayman to get my trunk and take it to Walden. Third,
                        I'm going to start out and walk miles, I don't know or
                        care where; but in the end, I'm going to Walden to clean the
                        schoolhouse and get ready for my winter term of school."
                    "Oh, Kate, you are such a fine teacher! Teach him! Don't be
                        so hurried! Take more time to think. You will break his heart,"
                        pleaded Nancy Ellen.
                    Kate threw out both hands, palms down.
                    
                    "P-a-s-h, a-u-g-h,' h-a-r-t, d-o-u-t, d-e-r-e,"
                        she slowly spelled out the letters. "What about my heart and my
                        pride? Think I can respect that, or ask my children to respect it? But thank
                        you and Robert, and come after me as often as you can, as a mercy to me. If
                        John persists in coming, to try to buy me, as he thinks he can buy anything
                        he wants, you needn't let him come to Walden; for probably I
                        won't be there until I have to, and I won't see him, or
                        his mother, so he needn't try to bring her in. Say good-bye to
                        Robert for me."
                    She walked from the house, head erect, shoulders squared, and so down the
                        street from sight. In half an hour a truckman came for her trunk, so Nancy
                        Ellen made everything Kate had missed into a bundle to send with it. When
                        she came to the letters, she hesitated.
                    "I guess she didn't want them," she said.
                        "I'll just keep them awhile and if she doesn't
                        ask about them, the next time she comes, I'll burn them. Robert
                        must go after her every Friday evening, and we'll keep her until
                        Monday, and do all we can to cheer her; and this very day he must find out
                        all there is to know about that George Holt. That is the
                        finest letter I ever read; she does kind of stand up for him; and in the
                        reaction, impulsive as she is and self-confidentof course she
                        wouldn't, but you never can tell what kind of fool a girl will make
                        of herself, in some cases."
                    Kate walked swiftly, finished two of the errands she set out to do, then her
                        feet carried her three miles from  Hartley on
                        the Walden road, before she knew where she was, so she proceeded to the
                        village.
                    Mrs. Holt was not at home, but the house was standing open. Kate found her
                        room cleaned, shining, and filled with flowers. She paid the drayman, opened
                        her trunk, and put away her dresses, laying out all the things which needed
                        washing; then she bathed, put on heavy shoes, an old skirt and waist, and
                        crossing the road sat in a secluded place in the ravine and looked stupidly
                        at the water. She noticed that everything was as she had left it in the
                        spring, with many fresher improvements, made, no doubt, to please her. She
                        closed her eyes, leaned against a big tree, and slow, cold and hot shudders
                        alternated in shaking her frame.
                    She did not open her eyes when she heard a step and her name called. She knew
                        without taking the trouble to look that George had come home, found her
                        luggage in her room, and was hunting for her. She heard him come closer and
                        knew when he seated himself that he was watching her, but she did not care
                        enough even to move. Finally she shifted her position to rest herself,
                        opened her eyes, and looked at him without a word. He returned her gaze
                        steadily, smiling gravely. She had never seen him looking so well. He had
                        put in the summer grooming himself, he had kept up the house and garden, and
                        spent all his spare time on the ravine, and farming on the shares with his
                        mother's sister who lived three miles east of them. At last she
                        roused herself and again looked at him.
                    
                    "I had your letter this morning," she said.
                    "I was wondering about that," he replied.
                    "Yes, I got it just before I started," said Kate.
                        "Are you surprised to see me?"
                    "No," he answered. "After last year, we figured
                        you might come the last of this week or the first of next, so we got your
                        room ready Monday."
                    "Thank you," said Kate. "It's very clean
                        and nice."
                    "I hope soon to be able to offer you such a room and home as you
                        should have," he said. "I haven't opened my
                        office yet. It was late and hot when I got home in June and Mother was
                        fussing about this winterthat she had no garden and didn't do her
                        share at Aunt Ollie's, so I have farmed most of the summer, and
                        lived on hope; but I'll start in and make things fly this fall, and
                        by spring I'll be sailing around with a horse and carriage like the
                        best of them. You bet I am going to make things hum, so I can offer you
                        anything you want."
                    "You haven't opened an office yet?" she asked for
                        the sake of saying something, and because a practical thing would naturally
                        suggest itself to her.
                    "I haven't had a breath of time," he said in
                        candid disclaimer.
                    "Why don't you ask me what's the matter?"
                    "Didn't figure that it was any of my business in the first
                        place," he said, "and I have a pretty fair idea, in the
                        second."
                    "But how could you have?" she asked in surprise.
                    "When your sister wouldn't give me your address, she  hinted that you had all the masculine
                        attention you cared for; then Tilly Nepple visited town again last week and
                        she had been sick and called Dr. Gray. She asked him about you, and he told
                        what a fine time you had at Chautauqua and Chicago, with the rich new
                        friends you'd made. I was watching for you about this time, and I
                        just happened to be at the station in Hartley last Saturday when you got off
                        the train with your fine gentleman, so I stayed over with some friends of
                        mine, and I saw you several times Sunday. I saw that I'd
                        practically no chance with you at all; but I made up my mind I'd
                        stick until I saw you married to him, so I wrote just as I would if I
                        hadn't known there was another man in existence."
                    "That was a very fine letter," said Kate.
                    "It is a very fine, deep, sincere love that I am offering
                        you," said George Holt. "Of course I could see prosperity
                        sticking out all over that city chap, but it didn't bother me much,
                        because I knew that you, of all women, would judge a man on his worth. A
                        rising young professional man is not to be sneered at, at least until he
                        makes his start and proves what he can do. I couldn't get an early
                        start, because I've always had to work, just as you've
                        seen me last summer and this, so I couldn't educate myself so fast,
                        but I've gone as fast and far as I could."
                    Kate winced. This was getting on places that hurt and to matters she well
                        understood, but she was the soul of candour. "You did very well to
                        educate yourself as you have, with no help at all," she said.
                    
                    "I've done my best in the past, I'm going to do
                        marvels in the future, and whatever I do, it is all for you and yours for
                        the taking," he said grandiosely.
                    "Thank you," said Kate. "But are you making that
                        offer when you can't help seeing that I'm in deep
                        trouble?"
                    "A thousand times over," he said. "All I want to
                        know about your trouble is whether there is anything a man of my size and
                        strength can do to help you."
                    "Not a thing," said Kate, "in the direction of
                        slaying a gay deceiver, if that's what you mean. The extent of my
                        familiarities with John Jardine consists in voluntarily kissing him twice
                        last Sunday night for the first and last time, once for himself, and once
                        for his mother, whom I have since ceased to respect."
                    George Holt was watching her with eyes lynx-sharp, but Kate never saw it.
                        When she mentioned her farewell of Sunday night, a queer smile swept over
                        his face and instantly disappeared.
                    "I should think any girl might be permitted that much, in saying a
                        final good-bye to a man who had shown her a fine time for weeks,"
                        he commented casually.
                    "But I didn't know I was saying good-bye,"
                        explained Kate. "I expected him back in a week, and that I would
                        then arrange to marry him. That was the agreement we made then."
                    As she began to speak, George Holt's face flashed triumph at having
                        led her on; at what she said it fell perceptibly, but he instantly
                        controlled it and said casually: "In any event, it was your own
                        business."
                    
                    "It was," said Kate. "I had given no man the
                        slightest encouragement, I was perfectly free. John Jardine was courting me
                        openly in the presence of his mother and any one who happened to be around.
                        I intended to marry him. I liked him as much as any man need be liked. I
                        don't know whether it was the same feeling Nancy Ellen had for
                        Robert Gray or not, but it was a whole lot of feeling of some kind. I was
                        satisfied with it, and he would have been. I meant to be a good wife to him
                        and a good daughter to his mother, and I could have done much good in the
                        world and extracted untold pleasure from the money he would have put in my
                        power to handle. All was going 'merry as a marriage bell,'
                        and then this morning came my Waterloo, in the same post with your
                        letter."
                    "Do you know what you are doing?" cried George Holt
                        roughly, losing self-control with hope. "You are
                            proving to me, and admitting to yourself, that you never loved that man
                            at all. You were flattered, and tempted with position and riches,
                        but your heart was not his, or you would be mighty sure of
                        it, don't you forget that!"
                    "I'm not interested in analyzing exactly what I felt for
                        him," said Kate. "It made small difference then; it makes
                        none at all now. I would have married him gladly, and I would have been to
                        him all a good wife is to any man; then in a few seconds I turned squarely
                        against him, and lost my respect for him. You couldn't marry me to
                        him if he were the last and only man on earth; but it hurt terribly, let me
                        tell you that!"
                    
                    George Holt suddenly arose and went to Kate. He sat down close beside her and
                        leaned toward her.
                    "There isn't the least danger of my trying to marry you to
                        him," he said, "because I am going to marry you myself at
                        the very first opportunity. Why not now? Why not have a simple ceremony
                        somewhere at once, and go away until school begins, and forget him, having a
                        good time by ourselves? Come on, Kate, let's do it! We can go stay
                        with Aunt Ollie, and if he comes, trying to force himself on you,
                        he'll get what he deserves. He'll learn that there is
                        something on earth he can't buy with his money."
                    "But I don't love you," said Kate.
                    "Neither did you love him," retorted George Holt.
                        "I can prove it by what you say. Neither did you love him, but you
                        were going to marry him, and use all his wonderful power of position and
                        wealth, and trust to association to bring love. You can
                        try that with me. As for wealth, who cares? We are young and strong, and we
                        have a fine chance in the world. You go on and teach this year, and
                        I'll get such a start that by next year you can be riding around in
                        your carriage, proud as Pompey."
                    "Of course we could make it all right, as to a living,"
                        said Kate. "Big and strong as we are, but"
                    Then the torrent broke. At the first hint that she would consider his
                        proposal George Holt drew her to him and talked volumes of impassioned love
                        to her. He gave her no chance to say anything; he said all there was to say
                        himself; he urged that Jardine would come, and she  should not be there. He begged, he pleaded, he reasoned. Night
                        found Kate sitting on the back porch at Aunt Ollie's with a
                        confused memory of having stood beside the little stream with her hand in
                        George Holt's while she assented to the questions of a Justice of
                        the Peace, in the presence of the School Director and Mrs. Holt. She knew
                        that immediately thereafter they had walked away along a hot, dusty country
                        road; she had tried to eat something that tasted like salted ashes. She
                        could hear George's ringing laugh of exultation breaking out afresh
                        every few minutes; in sudden irritation at the latest loud guffaw she
                        clearly remembered one thing: in her dazed and bewildered state she had
                        forgotten to tell him that she was a Prodigal Daughter.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    THE BRIDE
                    
                    
                        ONLY one memory in the ten days that followed before her
                        school began ever stood out clearly and distinctly with Kate. That was the
                        morning of the day after she married George Holt. She saw Nancy Ellen and
                        Robert at the gate so she went out to speak with them. Nancy Ellen was
                        driving, she held the lines and the whip in her hands. Kate in dull apathy
                        wondered why they seemed so deeply agitated. Both of them stared at her as
                        if she might be a maniac.
                    "Is this thing in the morning paper true?" cried Nancy
                        Ellen in a high, shrill voice that made Kate start in wonder. She did not
                        take the trouble to evade by asking "what thing?" she
                        merely made assent with her head.
                    "You are married to thatthat" Nancy Ellen choked until she
                        could not say what.
                    "It's time to stop, since I am married to
                        him," said Kate, gravely.
                    "You rushed in and married him without giving Robert time to find
                        out and tell you what everybody knows about him?" demanded Nancy
                        Ellen.
                    "I married him for what I knew about him myself," said
                        Kate. "We shall do very well."
                    
                    "Do well!" cried Nancy. "Do well! You'll
                        be hungry and in rags the rest of your life."
                    "Don't, Nancy Ellen, don't!" plead
                        Robert. "This is Kate's affair, wait until you hear what
                        she has to say before you go further."
                    "I don't care what she has to say!" cried Nancy
                        Ellen. "I'm saying my say right now. This is a disgrace to
                        the whole Bates family. We may not be much, but there isn't a lazy,
                        gambling, drunken loafer among us, and there won't be so far as
                        I'm concerned."
                    She glared at Kate who gazed at her in wonder.
                    "You really married this lout?" she demanded.
                    "I told you I was married," said Kate, patiently, for she
                        saw that Nancy Ellen was irresponsible with anger.
                    "You're going to live with him, you're going to
                        stay in Walden to live?" she cried.
                    "That is my plan at present," said Kate.
                    "Well, see that you stay there," said
                        Nancy Ellen. "You can't bring thatthat creature to my
                        house, and if you're going to be his wife, you needn't
                        come yourself. That's all I've got to say to you, you
                        shameless, crazy"
                    "Nancy Ellen, you shall not!" cried Robert Gray, deftly
                        slipping the lines from her fingers, and starting the horse full speed. Kate
                        saw Nancy Ellen's head fall forward, and her hands lifted to cover
                        her face. She heard the deep, tearing sob that shook her, and then they were
                        gone. She did not know what to do, so she stood still in the hot sunshine,
                        trying to think; but  her brain refused to act
                        at her will. When the heat became oppressive, she turned back to the shade
                        of a tree, sat down, and leaned against it. There she got two things clear
                        after a time. She had married George Holt, there was nothing to do but make
                        the best of it. But Nancy Ellen had said that if she lived with him she
                        should not come to her home. Very well. She had to live with him, since she
                        had consented to marry him, so she was cut off from Robert and Nancy Ellen.
                        She was now a prodigal, indeed. And those things Nancy Ellen had saidshe was
                        wild with anger. She had been misinformed. Those things could not be true.
                    "Shouldn't you be in here helping Aunt Ollie?"
                        asked George's voice from the front step where he seated himself
                        with his pipe.
                    "Yes, in a minute," said Kate, rising. "Did you
                        see who came?"
                    "No. I was out doing the morning work. Who was it?" he
                        asked.
                    "Nancy Ellen and Robert," she answered.
                    He laughed hilariously: "Brought them in a hurry, didn't
                        we? Why didn't they come in?"
                    "They came to tell me," said Kate, slowly, "that
                        if I had married you yesterday, as I did, that they felt so disgraced that I
                        wasn't to come to their home again."
                    "'Disgraced?'" he cried, his colour
                        rising. "Well, what's the matter with me?"
                    "Not the things they said, I fervently hope."
                    "Well, they have some assurance to come out here and  talk about me, and you've got as
                        much to listen, and then come and tell me about it," he cried.
                    "It was over in a minute," said Kate.
                        "I'd no idea what they were going to say. They said it,
                        and went. Oh, I can't spare Nancy Ellen, she's all I
                        had!"
                    Kate sank down on the step and covered her face. George took one long look at
                        her, arose, and walked out of hearing. He went into the garden and watched
                        from behind a honeysuckle bush until he saw her finally lift her head and
                        wipe her eyes; then he sauntered back, and sat down on the step beside her.
                    "That's right," he said. "Cry it out, and
                        get it over. It was pretty mean of them to come out here and insult you, and
                        tell any lie they could think up, and then drive away and leave you; but
                        don't mind, they'll soon get over it. Nobody ever keeps up
                        a fuss over a wedding long."
                    "Nancy Ellen never told a lie in her life," said Kate.
                        "She has too much self-respect. What she said she thought was true. My only chance is that somebody has told her a
                        lie. You know best if they did."
                    "Of course they did," he broke in, glibly.
                        "Haven't you lived in the same house with me long enough
                        to know me better than any one else does?"
                    "You can live in the same house with people and know less about them
                        than any one else, for that matter," said Kate, "but
                        that's neither here nor there. We're in this together, we
                        got to get on the job and pull, and make a success out of it that will make
                        all of them proud to be our friends. That's the only thing left for
                        me. As I  know the Bates, once they make up
                        their minds, they never change. With Nancy Ellen and Father both down on me,
                        I'm a prodigal for sure."
                    "What?" he cried, loudly. "What? Is your father in
                        this, too? Did he send you word you couldn't come home, either?
                        This is a hell of a mess! Speak up!"
                    Kate closed her lips, looked at him with deep scorn, and walked around the
                        corner of the house. For a second he looked after her threateningly, then he
                        sprang to his feet, and ran to her, catching her in his arms.
                    "Forgive me, dearest," he cried. "That took the
                        wind out of my sails until I was a brute. You'd no business to say a thing like that. Of course we can't have
                        the old Land King down on us. We've got to have our share of that
                        land and money to buy us a fine home in Hartley, and fix me up the kind of
                        an office I should have. We'll borrow a rig and drive over
                        to-morrow and fix things solid with the old folks. You bet I'm a
                        star-spangled old persuader, look what I did with you"
                    "You stop!" cried Kate, breaking from his hold.
                        "You will drive me crazy! You're talking as if you married
                        me expecting land and money from it. I haven't been home in a year,
                        and my father would deliberately kill me if I went within his
                        reach."
                    "Well, score one for little old scratchin',
                        pickin', Mammy!" he cried. "She said you had a secret!"
                    Kate stood very still, looking at him so intently that a sense of shame must
                        have stirred in his breast.
                    "Look here, Kate," he said, roughly. "Mother did
                             say you had a secret, and she hinted at
                        Christmas  the reason you didn't go home was because your
                        folks were at outs with you, and you can ask her if I didn't tell
                        her to shut up and leave you alone, that I was in love with you, and
                        I'd marry you and we'd get along all right, even if you
                        were barred from home, and didn't get a penny. I just dare you to
                        ask her."
                    "It's no matter," said Kate, wearily.
                        "I'd rather take your word."
                    "All right, you take it, for that's the truth," he
                        said. "But what was the rumpus? How did you come to have a racket
                        with your old man?"
                    "Over my wanting to teach," said Kate. Then she explained
                        in detail.
                    "Pother! Don't you fret about that!" said George.
                        "I'm taking care of you now, and I'll see that
                        you soon get home and to Grays', too; that's all buncombe.
                        As for your share of your father's estate, you watch me get it! You
                        are his child, and there is law!"
                    "There's law that allows him to deed his land to his sons
                        before he dies, and that is exactly what he has done," said Kate.
                    "The Devil, you say!" shouted George Holt, stepping back to
                        stare at her. "You tell that at the Insane Asylum or the Feeble
                        Minded Home! I've seen the records! I know to the acre how much
                        land stands in your father's name. Don't try to work that
                        on me, my lady."
                    "I am not trying to work anything on you," said Kate,
                        dully, wondering to herself why she listened, why 
                        ---went on with it. "I'm merely telling
                        you. In Father's big chest at the head of his bed at home lies a
                        deed for two hundred acres of land for each of his seven sons, all signed
                        and ready to deliver. He keeps the land in his name on record to bring him
                        distinction and feed his vanity. He makes the boys pay the taxes, and
                        ko-tow, and help with his work; he keeps them under control; but the land is
                        theirs; none of the girls gets a penny's worth of it!"
                    George Holt cleared his face with an effort.
                    "Well, we are no worse off than the rest of them, then," he
                        said, trying to speak naturally and cheerfully. "But don't
                        you ever believe it! Little old Georgie will sleep with this in his night
                        cap awhile, and it's a problem he will solve if he works himself to
                        death on it."
                    "But that is Father's affair," said Kate.
                        "You had best turn your efforts, and lie awake nights thinking how
                        to make enough money to buy some land for us, yourself."
                    "Certainly! Certainly! I see myself doing it!" laughed
                        George Holt. "And now, knowing how you feel, and feeling none too
                        good myself, we are going to take a few days off and go upstream, fishing.
                        I'll take a pack of comforts to sleep on, and the tackle and some
                        food, and we will forget the whole bunch and go have a good time.
                        There's a place, not so far away, where I have camped beside a
                        spring since I was a little shaver, and it's quiet and cool. Go get
                        what you can't possibly exist without, nothing more."
                    "But we must dig the potatoes," protested Kate.
                    "Let them wait until we get back; it's a trifle early,  anyway," he said. "Stop
                        objecting and get ready! I'll tell Aunt Ollie. We're
                        chums. Whatever I do is always all right with her. Come on! This is our
                        wedding trip. Not much like the one you had planned, no doubt, but one of
                        some kind."
                    So they slipped beneath the tangle of vines and bushes, and, following the
                        stream of the ravine, they walked until mid-afternoon, when they reached a
                        spot that was very lovely, a clear, clean spring, grassy bank, a sheltered
                        cave-in floored with clean sand, warm and golden. From the depths of the
                        cave George brought an old frying pan and coffee pot. He spread a comfort on
                        the sand of the cave for a bed, produced coffee, steak, bread, butter, and
                        fruit from his load, and told Kate to make herself comfortable while he got
                        dinner. They each tried to make allowances for, and to be as decent as
                        possible with, the other, with the result that before they knew it, they
                        were having a good time; at least, they were keeping the irritating things
                        they thought to themselves, and saying only the pleasant ones.
                    After a week, which George enjoyed to the fullest extent, while Kate made the
                        best of everything, they put away the coffee pot and frying pan, folded the
                        comforts, and went back to Aunt Ollie's for dinner; then to Walden
                        in the afternoon. Because Mrs. Holt knew they would be there that day she
                        had the house clean and the best supper she could prepare ready for them.
                        She was in a quandary as to how to begin with Kate. She heartily hated her.
                        She had been sure the girl had a secret, now she knew it:  for if she did not attend the wedding of her
                        sister, if she had not been at home all summer, if her father and mother
                        never mentioned her name or made any answer to any one who did, there was a
                        reason, and a good reason. Of course a man as rich as Adam Bates could do no
                        wrong; whatever the trouble was, Kate was at fault, she had done some
                        terrible thing.
                    "Hidin' in the bushes!" spat Mrs. Holt.
                        "Hidin' in the bushes! Marry a man who didn't
                        know he was goin' to be married an hour before, unbeknownst to her
                        folks, an' wouldn't even come in the house, an'
                        have a few of the neighbours in. Nice doin's for the
                        school-ma'am! Nice prospect for George."
                    Mrs. Holt hissed like a copperhead, which was a harmless little creature
                        compared with her, as she scraped, and slashed, and dismembered the chicken
                        she was preparing to fry. She had not been able, even by running into each
                        store in the village, and the post office, to find one person who would say
                        a word against Kate. The girl had laid her foundations too well. The one
                        thing people could and did say was: "How could she marry George
                        Holt?" The worst of them could not very well say it to his mother.
                        They said it frequently to each other and then supplied the true answers.
                        "Look how he spruced up after she came!" "Look
                        how he worked!" "Look how he ran after and waited on
                        her!" "Look how nice he has been all summer!"
                        Plenty was being said in Walden, but not one word of it was for the itching
                        ears of Mrs. Holt. They had told her how splendid Kate  was, how they loved her, how glad they were that she was to
                        have the school again, how fortunate her son was, how proud she should be,
                        until she was almost bursting with repressed venom.
                    She met them at the gate, after their week's camping. They were
                        feeling in splendid health, the best spirits possible in the circumstances,
                        but appearing dirty and disreputable. They were both laughing as they
                        approached the gate.
                    "Purty lookin' bride you be!" Mrs. Holt spat at
                        Kate.
                    "Yes, aren't I?" laughed Kate. "But you
                        just give me a tub of hot soapsuds and an hour, and you won't know
                        me. How are you? Things look as if you were expecting us."
                    "Hump!" said Mrs. Holt.
                    Kate laughed and went into the house. George stepped in front of his mother.
                    "Now you look here," he said. I know every nasty thing your
                        mind has conjured up that you'd like to say, and
                        have other folks say, about Kate. And I know as well as if you were honest
                        enough to tell me, that you haven't been able to root out one
                        living soul who would say a single word against her. Swallow your secret!
                        Swallow your suspicions! Swallow your venom, and forget all of them. Kate is
                        as fine a woman as God ever made, and anybody who has common sense knows it.
                        She can just make me, if she wants to, and she will;
                        she's coming on fine, much faster and better than I hoped for. Now
                        you drop this! Stop it! Do you hear?"
                    
                    He passed her and hurried up the walk. In an hour, both George and Kate had
                        bathed and dressed in their very best. Kate put on her prettiest white dress
                        and George his graduation suit. Then together they walked to the post office
                        for their mail, which George had ordered held, before they left. Carrying
                        the bundle, they entered several stores on trifling errands, and then went
                        home. They stopped and spoke to everyone. Kate kissed all her little pupils
                        she met, and told them to come to see her, and to be ready to help clean the
                        schoolhouse in the morning. Word flew over town swiftly. The Teacher was
                        back, wearing the loveliest dress, and nicer than ever, and she had invited
                        folks to come to see her.
                    Kate and George had scarcely finished their supper, when the first pair of
                        shy little girls came for their kisses and to bring
                        "Teacher" a bunch of flowers and a pretty pocket
                        handkerchief from each. They came in flocks, each with flowers, most with a
                        towel or some small remembrance; then the elders began to come, merchants
                        with comforts, blankets, and towels, hardware men with frying pans, flat
                        irons, and tinware. By ten o'clock almost everyone in Walden had
                        carried Kate some small gift, wished her joy all the more earnestly, because
                        they felt the chances of her ever having it were so small, and had gone
                        their way, leaving her feeling better than she had thought possible.
                    She slipped into her room alone and read two letters, one a few typewritten
                        lines from John Jardine, saying he had been at Hartley, also at Walden, and
                        having found  her married and gone, there was
                        nothing for him to do but wish that the man she married had it in his heart
                        to guard her life and happiness as he would have done. He would never cease
                        to love her, and if at any time in her life there was anything he could do
                        for her, would she please let him know. Kate dropped the letter on her
                        dresser, with a purpose, and let it lie there. The other was from Robert. He
                        said he was very sorry, but he could do nothing with Nancy Ellen at present.
                        He hoped she would change later. If there was ever anything he could do, to
                        let him know. Kate locked that letter in her trunk. She wondered as she did
                        so why both of them seemed to think she would need them in the future. She
                        felt perfectly able to take care of herself.
                    Monday morning George carried Kate's books to school for her, saw
                        that she was started on her work in good shape, then went home, put on his
                        old clothes, and began the fall work at Aunt Ollie's. Kate, wearing
                        her prettiest blue dress, forgot even the dull ache in her heart, as she
                        threw herself into the business of educating those young people. She worked
                        as she never had before. She seemed to have developed fresh patience, new
                        perception, keener penetration; she made the dullest of them see her points,
                        and interested the most inattentive. She went home to dinner feeling better.
                        She decided to keep on teaching a few years until George was well started in
                        his practice; if he ever got started. He was very slow in action it seemed
                        to her, compared with his enthusiasm when he talked.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    STARTING MARRIED
                            LIFE
                    
                    
                        FOR two weeks Kate threw herself into the business of
                        teaching with all her power. She succeeded in so interesting herself and her
                        pupils that she was convinced she had done a wise thing. Marriage did not
                        interfere with her teaching; she felt capable and independent so long as she
                        had her salary. George was working and working diligently, to prepare for
                        winter, whenever she was present or could see results. With her first
                        month's salary she would buy herself a warm coat, a wool suit, an
                        extra skirt for school, and some waists. If there was enough left, she would
                        have another real hat. Then for the remainder of the year she would spend
                        only for the barest necessities and save to help toward a home something
                        like Nancy Ellen's. Whenever she thought of Nancy Ellen and Robert
                        there was a choking sensation in her throat, a dull ache where she had been
                        taught her heart was located.
                    For two weeks everything went as well as Kate hoped; then Mrs. Holt began to
                        show the results of having been partially bottled up, for the first time in
                        her life. She was careful to keep to generalities which she could claim
                        meant nothing, if anything she said was taken up by  either George or Kate. George was too lazy to quarrel unless
                        he was personally angered; Kate thought best to ignore anything that did not
                        come in the nature of a direct attack. So long as Mrs. Holt could not
                        understand how some folks could see their way to live off of other folks, or
                        why a girl who had a chance to marry a fortune would make herself a burden
                        to a poor man, Kate made the mistake of ignoring her. Thus emboldened she
                        soon became personal. It seemed as if she spent her spare time and mental
                        force thinking up suggestive, sarcastic things to say, where Kate could not
                        help hearing them. She paid no attention unless the attack was too mean and
                        premeditated; but to her surprise she found that every ugly, malicious word
                        the old woman said lodged in her brain and arose to confront her at the most
                        inopportune timesin the middle of a recitation or when she roused enough to
                        turn over in her bed at night. The more vigorously she threw herself into
                        her school work, the more she realized a queer lassitude creeping over her.
                        She kept squaring her shoulders, lifting her chin, and brushing imaginary
                        cobwebs from before her face.
                    The final Friday evening of the month, she stopped at the post office and
                        carried away with her the bill for her Leghorn hat, mailed with nicely
                        conceived estimate as to when her first check would be due. Kate visited the
                        Trustee, then smiled grimly as she slipped the amount in an envelope and
                        gave it to the hack driver to carry to Hartley on his trip the following
                        day. She had intended all fall to go with him and select a winter headpiece
                        that  would be no discredit to her summer
                        choice, but a sort of numbness was in her bones; so she decided to wait
                        until the coming week before going. She declined George's pressing
                        invitation to go along to Aunt Ollie's and help load and bring home
                        a part of his share of their summer's crops, on the ground that she
                        had some work to prepare for the coming week.
                    Then Kate went to her room feeling faint and heavy. She lay there most of the
                        day, becoming sorrier for herself, and heavier every passing hour. By
                        morning she was violently ill; when she tried to leave her bed, dizzy and
                        faint. All day she could not stand. Toward evening, she appealed to George
                        either to do something for her himself, or to send for the village doctor.
                        He asked her a few questions and then, laughing coarsely, told her that a
                        doctor would do her no good, and that it was very probable that she would
                        feel far worse before she felt better. Kate stared at him in dumb wonder.
                    "But my school!" she cried. "My school! I must be
                        able to go to school in the morning. Could that spring water have been
                        infected with typhus? I've never been sick like this
                        before."
                    "I should hope not!" said George. And then he told her
                        bluntly what caused her trouble. Kate had been white to begin with, now she
                        slowly turned greenish as she gazed at him with incredulous eyes. Then she
                        sprang to her feet.
                    "But I can't be ill!" she cried. "I
                        can't! There is my school! I've got to teach! Oh, what
                        shall I do?"
                    
                    George had a very clear conception of what she could do, but he did not
                        intend to suggest it to her. She could think of it, and propose it herself.
                        She could not think of anything at that minute, because she fainted, and
                        fell half on the bed, half in his arms as he sprang to her. He laid her
                        down, and stood a second smiling triumphantly at her unheeding face.
                    "Easy snap for you this winter, Georgie, my boy!" he
                        muttered. "I don't see people falling over each other to
                        get to you for professional services, and it's hard work anyway.
                        Zonoletics are away above the head of these country ignoramuses; blue mass
                        and quinine are about their limit."
                    He took his time to bathe Kate's face. Presently she sat up, then
                        fell on the pillow again.
                    "Better not try that!" warned George.
                        "You'll hurt yourself, and you can't make it.
                        You're out of the game; you might as well get used to it."
                    "I won't be out of the game!" cried Kate.
                        "I can't be! What will become of my school? Oh, George,
                        could you possibly teach for me, only for a few days, until I get my stomach
                        settled?"
                    "Why, I'd like to help you," he said,
                        "but you see how it is with me. I've got my fall work
                        finished up, and I'm getting ready to open my office next week.
                        I'm going to rent that nice front room over the post
                        office."
                    "But, George, you must," said Kate.
                        "You've taught several terms. You've a license.
                        You can take it until this passes. If you have waited from June to October
                        to  open your office, you can wait a few more
                        days. Suppose you open the office and patients
                        don't come, and we haven't the school; what would we live on? What would I buy things with, and pay doctor
                        bills?"
                    "Why didn't you think of that before you got married? What
                        was your rush, anyway? I can't figure it to save my soul,"
                        he said.
                    "George, the school can't go," she cried.
                        "If what you say is true, and I suspect it is, I must have money to
                        see me through."
                    "Then set your wits to work and fix things up with your
                        father," he said casually.
                    Kate arose tall and straight, standing unwaveringly as she looked at him in
                        blazing contempt.
                    "So?" she said. "This is the kind of man you are!
                        I'm not so helpless as you think me. I have a refuge. I know where
                        to find it. You'll teach my school until I'm able to take
                        it myself, if the Trustee and patrons will allow you, or I'll sever
                        my relations with you as quickly as I formed them. You have no practice; I
                        have grave doubts if you can get any; this is our only chance for the money
                        we must have this winter. Go ask the Trustee to come here until I can make
                        arrangements with him."
                    Then she wavered and rolled on the bed again. George stood looking at her
                        between narrowed eyelids.
                    "Tactics I use with Mother don't go with you, old
                        girl," he said to himself. "Thing of fire and tow,
                        stubborn as an ox; won't be pushed a hair's breadth; old
                        Bates over againalike as two peas. But I'll break you, damn you,
                             I'll break you; only, I want that school. Lots easier than kneading
                        somebody's old stiff muscles, while the money is sure. Oh, I go
                        after the Trustee, all right!"
                    He revived Kate, and telling her to keep quiet, and not excite herself, he
                        explained that it was a terrible sacrifice to him to put off opening his
                        office any longer; she must forgive him for losing self-control when he
                        thought of it; but for her dear sake he would teach until she was
                        betterpossibly she would be all right in a few days, and then she could take
                        her work again. Because she so devoutly hoped it, Kate made that arrangement
                        with the Trustee. Monday, she lay half starved, yet gagging and ill, while
                        George went to teach her school. As she contemplated that, she grew sicker
                        than she had been before. When she suddenly marshalled all the facts she
                        knew of him, she stoutly refused to think of what Nancy Ellen had said; when
                        she reviewed his character and disposition, and thought of him taking charge
                        of the minds of her pupils, Kate suddenly felt she must not allow that to
                        happen, she must not! Then came another thought, even more personal and
                        terrible, a thought so disconcerting she mercifully lost consciousness
                        again.
                    She sent for the village doctor, and found no consolation from her talk with
                        him. She was out of the school; that was settled. No harpy ever went to its
                        meat with one half the zest Mrs. Holt found in the situation. With Kate so
                        ill she could not stand on her feet half the time, so ill she could not
                        reply, with no spirit left to appeal to George, what more could be asked?
                        Mrs. Holt could add  to every grievance she
                        formerly had, that of a sick woman in the house for her to wait on. She
                        could even make vile insinuations to Kate, prostrate and helpless, that she
                        would not have dared otherwise. She could prepare food that with a touch of
                        salt or sugar where it was not supposed to be, would have sickened a well
                        person. One day George came in from school and saw a bowl of broth sitting
                        on a chair beside Kate's bed.
                    "Can't you drink it?" he asked. "Do, if
                        you possibly can," he urged. "You'll get so weak
                        you'll be helpless."
                    "I just can't," said Kate. "Things have
                        such a sickening, sweetish taste, or they are bitter, or sour; not a thing
                        is as it used to be. I simply can't!"
                    A curious look crept over George's face. He picked up the bowl and
                        tasted the contents. Instantly his face went black; he started toward the
                        kitchen. Kate heard part of what happened, but she never lifted her head.
                        After awhile he came back with more broth and a plate of delicate toast.
                    "Try this," he said. "I made it myself."
                    Kate ate ravenously.
                    "That's good!" she cried.
                    "I'll tell you what I'm going to do," he
                        said. "I'm going to take you out to Aunt Ollie's
                        for a week after school to-night. Want to go?"
                    "Yes! Oh, yes!" cried Kate.
                    "All right," he said. "I know where I can borrow a
                        rig for an hour. Get ready if you are well enough, if you are not,
                        I'll help you after school."
                    
                    That week with Aunt Ollie remained a bright spot in Kate's memory.
                        The October days were beginning to be crisp and cool. Food was different.
                        She could sleep, she could eat many things Aunt Ollie knew to prepare
                        especially; soon she could walk and be outdoors. She was so much better she
                        wrote George a note, asking him to walk out and bring her sewing basket, and
                        some goods she listed, and in the afternoons the two women cut and sewed
                        quaint, enticing little garments. George found Kate so much better when he
                        came that he proposed she remain another week. Then for the first time he
                        talked to her about her theory of government and teaching, until she
                        realized that the School Director had told him he was dissatisfied with
                        himso George was trying to learn her ways. Appalled at what might happen if
                        he lost the school, Kate made notes, talked at length, begged him to do his
                        best, and to come at once if anything went wrong. He did come, and brought
                        the school books so she went over the lessons with him, and made marginal
                        notes of things suggested to her mind by the text, for him to discuss and
                        elucidate. The next time he came, he was in such good spirits she knew his
                        work had been praised, so after that they went over the lessons together
                        each evening. Thinking of what would help him also helped fill her day.
                    He took her home, greatly improved, in much better spirits, to her room,
                        cleaned and ready for winter, with all of her things possible to use in
                        place, so that it was much changed, prettier, and more convenient. As they
                             drove in she said to him:
                        "George, what about it? Did your mother purposely fix my food so I
                        could not eat it?"
                    "Oh, I wouldn't say that," he said. "You
                        know neither of you is violently attached to the other. She'll be
                        more careful after this, I'm sure she will."
                    "Why, have you been sick?" asked Kate as soon as she saw
                        Mrs. Holt.
                    She seemed so nervous and appeared so badly Kate was sorry for her; but she
                        could not help noticing how she kept watch on her son. She seemed to keep
                        the width of the room and a piece of furniture between them, while her
                        cooking was so different that it was not in the least necessary for George
                        to fix things for Kate himself, as he had suggested. Everything was so
                        improved, Kate felt better. She began to sew, to read, to sit for long
                        periods in profound thought, then to take walks that brought back her
                        strength and colour. So through the winter and toward the approach of spring
                        they lived in greater comfort. With Kate's help, George was doing
                        so well with the school that he was frequently complimented by the parents.
                        That he was trying to do good work and win the approval of both pupils and
                        parents was evident to Kate. Once he said to her that he wondered if it
                        would be a good thing for him to put in an application for the school the
                        coming winter. Kate stared at him in surprise: "But your
                        profession," she objected. "You should be in your office
                        and having enough practice to support us by then."
                    "Yes, I should!" he said. "But this is a new
                        thing, and you know how these clodhoppers are."
                    
                    "If I came as near living in the country, and worked at farming as
                        much as you do, that's the last thing I would call any human
                        being," said Kate. "I certainly do know how they are, and
                        what I know convinces me that you need not look to them for any
                        patients."
                    "You seem to think I won't have any from any
                        source," he said hotly.
                    "I confess myself dubious," said Kate. "You
                        certainly are, or you wouldn't be talking of teaching."
                    "Well, I'll just show you!" he cried.
                    "I'm waiting," said Kate. "But as we must
                        live in the meantime, and it will be so long before I can earn anything
                        again, and so much expense, possibly it would be a good idea to have the
                        school to fall back on, if you shouldn't have the patients you hope
                        for this summer. I think you have done well with the school. Do your level
                        best until the term closes, and you may have a chance."
                    Laughing scornfully, he repeated his old boast: "I'll just
                        show you!"
                    "Go ahead," said Kate. "And while you are at it,
                        be generous. Show me plenty. But in the meantime, save every penny you can,
                        so you'll be ready to pay the doctor's bills and furnish
                        your office."
                    "I love your advice; it's so Batesy," he said.
                        "I have money saved for both contingencies you mention, but
                        I'll tell you what I think, and about this I'm the one who
                        knows. I've told you repeatedly winter is my best time.
                        I've lost the winter trying to help you out; and I've
                        little  chance until winter comes again. It
                        takes cold weather to make folks feel what ails their muscles, and my
                        treatment is mostly muscular. To save so we can get a real start,
                        wouldn't it be a good idea for you to put part of your things in my
                        room, take what you must have, and fix Mother's bedroom for you,
                        let her move her bed into her living room, and spare me all you can of your
                        things to fix up your room for my office this summer. That would save rent,
                        it's only a few steps from downtown, and when I wasn't
                        busy with patients, I could be handy to the garden, and to help
                        you."
                    "If your mother is willing, I'll do my share,"
                        said Kate, "although the room's cramped, and where
                        I'll put the small party when he comes I don't know, but
                        I'll manage someway. The big objection to it is that it will make
                        it look to people as if it were a makeshift, instead of starting a real
                        business."
                    "Real," was the wrong word. It was the red rag that started
                        George raging, until to save her self-respect, Kate left the room. Later in
                        the day he announced that his mother was willing, she would clean the living
                        room and move in that day. How Kate hated the tiny room with its one
                        exterior wall, only one small window, its scratched woodwork, and soiled
                        paper, she could not say. She felt physically ill when she thought of it,
                        and when she thought of the heat of the coming summer, she wondered what she
                        would do; but all she could do was to acquiesce. She made a trip downtown
                        and bought a quart of white paint and a few rolls of dainty, fresh paper.
                        She made her  self ill with turpentine odours
                        in giving the woodwork three coats, and fell from a table almost killing
                        herself while papering the ceiling. There was no room for her trunk; the
                        closet would not hold half her clothes; her only easy chair was crowded out;
                        she was sheared of personal comfort at a clip, just at a time when every
                        comfort should have been hers. George ordered an operating table, on which
                        to massage his patients, a few other necessaries, and in high spirits, went
                        about fixing up his office and finishing his school. He spent hours in the
                        woodshed with the remainder of Kate's white paint, making a sign to
                        hang in front of the house.
                    He was so pathetically anxious for a patient, after he had put his table in
                        place, hung up his sign, and paid for an announcement in the county paper
                        and the little Walden sheet, that Kate was sorry for him.
                    On a hot July morning Mrs. Holt was sweeping the front porch when a forlorn
                        specimen of humanity came shuffling up the front walk and asked to see Dr.
                        Holt. Mrs. Holt took him into the office and ran to the garden to tell
                        George his first patient had come. His face had been flushed from pulling
                        weeds, but it paled perceptibly as he started to the back porch to wash his
                        hands.
                    "Do you know who it is, Mother?" he asked.
                    "It's that old Peter Mines," she said,
                        "an' he looks fit to drop."
                    "Peter Mines!" said George. "He's had
                        about fifty things the matter with him for about fifty years."
                    "Then you're a made man if you can even make him  think he feels enough better so's
                        he'll go round talking about it," said Mrs. Holt,
                        shrewdly.
                    George stood with his hands dripping water an instant, thinking deeply.
                    "Well said for once, old lady," he agreed. "You
                        are just exactly right."
                    He hurried to his room, and put on his coat.
                    "A patient that will be a big boom for me," he boasted to
                        Kate as he went down the hall.
                    Mrs. Holt stood listening at the hall door. Kate walked around the dining
                        room, trying to occupy herself. Presently cringing groans began to come from
                        the room, mingled with George's deep voice explaining, and trying
                        to encourage the man. Then came a wild shriek and then silence. Kate hurried
                        out to the back walk and began pacing up and down in the sunshine. She did
                        not know it, but she was praying.
                    A minute later George's pallid face appeared at the back door:
                        "You come in here quick and help me," he demanded.
                    "What's the matter?" asked Kate.
                    "He's fainted. His heart, I think. He's got
                        everything that ever ailed a man!" he said.
                    "Oh, George, you shouldn't have touched him," said
                        Kate.
                    "Can't you see it will make me, if I can help him! Even
                        Mother could see that," he cried.
                    "But if his heart is bad, the risk of massaging him is
                        awful," said Kate as she hurried after George.
                    
                    Kate looked at the man on the table, ran her hand over the heart region, and
                        lifted terrified eyes to George.
                    "Do you think?" he stammered.
                    "Sure of it!" she said, "but we can try. Bring
                        your camphor bottle, and some water," she cried to Mrs. Holt.
                    For a few minutes, they worked frantically. Then Kate stepped back.
                        "I'm scared, and I don't care who knows
                        it," she said. "I'm going after Dr.
                        James."
                    "No, you are not!" cried George. "You just hold
                        yourself. I'll have him out in a minute. Begin at his feet and rub
                        the blood up to his heart."
                    "They are swollen to a puff, he's got no
                        circulation," said Kate. "Oh, George, how could you ever
                        hope to do anything for a man in this shape, with muscular
                        treatment?"
                    "You keep still and rub, for God's sake," he
                        cried, frantically. "Can't you see that I am ruined if he
                        dies on this table?"
                    "No, I can't," said Kate. "Everybody
                        would know that he was practically dying when he came here. Nobody will
                        blame you, only, you never should have touched him! George, I am going after Dr. James."
                    "Well, go then," he said wildly.
                    Kate started. Mrs. Holt blocked the doorway.
                    "You just stop, Missy!" she cried.
                        "You're away too smart, trying to get folks in here, and
                        ruin my George's chances. You just stay where you are till I think
                        what to do, to put the best face on this!"
                    
                    "He may not be really gone! The doctor might save him!"
                        cried Kate.
                    Mrs. Holt looked long at the man.
                    "He's deader 'an a doornail," she said.
                        "You stay where you are!"
                    Kate picked her up by the shoulders, set her to one side, ran from the room
                        and down the street as fast as possible. She found the doctor in his office
                        with two patients. She had no time to think or temporize.
                    "Get your case and come to our house quick, doctor," she
                        cried. "An old man they call Peter Mines came to see George, and
                        his heart has failed. Please hurry!"
                    "Heart, eh?" said the doctor. "Well, wait a
                        minute. No use to go about a bad heart without digitalis."
                    He got up and put on his hat, told the men he would be back soon, and went to
                        the nearest drug store. Kate followed. The men who had been in the office
                        came also.
                    "Doctor, hurry!" she panted. "I'm so
                        frightened."
                    "You go to some of the neighbours, and stay away from
                        there," he said.
                    "Hurry!" begged Kate. "Oh, do hurry!"
                    She was beside him as they sped down the street, and at his shoulder as they
                        entered the room. With one glance she lurched against the casing and then
                        she plunged down the hall, entered her room, closed the door behind her, and
                        threw herself on the bed. She had only a glance, but in that glance she had
                        seen Peter Mines sitting fully clothed, his hat on his head, his stick  in his hands, in her easy chair; the
                        operating table folded and standing against the wall; Mrs. Holt holding the
                        camphor bottle to Peter's nose, while George had one hand over
                        Peter's heart, the other steadying his head.
                    The doctor swung the table in place, and with George's help laid
                        Peter on it, then began tearing open his clothes. As they worked the two men
                        followed into the house to see if they could do anything and excited
                        neighbours began to gather. George and his mother explained how Peter had
                        exhausted himself walking two miles from the country that hot morning, how
                        he had entered the office, tottering with fatigue, and had fallen in the
                        chair in a fainting condition. Everything was plausible until a neighbour
                        woman, eager to be the centre of attraction for a second, cried:
                        "Yes, we all see him come more'n an hour ago; and when he
                        begin to let out the yells we says to each other, 'There! George has got his first patient, sure!'
                        An' we all kind of waited to see if he'd come out
                        better."
                    The doctor looked at her sharply: "More than an hour ago?"
                        he said. "You heard cries?"
                    "Yes, more'n a good hour ago. Yes, we all heard him yell,
                        jist once, good and loud!" she said.
                    The doctor turned to George. Before he could speak his mother intervened.
                    "That was our Kate done the yellin'," she said.
                        "She was scart crazy from the start. He jest come in, and set in
                        the chair, and he's been there ever since."
                    "You didn't give him any treatment, Holt?" asked
                        the doctor.
                    
                    Again Mrs. Holt answered: "Never touched him! Hadn't even
                        got time to get his table open. Wa'n't nothing he could
                        'a' done for him anyway. Peter was good as gone when he
                        got here. His fool folks never ought 'a' let him out this
                        hot day, sick as he was."
                    The doctor looked at George, at his mother, long at Peter. "He
                        surely was too sick to walk that far in this heat," he said.
                        "But to make sure, I'll look him over. George, you help
                        me. Clear the room of all but these two men."
                    He began minutely examining Peter's heart region. Then he rolled him
                        over and started to compress his lungs. Long white streaks marked the puffy
                        red of the swollen, dropsical flesh. The doctor examined the length of the
                        body, and looked straight into George Holt's eyes.
                    "No use," he said. "Bill, go to the
                        'phone in my office, and tell Coroner Smith to get here from
                        Hartley as soon as he can. All that's left to do here is to obey
                        the law, and have a funeral. Better some of the rest of you go tell his
                        folks. I've done all I can do. It's up to the Coroner now.
                        The rest of you go home, and keep still till he comes."
                    When he and George were left alone he said tersely: "Of course you
                        and your mother are lying. You had this man stripped, he did cry out, and he
                        did die from the pain of the treatment you tried to give him, in his
                        condition. By the way, where's your wife? This is a bad thing for
                        her right now. Come, let's find her and see what state she is
                        in."
                    
                    Together they left the room and entered Kate's door. As soon as the
                        doctor was busy with her, George slipped back into the closed room, rolled
                        Peter on his back and covered him, in the hope that the blood would settle
                        until it would efface the marks of his work before the Coroner arrived. By
                        that time the doctor was too busy to care much what happened to Peter Mines;
                        he was a poor old soul better off as he was. Across Kate's
                        unconscious body he said to George Holt: "I'm going to let
                        the Coroner make what he pleases out of this, solely for your
                        wife's sake. But two things: take down that shingle. Take it down
                        now, and never put it up again if you want me to keep still. I'll
                        give you what you paid for that table. It's a good one. Get him out
                        as soon as you can. Set him in another room. I've got to have Mrs.
                        Holt where I can work. And send Sarah Nepple here to help me. Move fast!
                        This is going to be a close call. And the other thing: I've heard
                        you put in an application for our school this winter. Withdraw it! Now
                        move!"
                    So they set Peter in the living room, cleaned Kate's room quickly,
                        and moved in her bed. By the time the Coroner arrived, the doctor was too
                        busy to care what happened. On oath he said a few words that he hoped would
                        make life easier for Kate, and at the same time pass muster for truth; told
                        the Coroner what witnesses to call; and gave an opinion as to
                        Peter's condition. He also added that he was sure Peter's
                        family would be very glad he was to suffer no more, and then he went back to
                             Kate who was suffering entirely too much
                        for safety. Then began a long vigil that ended at midnight with Kate barely
                        alive and Sarah Nepple, the Walden midwife, trying to divide a scanty
                        wardrobe between a pair of lusty twins.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    A NEW IDEA
                    
                    
                        KATE slowly came back to consciousness. She was conscious
                        of her body, sore from head to foot, with plenty of pain in definite spots.
                        Her first clear thought was that she was such a big woman; it seemed to her
                        that she filled the room, when she was one bruised ache from head to heels.
                        Then she became conscious of a moving bundle on the bed beside her, and laid
                        her hand on it to reassure herself. The size and shape of the bundle were
                        not reassuring.
                    "Oh, Lord!" groaned Kate. "Haven't You
                        any mercy at all? It was Your advice I followed when I took wing and started
                        out in life."
                    A big sob arose in her throat, while at the same time she began to laugh
                        weakly. Dr. James heard her from the hall and entered hastily. At sight of
                        him, Kate's eyes filled with terrified remembrance. Her glance
                        swept the room, and rested on her rocking chair.
                    "Take that out of here!" she cried. "Take it out,
                        split it into kindling wood, and burn it."
                    "All right," said Dr. James calmly. "I'll
                        guarantee that you never see it again. Is there anything else you
                        want?"
                    
                    "Youyou didn't?"
                    The doctor shook his head. "Very sorry," he said
                        "but there wasn't a thing could be done."
                    "Where is he?" she asked in a whisper.
                    "His people took him home immediately after the Coroner's
                        inquest, which found that he died from heart failure, brought on by his long
                        walk in the heat."
                    Kate stared at him with a face pitiful to behold.
                    "You let him think that?" she whispered
                        again.
                    "I did," said the old doctor. "I thought, and
                        still think, that for the sake of you and yours," he waved toward
                        the bundle, "it was the only course to pursue."
                    "Thank you," said Kate. "You're very
                        kind. But don't you think that I and mine are going to take a lot
                        of shielding? The next man may not be so kindly disposed. Besides, is it
                        right? Is it honest?"
                    "It is for you," said the doctor. "You had nothing
                        to do with it. If you had, things would not have gone as they did. As for
                        me, I feel perfectly comfortable about it in my conscience, which is my best
                        guide. All I had to do was to let them tell their story. I perjured myself
                        only to the extent of testifying that you knew nothing about it. The Coroner
                        could well believe that. George and his mother could easily manage the
                        remainder."
                    Kate waved toward the bundle. "Am I supposed to welcome and love
                        them?"
                    "A poet might expect you to," said the doctor. "In
                        the circumstances, I do not. I shall feel that you have done your whole duty
                        if you will try to nurse them when  the time
                        comes. You must have a long rest, and they must grow some before
                        you'll discover what they mean to you. There's always as
                        much chance that they'll resemble your people as that they will
                        not. The boy will have dark hair and eyes I think, but he looks exactly like
                        you. The girl is more Holt."
                    "Where is George?" she asked.
                    "He was completely upset," said the doctor. "I
                        suggested that he go somewhere to rest up a few days, so he took his tackle
                        and went fishing, and to the farm."
                    "Shouldn't he have stayed and faced it?" asked
                        Kate.
                    "There was nothing for him to face, except himself, Kate,"
                        said the doctor.
                    Kate shook her head. She looked ghastly ill.
                    "Doctor," she said, "couldn't you have
                        let me die?"
                    "And left your son and your little daughter to them?" he
                        asked. "No, Kate, I couldn't have let you die; because
                        you've your work in the world under your hand right now."
                    He said that because when he said "left your son and your little
                        daughter to them," Kate had reached over and laid her hand
                        possessively, defensively, on the little, squirming bundle, which was all
                        Dr. James asked of her. Presently she looked the doctor straight in the
                        face. "Exactly what do you know?" she asked.
                    "Everything," said the doctor. "And you?"
                    "Everything," said Kate.
                    There was a long silence. Then Kate spoke slowly; "That George
                        didn't know that he shouldn't have  touched that man, proves him completely incompetent,"
                        she said. "That he did, and didn't have the courage to
                        face the results, proves him lacking in principle. He's not fit for
                        either work to which he aspires."
                    "You are talking too much," said the doctor.
                        "Nurse Nepple is in charge here, and Aunt Ollie. George's
                        mother went to the farm to cook for him. You're in the hands of two
                        fine women, who will make you comfortable. You have escaped lasting disgrace
                        with your skirts clear, now rest and be thankful."
                    "I can't rest until I know one thing," said Kate.
                        "You're not going to allow George to kill any one
                        else?"
                    "No," said the doctor. "I regretted telling him
                        very much; but I had to tell him that could not
                        happen."
                    "And about the school?" she asked. "I half thought
                        he might get it."
                    "He won't!" said the doctor.
                        "I'm in a position to know that. Now try to take some
                        rest."
                    Kate waved toward the babies: "Will you please take them away until
                        they need me?" she asked.
                    "Of course," said the doctor. "But don't
                        you want to see them, Kate? There isn't a mark or blemish on either
                        of them. The boy weighs seven pounds and the girl six; they seem as perfect
                        as children can be."
                    "You needn't worry about that," said Kate.
                        "Twins are a Bates habit. My mother had three pairs, always a boy
                        and girl, always big and sound as any children; mine will be all right,
                        too."
                    The doctor started to turn back the blanket. Kate  turned her head away: "Don't you think I
                        have had about enough at present?" she asked.
                        "I'd stake my life that as a little further piece of my
                        punishment, the girl looks exactly like Mrs. Holt."
                    "By Jove," said the doctor, "I couldn't
                        just think who it was."
                    He carried the babies from the room, lowered the blinds, and Kate tried to
                        sleep, and did sleep, because she was so exhausted she could not keep awake.
                    Later in the evening Aunt Ollie slipped in, and said George was in the
                        woodhouse, almost crying himself to death, and begging to see her.
                    "You tell him I'm too sick to be seen for at least a
                        week," said Kate.
                    "But, my dear, he's so broken up; he feels so
                        badly," begged Aunt Ollie.
                    "So do I," said Kate. "I feel entirely too badly
                        to be worried over seeing him. I must take the babies now."
                    "I do wish you would!" persisted Aunt Ollie.
                    "Well, I won't," said Kate. "I
                        don't care if I never see him again. He knows why
                        he is crying; ask him."
                    "I'll wager they ain't a word of truth in that
                        tale they're telling," she said.
                    Kate looked straight at her: "Well, for their sakes, and my sake,
                        and the babies' sakes, don't talk about
                        it."
                    "You poor thing!" said Aunt Ollie, "I'll
                        do anything in the world to help you. If ever you need me, just call on me.
                        I'll go start him back in a hurry."
                    He came every night, but Kate steadily refused, until  she felt able to sit up in a chair, to see him, or his mother
                        when she came to see the babies. She had recovered rapidly, was over the
                        painful part of nursing the babies, and had a long talk with Aunt Ollie,
                        before she consented to see George. At times she thought she never could see
                        him again; at others, she realized her helplessness. She had her babies to
                        nurse for a year; there was nothing she could think of she knew to do, that
                        she could do, and take proper care of two children. She was tied
                        "hand and foot," as Aunt Ollie said. And yet it was Aunt
                        Ollie who solved her problem for her. Sitting beside the bed one day she
                        said to Kate: "My dear, do you know that I'm having a
                        mighty good time? I guess I was lonesomer than I thought out there all alone
                        so much, and the work was nigh to breaking me during the long, cold winter.
                        I got a big notion to propose somepin' to you that might be a
                        comfort to all of us."
                    "Propose ahead," said Kate. "I'm at my
                        wits' end."
                    "Well, what would you think of you and George taking the land,
                        working it on the shares, and letting me have this room, an' live
                        in Walden, awhile?"
                    Kate sat straight up in bed: "Oh, Aunt Ollie! Would you?"
                        she cried. "Would you? That would be a mercy to me; it would give
                        George every chance to go straight, if there is a straight impulse in
                        him."
                    "Yes, I will," said Aunt Ollie, "and you
                        needn't feel that I am getting the little end of the bargain,
                        either. The only unpleasant thing about it will be my sister, and
                        I'll undertake to manage her. I read a lot, an' I can
                        always  come to see you when mortal sperrits
                        will bear her no more. She'll be no such trial to me, as she is to
                        you."
                    "You're an angel," said Kate.
                        "You've given me hope where I had not a glimmer. If I have
                        George out there alone, away from his mother, I can bring out all the good
                        there is in him, and we can get some results out of life, or I can assure
                        myself that it is impossible, so that I can quit with a clear conscience. I
                        do thank you."
                    "All right, then, I'll go out and begin packing my things,
                        and see about moving this afternoon. I'll leave my stoves, and
                        beds, and tables, and chairs for you; you can use your wedding things, and
                        be downright comfortable. I'll like living in town a spell real
                        well."
                    So once more Kate saw hope a beckoning star in the distance, and ruffled the
                        wings of the spirit preparatory to another flight: only a short, humble
                        flight this time, close earth; but still as full of promise as life seemed
                        to hold in any direction for her. She greeted George casually, and as if
                        nothing had happened, when she was ready to see him.
                    "You're at the place where words are not of the slightest
                        use to me," she said. "I'm giving you one, and a
                        final chance to act. This seems all that is open to us. Go
                        to work like a man, and we will see what we can make of our last
                        chance."
                    Kate was so glad when she sat in the carriage that was to take her from the
                        house and the woman she abominated that she could scarcely behave properly.
                        She clasped Adam tightly in her arms, and felt  truly his mother. She reached over and tucked the blanket closer over
                        Polly, but she did not carry her, because she resembled her grandmother,
                        while Adam was a Bates.
                    George drove carefully. He was on behaviour too good to last, but fortunately
                        both women with him knew him well enough not to expect that it would. When
                        they came in sight of the house, Kate could see that the grass beside the
                        road had been cut, the trees trimmed, and Oh, joy, the house freshly painted
                        a soft, creamy white she liked, with a green roof. Aunt Ollie explained that
                        she furnished the paint and George did the work. He had swung oblong clothes
                        baskets from the ceiling of a big, cheery, old-fashioned bedroom for a
                        cradle for each baby, and established himself in a small back room adjoining
                        the kitchen. Kate said nothing about the arrangement, because she supposed
                        it had been made to give her more room, and that George might sleep in
                        peace, while she wrestled with two tiny babies.
                    There was no doubt about the wrestling. The babies seemed of nervous
                        temperament, sleeping in short naps and lightly. Kate was on her feet from
                        the time she reached her new home, working when she should not have worked;
                        so that the result developed cross babies, each attacked with the colic,
                        which raged every night from six o'clock until twelve and after,
                        both frequently shrieking a the same time. George did his share by going to
                        town for a bottle of soothing syrup, which Kate promptly threw in the creek.
                        Once he took Adam and began walking the  floor
                        with him, extending his activities as far as the kitchen. In a few minutes
                        he had the little fellow sound asleep and he did not waken until morning;
                        then he seemed to droop and feel listless. When he took the baby the second
                        time and made the same trip to the kitchen, Kate laid Polly on her bed and
                        silently followed. She saw George lay the baby on the table, draw a flask
                        from his pocket, pour a spoon partly full, filling it the remainder of the
                        way from the teakettle. As he was putting the spoon to the baby's
                        lips, Kate stepped beside him and taking it, she tasted the contents. Then
                        she threw the spoon into the dishpan standing near and picked up the baby.
                    "I knew it!" she said. "Only I didn't
                        know what. He acted like a drugged baby all last night and to-day. Since
                        when did you begin carrying that stuff around with you, and feeding it to
                        tiny babies?"
                    "It's a good thing. Dr. James recommended it. He said it
                        was harmful to let them strain themselves crying, and very hard on you. You
                        could save yourself a lot," he urged.
                    "I need saving all right," said Kate, "but I
                        haven't a picture of myself saving myself by drugging a pair of
                        tiny babies."
                    He slipped the bottle back into his pocket. Kate stood looking at him so long
                        and so intently, he flushed and set the flask on a shelf in the pantry.
                        "It may come in handy some day when some of us have a
                        cold," he said.
                    Kate did her best, but she was so weakened by nursing both of the babies, by
                        loss of sleep, and overwork in the  house,
                        that she was no help whatever to George in getting in the fall crops and
                        preparing for spring. She had lost none of her ambition, but there was a
                        limit to her capacity.
                    In the spring the babies were big and lusty, eating her up, and crying with
                        hunger, until she was forced to resort to artificial feeding in part, which
                        did not agree with either of them. As a saving of time and trouble she
                        decided to nurse one and feed the other. It was without thought on her part,
                        almost by chance, yet the chance was that she nursed Adam and fed Polly.
                        Then the babies began teething, so that she was rushed to find time to
                        prepare three regular meals a day, and as for the garden and poultry she had
                        planned, George did what he pleased about them, which was little, if
                        anything.
                    He would raise so much to keep from being hungry, he would grow so many
                        roots, and so much cabbage for winter, he would tend enough corn for a team
                        and to fatten pork; right there he stopped and went fishing, while the flask
                        was in evidence on the pantry shelf only two days. Kate talked crop
                        rotation, new seed, fertilization, until she was weary; George heartily
                        agreed with her, but put nothing of it all into practice.
                    "As soon as the babies are old enough to be taken out," she
                        said, "things will be better. I just can't do justice to
                        them and my work, too. Three pairs! My poor mother! And she's alive
                        yet! I marvel at it."
                    So they lived, and had enough to eat, and were clothed, but not one step did
                        they advance toward Kate's  ideals of
                        progression, economy, accumulation. George always had a little money, more
                        than she could see how he got from the farming. There were a few calves and
                        pigs to sell occasionally; she thought possibly he saved his share from
                        them.
                    For four years, Kate struggled valiantly to keep pace with what her mother
                        always had done, and had required of her at home; but she learned long
                        before she quit struggling that farming with George was hopeless. So at last
                        she became so discouraged she began to drift into his way of doing merely
                        what would sustain them, and then reading, fishing, or sleeping the
                        remainder of the time. She began teaching the children while very small, and
                        daily they had their lessons after dinner, while their father slept.
                    Kate thought often of what was happening to her; she hated it, she fought it;
                        but with George Holt for a partner she could not escape it. She lay awake
                        nights, planning ways to make a start toward prosperity; she propounded her
                        ideas at breakfast. To save time in getting him early to work she began
                        feeding the horses as soon as she was up, so that George could go to work
                        immediately after breakfast; but she soon found she might as well save her
                        strength. He would not start to harness until he had smoked, mostly three
                        quarters of an hour. That his neighbours laughed at him and got ahead of him
                        bothered him not at all. All they said and all Kate said, went, as he
                        expressed it, "in at one ear, out at the other."
                    
                    One day in going around the house Kate was suddenly confronted by a thing she
                        might have seen for three years, but had not noticed. Leading from the path
                        of bare, hard-beaten earth that ran around the house through the grass, was
                        a small forking path not so wide and well defined, yet a path, leading to
                        George's window. She stood staring at it a long time with a
                        thoughtful expression on her face.
                    That night she did not go to bed when she went to her room. Instead she
                        slipped out into the night and sitting under a sheltering bush she watched
                        that window. It was only a short time until George crawled from it, went
                        stealthily to the barn, and a few minutes later she saw him riding
                        barebacked on one of the horses he had bridled, down the footpath beside the
                        stream toward town. She got up and crossing the barnyard shut the gate after
                        him, and closed the barn door. She went back to the house and closed his
                        window and lighting a lamp set it on his dresser in front of his small
                        clock. His door was open in the morning when she passed it on her way to the
                        kitchen, so she got breakfast instead of feeding the horses. He came in
                        slowly, furtively watching her. She worked as usual, saying no unpleasant
                        word. At length he could endure it no longer.
                    "Kate," he said, "I broke a bolt in the plow
                        yesterday, and I never thought of it until just as I was getting into bed,
                        so to save time I rode in to Walden and got another last night.
                        Ain't I a great old economist, though?"
                    
                    "You are a great something," she said.
                        "'Economist' would scarcely be my name for it.
                        Really, George, can't you do better than that?"
                    "Better than what?" he demanded.
                    "Better than telling such palpable lies," she said.
                        "Better than crawling out windows instead of using your doors like
                        a man; better than being the most shiftless farmer of your neighbourhood in
                        the daytime, because you have spent most of your nights, God and probably
                        all Walden know how. The flask and ready money I never could understand give
                        me an inkling."
                    "Anything else?" he asked, sneeringly.
                    "Nothing at present," said Kate placidly. "I
                        probably could find plenty, if I spent even one night in Walden when you
                        thought I was asleep."
                    "Go if you like," he said. "If you think
                        I'm going to stay here, working like a dog all day, year in and
                        year out, to support a daughter of the richest man in the county and her
                        kids, you fool yourself. If you want more than you got, call on your rich
                        folks for it. If you want to go to town, either night or day, go for all I
                        care. Do what you damn please; that's what I am going to do in the
                        future and I'm glad you know it. I'm tired climbing
                        through windows and slinking like a dog. I'll come and go like
                        other men after this."
                    "I don't know what other men you are referring
                        to," said Kate. "You have a monopoly of your kind in this
                        neighbourhood; there is none other like you. You crawl and slink as
                        'to the manner born.'"
                    
                    "Don't you go too far," he menaced with an ugly
                        leer.
                    "Keep that for your mother," laughed Kate. "You
                        need never try a threat with me. I am stronger than you are, and you may
                        depend upon it I shall see that my strength never fails me again. I know now
                        that you are all Nancy Ellen said you were."
                    "Well, if you married me knowing it, what are you going to do about
                        it?" he sneered.
                    "I didn't know it then. I thought I knew you. I thought she
                        had been misinformed," said Kate, in self-defence.
                    "Well," he said, insultingly, "if you
                        hadn't been in such a big hurry, you could soon have found out all
                        you wanted to know. I took advantage of it, but I never did understand your
                        rush."
                    "You never will," said Kate.
                    Then she arose and went to see if the children had wakened. All day she was
                        thinking so deeply she would stumble over the chairs in her preoccupation.
                        George noticed it, and it frightened him. After supper he came and sat on
                        the porch beside her.
                    "Kate," he said, "as usual you are
                        'making mountains out of mole hills.' It doesn't
                        damn a fellow forever to ride or walk, I almost always walk, into town in
                        the evening, to see the papers and have a little visit with the boys. Work
                        all day in a field is mighty lonesome; a man has got to have a little
                        change. I don't deny a glass of beer once in awhile, or a game of
                        cards with the boys occasionally; but if you have lived with me over five
                             years here, and never suspected it
                        before, it can't be so desperately bad, can it? Come now, be
                        fair!"
                    "It's no difference whether I am fair or unfair,"
                        Kate said, wearily. "It explains why you simply will not brace up,
                        and be a real man, and do a man's work in the world, and achieve a
                        man's success."
                    "Who can get anywhere, splitting everything in halves?" he
                        demanded.
                    "The most successful men in this neighbourhood got their start
                        exactly that way," she said.
                    "Ah, well, farming ain't my job, anyway," he said.
                        "I always did hate it. I always will. If I could have a little
                        capital to start with, I know a trick that would suit you, and make us
                        independent in no time."
                    Kate said no word, and seeing she was not going to, he continued:
                        "I've thought about this till I've got it all
                        down fine, and it's a great scheme; you'll admit that,
                        even angry as you are. It is this: get enough together to build a saw mill
                        on my strip of ravine. A little damming would make a free water power worth
                        a fortune. I could hire a good man to run the saw and do the work, and I
                        could take a horse and ride, or drive around among the farmers I know, and
                        buy up timber cheaper than most men could get it. I could just skin the eyes
                        out of them."
                    "Did it ever occur to you that you could do better by being
                        honest?" asked Kate, wearily.
                    "Aw, well, Smarty! you know I didn't mean that
                        literally!" he scoffed. "You know I only meant I could  talk, and jolly, and buy at bed-rock prices;
                        I know where to get the timber, and the two best mill men in the country; we
                        are near the railroad; it's the dandiest scheme that ever struck
                        Walden. What do you think about it?"
                    "I think if Adam had it he'd be rich from it in ten
                        years," she said, quietly.
                    "Then you do think it's a bully
                        idea," he cried. "You would try it if we
                        had a chance?"
                    "I might," said Kate.
                    "You know," he cried, jumping up in excitement,
                        "I've never mentioned this to a soul, but I've
                        got it all thought out. Would you go to see your brother Adam, and see if
                        you could get him to take an interest for young Adam? He could manage the
                        money himself."
                    "I wouldn't go to a relative of mine for a cent, even if
                        the children were starving," said Kate. "Get, and keep,
                            that clear in your head."
                    "But you think there is something in it?" he persisted.
                    "I know there is," said Kate with finality. "In
                        the hands of the right man, and with the capital to start."
                    "Kate, you can be the meanest," he said.
                    "I didn't intend to be, in this particular
                        instance," she said. "But honestly, George, what have I
                        ever seen of you in the way of financial success in the past that would give
                        me hope for the future?"
                    "I know it," he said, "but I've never
                        struck exactly the right thing. This is what I could make a success of, and
                        I would make a good big one, you bet! Kate, I'll not go to town
                        another night. I'll stop all that." He  drew the flask from his pocket and smashed it
                        against the closest tree. "And I'll stop all there ever
                        was of that, even to a glass of beer on a hot day; if you say so, if
                        you'll stand by me this once more, if I fail this time,
                        I'll never ask you again, honest I won't."
                    "If I had money, I'd try it, keeping the building in my own
                        name and keeping the books myself; but I've none, and no way to get
                        any, as you know," she said. "I can see what could be
                        done, but I'm helpless."
                    "I'm not!" said George.
                        "I've got it all worked out. You see I was doing something
                        useful with my head, if I wasn't always plowing as fast as you
                        thought I should. If you'll back me, if you'll keep books,
                        if you'll handle the money until she is paid back, I know Aunt
                        Ollie will sell enough of this land to build the mill and buy the machinery.
                        She could keep the house, and orchard, and barn, and a big enough piece, say
                        forty acres, to live on and keep all of us in grub. She and Mother could
                        move out hereshe said the other day she was tired of town and getting
                        homesickand we could go to town to put the children in school, and be on the
                        job. I won't ever ask you and Mother to live together again. Kate,
                        will you go in with me? Will you talk to Aunt Ollie? Will you let me show
                        you, and explain, and prove to you?"
                    "I won't be a party to anything that would even remotely
                        threaten to lose Aunt Ollie's money for her," she said.
                    "She's got nobody on earth but me. It's all mine
                        in  the end. Why not let me have this
                        wonderful chance with it? Kate, will you?" he begged.
                    "I'll think about it," she conceded. "If
                        I can study out a sure, honourable way. I'll promise to think. Now
                        go out there, and hunt the last scrap of that glass; the children may cut
                        their feet in the morning."
                    Then Kate went in to bed. If she had looked from her window, she might have
                        seen George scratching matches and picking pieces of glass from the grass.
                        When he came to the bottom of the bottle with upstanding, jagged edges,
                        containing a few drops, he glanced at her room, saw that she was undressing
                        in the dark, and lifting it, he poured the liquid on his tongue to the last
                        drop that would fall.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    THE WORK OF THE SUN
                    
                    
                        BEFORE Kate awakened the following morning George was out
                        feeding the horses, cattle, and chickens, doing the milking, and working
                        like the proverbial beaver. By the time breakfast was ready, he had
                        convinced himself that he was a very exemplary man, while he expected Kate
                        to be convinced also. He stood ready and willing to forgive her for every
                        mean deceit and secret sin he ever had committed, or had it in his heart to
                        commit in the future. All the world was rosy with him, he was flying with
                        the wings of hope straight toward a wonderful achievement that would bring
                        pleasure and riches, first to George Holt, then to his wife and children,
                        then to the old aunt he really cared more for than any one else.
                    Incidentally, his mother might have some share, while he would bring such
                        prosperity and activity to the village that all Walden would forget every
                        bad thing it had ever thought or known of him, and delight to pay him
                        honour. Kate might have guessed all this when she saw the pails full of milk
                        on the table, and heard George whistling "Hail the Conquering Hero
                        Comes," as he turned the cows into the pasture; but she had not
                        slept  well. Most of the night she had lain
                        staring at the ceiling, her brain busy with calculations, computations, most
                        of all with personal values.
                    She dared not be a party to anything that would lose Aunt Ollie her land;
                        that was settled; but if she went into the venture herself, if she kept the
                        deeds in Aunt Ollie's name, the bank account in hers, drew all the
                        checks, kept the books, would it be safe? Could George buy timber as he
                        thought; could she, herself, if he failed? The children were old enough to
                        be in school now, she could have much of the day, she could soon train Polly
                        and Adam to do even more than sweep and run errands; the scheme could be
                        materialized in the Bates way, without a doubt; but could it be done in a
                        Bates way, hampered and impeded by George Holt? Was the plan feasible, after
                        all? She entered into the rosy cloud enveloping the kitchen without ever
                        catching the faintest gleam of its hue. George came to her the instant he
                        saw her and tried to put his arm around her. Kate drew back and looked at
                        him intently.
                    "Aw, come on now, Kate," he said. "Leave out the
                        heroics and be human. I'll do exactly as you say about everything
                        if you will help me wheedle Aunt Ollie into letting me have the
                        money."
                    Kate stepped back and put out her hands defensively: "A rare
                        bargain," she said, "and one eminently worthy of you.
                        You'll do what I say, if I'll do what you say, without the
                        slightest reference as to whether it impoverishes a woman who has always
                        helped and befriended you. You make me sick!"
                    
                    "What's biting you now?" he demanded, sullenly.
                    Kate stood tall and straight before and above him.
                    "If you have a good plan, if you can prove that it will work, what
                        is the necessity for 'wheedling' anybody? Why not state
                        what you propose in plain, unequivocal terms, and let the dear, old soul,
                        who has done so much for us already, decide what she will do?"
                    "That's what I meant! That's all I
                        meant!" he cried.
                    "In that case, 'wheedle' is a queer word to
                        use."
                    "I believe you'd throw up the whole thing; I believe
                        you'd let the chance to be a rich woman slip through your fingers,
                        if it all depended on your saying only one word you thought wasn't
                        quite straight," he cried, half in assertion, half in question.
                    "I honour you in that belief," said Kate. "I most
                        certainly would."
                    "Then you turn the whole thing down? You won't have
                        anything to do with it?" he cried, plunging into stoop-shouldered,
                        mouth-sagging despair.
                    "Oh, I didn't say that!" said
                        Kate. "Give me time! Let me think! I've got to know that
                        there isn't a snare in it, from the title of the land to the grade
                        of the creek bed. Have you investigated that? Is your ravine long enough and
                        wide enough to dam it high enough at our outlet to get your power, and yet
                        not back water on the road, and the farmers above you? Won't it
                        freeze in winter? and can you get strong enough power from water to run a
                        large saw? I doubt it!"
                    "Oh, gee! I never thought about that!" he cried.
                    
                    "And if it would work, did you figure the cost of a dam into your
                        estimate of the building and machinery?"
                    He snapped his fingers in impatience.
                    "By heck!" he cried, "I forgot that, too! But that wouldn't cost much. Look what we did in
                        that ravine just for fun. Why, we could build that dam ourselves!"
                    "Yes, strong enough for conditions in September, but what about the
                        January freshet?" she said.
                    "Croak! Croak! You blame old raven," cried George.
                    "And have you thought," continued Kate, "that
                        there is no room on the bank toward town to set your mill, and it
                        wouldn't be allowed there, if there were?"
                    "You bet I have!" he said defiantly. "I'm
                        no such slouch as you think me. I've even stepped off the
                        location!"
                    "Then," said Kate, "will you build a bridge across
                        the ravine to reach it, or will you buy a strip from Linn and build a
                        road?"
                    George collapsed with a groan.
                    "That's the trouble with you," said Kate.
                        "You always build your castle with not even sand for a foundation.
                        The most nebulous of rosy clouds serve you as perfectly as granite blocks.
                        Before you go glimmering again, double your estimate to cover a dam and a
                        bridge, and a lot of incidentals that no one ever seems able to include in a
                        building contract. And whatever you do, keep a still head until we get these
                        things figured, and have some sane idea of what the venture would
                        cost."
                    
                    "How long will it take?" he said sullenly.
                    "I haven't an idea. I'd have to go to Hartley and
                        examine the records and be sure that there was no flaw in the deeds to the
                        land; but the first thing is to get a surveyor and know for sure if you have
                        a water-power that will work and not infringe on your neighbours. A thing
                        like this can't be done in a few minutes' persuasive
                        conversation. It will take weeks."
                    It really seemed as if it would take months. Kate went to Walden that
                        afternoon, set the children playing in the ravine while she sketched it,
                        made the best estimate she could of its fall, and approved the curve on the
                        opposite bank which George thought could be cleared for a building site and
                        lumber yard. Then she added a location for a dam and a bridge site, and went
                        home to figure and think. The further she went in these processes the more
                        hopeless the project seemed. She soon learned that there must be an engine
                        with a boiler to run the saw. The dam could be used only to make a pond to
                        furnish the water needed; but at that it would be cheaper than to dig a
                        cistern or well. She would not even suggest to Aunt Ollie to sell any of the
                        home forty. The sale of the remainder at the most hopeful price she dared
                        estimate would not bring half the money needed, and it would come in
                        long-time payments. Lumber, bricks, machinery, could not be had on time of
                        any length, while wages were cash every Saturday night.
                    "It simply can't be done," said Kate, and stopped
                        thinking about it, so far as George knew.
                    
                    He was at once plunged into morose moping; he became sullen and indifferent
                        about the work, ugly with Kate and the children, until she was driven almost
                        frantic, and projects nearly as vague as some of George's began to
                        float through her head.
                    One Saturday morning Kate had risen early and finished cleaning up her house,
                        baking, and scrubbing porches. She had taken a bath to freshen and cool
                        herself and was standing before her dresser, tucking the last pins in her
                        hair, when she heard a heavy step on the porch and a loud knock on the
                        screen door. She stood at an angle where she could peep, she looked as she
                        reached for her dress. What she saw carried her to the door forgetful of the
                        dress. Adam, Jr., stood there, white and shaken, steadying himself against
                        the casing.
                    "Adam!" cried Kate. "Is Mother?"
                    He shook his head.
                    "Father?" she panted.
                    He nodded, seeming unable to speak. Kate's eyes darkened and
                        widened. She gave Adam another glance and opened the door: "Come
                        in," she said. "When did it happen? How did he get
                        hurt?"
                    In that moment she recalled that she had left her father in perfect health,
                        she had been gone more than seven years. In that time he could not fail to
                        illness; how he had been hurt was her first thought. As she asked the
                        question, she stepped into her room and snatched up her second best summer
                        dress, waiting for Adam to speak as she slipped into it. But speaking seemed
                        to be a very  difficult thing for Adam. He was
                        slow in starting and words dragged and came singly:
                        "Yesterdaytiredbig dinnerawful hotsunstroke"
                    "He's gone?" she cried.
                    Adam nodded in that queer way again.
                    "Why did you come? Does Mother want me?" the questions
                        leaped from Kate's lips; her eyes implored him. Adam was too
                        stricken to heed his sister's unspoken plea.
                    "Course," he said. "All thereyour placeI want you.
                        Only one in the familynot stark mad!"
                    Kate straightened tensely and looked at him again. "All
                        right," she said. "I can throw a few things in my
                        telescope, write the children a note to take to their father in the field,
                        and we can stop in Walden and send Aunt Ollie out to cook for them; I can go
                        as well as not, for as long as Mother wants me."
                    "Hurry!" said Adam.
                    In her room Kate stood still a second, her eyes narrow, her underlip sucked
                        in, her heart almost stopped. Then she said aloud:
                        "Father's sons have wished he would die too long for his
                        death to strike even the most tolerant of them like that. Something dreadful
                        has happened. I wonder to my soul!"
                    She waited until they were past Hartley and then she asked suddenly:
                        "Adam, what is the matter?"
                    Then Adam spoke: "I am one of a pack of seven poor fools, and every
                        other girl in the family has gone raving mad, so I thought I'd come
                        after you, and see if you had sense, or reason, or justice, left in
                        you."
                    
                    "What do you want of me?" she asked dazedly.
                    "I want you to be fair, to be honest, to do as you'd be
                        done by. You came to me when you were in trouble," he reminded her.
                    Kate could not prevent the short laugh that sprang to her lips, nor what she
                        said: "And you would not lift a finger; young Adam made his mother help me. Why don't you
                        go to George for what you want?"
                    Adam lost all self-control, and swore sulphurously.
                    "I thought you'd be different," he said,
                        "but I see you are going to be just like the rest of the!"
                    "Stop that!" said Kate. "You're talking
                        about my sistersand yours. Stop this wild talk, and tell me exactly what is
                        the matter."
                    "I'm telling nothing," said Adam. "You
                        can find out what is the matter and go it with the rest of them, when you
                        get there. Mother said this morning she wished you were there, because
                        you'd be the only sane one in the family, so I
                        thought I'd bring you; but I wish now I hadn't done it,
                        for it stands to reason that you will join the pack, and run as fast as the
                        rest of the wolves."
                    "From a prairie fire, or to a
                        carcass?" asked Kate.
                    "I told you, you could find out when you got there. I'm not
                        going to have them saying I influenced you, or bribed you," he
                        said.
                    "Do you really think that they think you could, Adam?"
                        asked Kate, wonderingly.
                    "I have said all I'm going to say," said Adam, and
                             then he began driving his horse
                        inhumanely fast, for the heat was deep, slow, and burning.
                    "Adam, is there any such hurry?" asked Kate. "You
                        know you are abusing your horse dreadfully."
                    Adam immediately jerked the horse with all his might, and slashed the length
                        of its body with two long stripes that rapidly raised in high welts, so Kate
                        saw that he was past reasoning with and said no other word. She tried to
                        think who would be at home, how they would treat her, the Prodigal, who had
                        not been there in seven years; and suddenly it occurred to Kate that, if she
                        had known all she now knew in her youth, and had the same decision to make
                        again as when she knew nothing, she would have taken wing, just as she had.
                        She had made failures, she had hurt herself, mind and body, but her honour,
                        her self-respect were intact. Suddenly she sat straight. She was glad that
                        she had taken a bath, worn a reasonably decent dress, and had a better one
                        in the back of the buggy. She would cut the Gordian knot with a vengeance.
                        She would not wait to see how they treated her, she would treat them! As for
                        Adam's state, there was only one surmise she could make, and that
                        seemed so incredible, she decided to wait until her mother told her all
                        about whatever the trouble was.
                    As they came in sight of the house, queer feelings took possession of Kate.
                        She struggled to think kindly of her father; she tried to feel pangs of
                        grief over his passing. She was too forthright and had too good memory to
                        succeed. Home had been so unbearable that she had  taken desperate measures to escape it, but as the white house
                        with its tree and shrub filled yard could be seen more plainly, Kate
                        suddenly was filled with the strongest possessive feeling she ever had
                        known. It was home. It was her home. Her place was there, even as Adam had
                        said. She felt a sudden revulsion against herself that she had stayed away
                        seven years; she should have taken her chances and at least gone to see her
                        mother. She leaned from the buggy and watched for the first glimpse of the
                        tall, gaunt, dark woman, who had brought their big brood into the world and
                        stood squarely with her husband, against every one of them, in each thing he
                        proposed.
                    Now he was gone. No doubt he had carried out his intentions. No doubt she was
                        standing by him as always. Kate gathered her skirts, but Adam passed the
                        house, driving furiously as ever, and he only slackened speed when he was
                        forced to at the turn from the road to the lane. He stopped the buggy in the
                        barnyard, got out, and began unharnessing the horse. Kate sat still and
                        watched him until he led it away, then she stepped down and started across
                        the barnyard, down the lane leading to the dooryard. As she closed the yard
                        gate and rounded a widely spreading snowball bush, her heart was pounding
                        wildly. What was coming? How would the other boys act, if Adam, the best
                        balanced man of them all, was behaving as he was? How would her mother greet
                        her? With the thought, Kate realized that she was so homesick for her mother
                        that she would do or  give anything in the
                        world to see her. Then there was a dragging step, a short, sharp breath, and
                        wheeling, Kate stood facing her mother. She had come from the potato patch
                        back of the orchard, carrying a pail of potatoes in each hand. Her face was
                        haggard, her eyes bloodshot, her hair falling in dark tags, her cheeks red
                        with exertion. They stood facing each other. At the first glimpse Kate
                        cried, "Oh, Mother," and sprang toward her. Then she
                        stopped, while her heart again failed her, for from the astonishment on her
                        mother's face, Kate saw instantly that she was surprised, and had
                        neither sent for nor expected her. She was nauseatingly disappointed. Adam
                        had said she was wanted, had been sent for. Kate's face was
                        twitching, her lips quivering, but she did not hesitate more than an
                        instant.
                    "I see you were not expecting me," she said.
                        "I'm sorry. Adam came after me. I wouldn't have
                        come if he hadn't said you sent for me."
                    Kate paused a minute hopefully. Her mother looked at her steadily.
                    "I'm sorry," Kate repeated. "I
                        don't see why he said that."
                    By that time the pain in her heart was so fierce she caught her breath
                        sharply, and pressed her hand hard against her side. Her mother stooped, set
                        down the buckets, and taking off her sunbonnet, wiped the sweat from her
                        lined face with the curtain.
                    "Well, I do," she said tersely.
                    "Why?" demanded Kate.
                    
                    "To see if he could use you to serve his own interests, of
                        course," answered her mother. "He lied good and hard when
                        he said I sent for you; I didn't. I probably wouldn't
                        a-had the sense to do it. But since you are here, I don't mind
                        telling you that I never was so glad to see any one in all my born
                        days."
                    Mrs. Bates drew herself full height, set her lips, stiffened her jaw, and
                        again used the bonnet skirt on her face and neck. Kate picked up the
                        potatoes, to hide the big tears that gushed from her eyes, and leading the
                        way toward the house she said: "Come over here in the shade. Why
                        should you be out digging potatoes?"
                    "Oh, they's enough here, and willing enough," said
                        Mrs. Bates. "Slipped off to get away from them. It was the quietest
                        and the peacefullest out there, Kate. I'd most liked to stay all
                        day, but it's getting on to dinner time, and I'm short of
                        potatoes."
                    "Never mind the potatoes," said Kate. "Let the
                        folks serve themselves if they are hungry."
                    She went to the side of the smoke house, picked up a bench turned up there,
                        and carrying it to the shady side of a widely spreading privet bush, she
                        placed it where it would be best screened from both house and barn. Then
                        setting the potatoes in the shade, she went to her mother, put her arm
                        around her, and drew her to the seat. She took her handkerchief and wiped
                        her face, smoothed back her straggled hair, and pulling out a pin, fastened
                        the coil better.
                    "Now rest a bit," she said, "and then tell me why
                        you  are glad to see me, and exactly what
                        you'd like me to do here. Mind, I've been away seven
                        years, and Adam told me not a word, except that Father was gone."
                    "Humph! All missed the mark again," commented Mrs. Bates
                        dryly. "They all said he'd gone to fill you up, and get
                        you on his side."
                    "Mother, what is the trouble?" asked Kate. "Take
                        your time and tell me what has happened, and what you
                        want, not what Adam wants."
                    Mrs. Bates relaxed her body a trifle, but gripped her hands tightly together
                        in her lap.
                    "Well, it was quick work," she said. "It all came
                        yesterday afternoon just like being hit by lightning. Pa hadn't
                        failed a particle that any one could see. Ate a big dinner of ham
                        an' boiled dumplings, an' him an' Hiram was in
                        the west field. It was scorchin' hot an' first Hiram saw,
                        Pa was down. Sam Langley was passin' an' helped get him
                        in, an' took our horse an' ran for Robert. He was in the
                        country but Sam brought another doctor real quick, an' he seemed to
                        fetch Pa out of it in good shape, so we thought he'd be all right,
                        mebby by morning, though the doctor said he'd have to hole up a day
                        or two. He went away, promisin' to send Robert back, and Hiram went
                        home to feed. I set by Pa fanning him an' putting cloths on his
                        head. All at once he began to chill.
                    "We thought it was only the way a-body was with sunstroke, and past
                        pilin' on blankets, we didn't pay much attention. He said he was all right, so I went to milk.  Before I left I gave him a drink,
                        an' he asked me to feel in his pants pocket an' get the
                        key an' hand him the deed box, till he'd see if everything
                        was right. Said he guessed he'd had a close call. You know how he
                        was. I got him the box and went to do the evening work. I hurried fast as I
                        could. Coming back, clear acrost the yard I smelt burning wool, an'
                        I dropped the milk an' ran. I dunno no more about just what
                        happened 'an you do. The house was full of smoke. Pa was on the
                        floor, most to the sitting-room door, his head and hair and hands awfully
                        burned, his shirt burned off, laying face down, and clear gone. The minute I
                        seen the way he laid, I knew he was gone. The bed was pourin' smoke
                        and one little blaze about six inches high was shootin' up to the
                        top. I got that out, and then I saw most of the fire was smothered between
                        the blankets where he'd thrown them back to get out of the bed. I
                        dunno why he fooled with the lamp. It always stood on the little table in
                        his reach, but it was light enough to read fine print. All I can figure is
                        that the light was going out of his eyes, an' he
                        thought it was gettin' dark, so he tried to light
                        the lamp to see the deeds. He was fingerin' them when I left, but
                        he didn't say he couldn't see them. The lamp was just on
                        the bare edge of the table, the wick way up an' blackened, the
                        chimney smashed on the floor, the bed afire."
                    "Those deeds are burned?" gasped Kate. "All of
                        them? Are they all gone?"
                    "Every last one," said Mrs. Bates.
                    
                    "Well, if one is gone, thank God they all
                        are," said Kate.
                    Her mother turned swiftly and caught her arm.
                    "Say that again!" she cried eagerly.
                    "Maybe I'm wrong about it, but
                        it's what I think," said Kate. "If the boys are
                        crazy over all of them being gone, they'd do murder if part had
                        theirs, and the others had not."
                    Mrs. Bates doubled over on Kate's shoulder suddenly and struggled
                        with an inward spasm.
                    "You poor thing," said Kate. "This is dreadful.
                        All of us know how you loved him, how you worked together. Can you think of
                        anything I can do? Is there any special thing the matter?"
                    "I'm afraid!" whispered Mrs. Bates. "Oh,
                        Katie, I'm so afraid. You know how set he was,
                        you know how he worked himself and all of ushe had to know what he was
                        doing, when he fought the fire till the shirt burned off him"her
                        voice dropped to a harsh whisper"what do you s'pose
                        he's doing now?"
                    Any form of religious belief was a subject that never had been touched upon
                        or talked of in the Bates family. Money was their God, work their religion;
                        Kate looked at her mother curiously.
                    "You mean you believe in after life?" she asked.
                    "Why, I suppose there must be something,"
                        she said.
                    "I think so myself," said Kate. "I always have.
                        think there is a God, and that Father is facing Him now, and finding out for
                        the first time in his experience that he is 
                        very small potatoes, and what he planned and slaved for amounted to nothing,
                        in the scheme of the universe. I can't imagine Father being subdued
                        by anything on earth, but it appeals to me that he will cut a pathetic
                        figure before the throne of an Almighty God."
                    A slow grin twisted Mrs. Bates' lips.
                    "Well, wherever he went," she said, "I guess he
                        found out pretty quick that he was some place at last where he
                        couldn't be boss."
                    "I'm very sure he has," said Kate, "and I
                        am equally sure the discipline will be good for him. But his sons! His
                        precious sons! What are they doing?"
                    "Taking it according to their bent," said Mrs. Bates.
                        "Adam is insane, Hiram is crying."
                    "Have you had a lawyer?" asked Kate.
                    "What for? We all know the law on this subject better than we know
                        our a, b, c's."
                    "Did your deed for this place go, too?" asked Kate.
                    "Yes," said Mrs. Bates, "but mine was recorded,
                        none of the others were. I get a third, and the rest will be cut up and
                        divided, share and share alike, among all of you, equally.
                        I think it's going to kill Adam and ruin Andrew."
                    "It won't do either. But this is awful. I can see how the
                        boys feel, and really, Mother, this is no more fair to them than things
                        always have been for the girls. By the way, what are they doing?"
                    "Same as the boys, acting out their natures. Mary is openly
                        rejoicing. So is Nancy Ellen. Hannah and Bertha at least can see the
                        boys' side. The others say  one thing
                        before the boys and another among themselves. In the end the girls will have
                        their shares and nobody can blame them. I don't myself, but I think
                        Pa will rise from his grave when those farms are torn up."
                    "Don't worry," said Kate. "He will have
                        learned by now that graves are merely incidental, and that he has no option
                        on real estate where he is. Leave him to his harp, and tell me what you want
                        done."
                    "I want you to see that it was all accidental. I want you to take
                        care of me. I want you should think out the fair thing for
                        all of us to do. I want you to keep sane and cool-headed
                        and shame the others into behaving themselves. And I want you to smash down
                        hard on their everlasting, 'why didn't you do
                        this?' and 'why didn't you do that?' I
                        reckon I've been told five hundred times a-ready that I
                        shouldn't a-give him the deeds. Josie says it, an' then
                        she sings it. Not give them to him! How could I help
                        giving them to him? He'd a-got up and got them himself if I
                        hadn't!"
                    "You have cut out something of a job for me," said Kate,
                        "but I'll do my best. Anyway, I can take care of you. Come
                        on into the house now, and let me clean you up, and then I'll talk
                        the rest of them into reason, if you stand back of me, and let them see
                        I'm acting for you."
                    "You go ahead," said Mrs. Bates. "I'll
                        back whatever you say. But keep them off of me! Keep them off of
                        me!"
                    After Kate had bathed her mother, helped her into fresh clothes, and brushed
                        her hair, she coaxed her to lie  down, and by
                        diplomatic talk and stroking her head, finally soothed her to sleep. Then
                        she went down and announced the fact, asked them all to be quiet, and began
                        making her way from group to group in an effort to restore mental balance
                        and sanity. After Kate had invited all of them to go home and stay until
                        time for the funeral Sunday morning, and all of them had emphatically
                        declined, and eagerly had gone on straining the situation to the breaking
                        point, Kate gave up and began setting the table. When any of them tried to
                        talk or argue with her she said conclusively: "I shall not say one
                        word about this until Monday. Then we will talk things over, and find where
                        we stand, and what Mother wants. This would be much easier for all of us, if
                        you'd all go home and calm down, and plan out what you think would
                        be the fair and just thing to do."
                    Before evening Kate was back exactly where she left off, for when Mrs. Bates
                        came downstairs, her nerves quieted by her long sleep, she asked Kate what
                        would be best about each question that arose, while Kate answered as nearly
                        for all of them as her judgment and common sense dictated; but she gave the
                        answer in her own way, and she paved the way by making a short, sharp speech
                        when the first person said in her hearing that "Mother never should
                        have given him the deeds." Not one of them said that again, while
                        at Kate's suggestion, mentally and on scraps of paper, every single
                        one of them figured that one third of sixteen hundred and fifty was five
                        hundred and fifty; subtracted from sixteen hundred and  fifty this left one thousand one hundred, which, divided by
                        sixteen, gave sixty-eight and three fourths. This result gave Josie the
                        hysterics, strong and capable though she was; made Hiram violently ill, so
                        that he resorted to garden palings for a support; while Agatha used her
                        influence suddenly, and took Adam, Jr., home.
                    As she came to Kate to say that they were going, Agatha was white as
                        possible, her thin lips compressed, a red spot burning on either cheek.
                    "Adam and I shall take our departure now, Katherine," she
                        said, standing very stiffly, her head held higher than Kate ever had thought
                        it could be lifted. Kate put her arm around her sister-in-law and gave her a
                        hearty hug: "Tell Adam I'll do what I think is fair and
                        just; and use all the influence I have to get the others to do the
                        same," she said.
                    "Fruitless!" said Agatha. "Fruitless! Reason and
                        justice have departed from this abode. I shall hasten my pace, and take Adam
                        where my influence is paramount. The state of affairs here is deplorable,
                        perfectly deplorable! I shall not be missed, and I shall leave my male
                        offspring to take the place of his poor, defrauded father."
                    Adam, 3d, was now a tall, handsome young man of twenty-two, quite as fond of
                        Kate as ever. He wiped the dishes, and when the evening work was finished,
                        they talked with Mrs. Bates until they knew her every wish. The children had
                        planned for a funeral from the church, because it was large enough to seat
                        the family and friends  in comfort; but when
                        they mentioned this to Mrs. Bates, she delivered an ultimatum on the
                        instant: "You'll do no such thing!" she cried.
                        "Pa never went to that church living; I'll not sanction
                        his being carried there feet first, when he's helpless. And
                        we'll not scandalize the neighbours by fighting over money on
                        Sunday, either. You'll all come Monday morning, if you want
                        anything to say about this. If you don't, I'll put through
                        the business in short order. I'm sick to my soul of the whole
                        thing. I'll wash my hands of it as quick as possible."
                    So the families all went to their homes; Kate helped her mother to bed; and
                        then she and Adam, 3d, tried to plan what would be best for the morrow;
                        afterward they sat down and figured until almost dawn.
                    "There's no faintest possibility of pleasing
                        everyone," said Kate. "The level best we can do is to
                        devise some scheme whereby everyone will come as nearly being satisfied as
                        possible."
                    "Can Aunt Josie and Aunt Mary keep from fighting across the
                        grave?" asked Adam.
                    "Only Heaven knows," said Kate.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    THE BANNER HAND
                    
                    
                        SUNDAY morning Kate arose early and had the house clean
                        and everything ready when the first carriage load drove into the barnyard.
                        As she helped her mother to dress, Mrs. Bates again evidenced a rebellious
                        spirit. Nancy Ellen had slipped upstairs and sewed fine white ruching in the
                        neck and sleeves of her mother's best dress, her only dress, in
                        fact, aside from the calicoes she worked in. Kate combed her
                        mother's hair and drew it in loose waves across her temples. As she
                        produced the dress, Mrs. Bates drew back.
                    "What did you stick them gew-gaws onto my dress for?" she
                        demanded.
                    "I didn't," said Kate.
                    "Oh, it was Nancy Ellen! Well, I don't see why she wanted
                        to make a laughing stock of me," said Mrs. Bates.
                    "She didn't!" said Kate. "Everyone is
                        wearing ruching now; she wanted her mother to have what the best of them
                        have."
                    "Humph!" said Mrs. Bates. "Well, I reckon I can
                        stand it until noon, but it's going to be a hot dose."
                    "Haven't you a thin black dress, Mother?" asked
                        Kate.
                    "No," said Mrs. Bates, "I haven't; but
                        you can make  a pretty safe bet that I will
                        have one before I start any-where again in such weather as this."
                    "That's the proper spirit," said Kate.
                        "There comes Andrew. Let me put your bonnet on."
                    She set the fine black bonnet Nancy Ellen had bought on Mrs. Bates'
                        head at the proper angle and tied the long, wide silk ribbon beneath her
                        chin. Mrs. Bates sat in martyr-like resignation. Kate was pleased with her
                        mother's appearance.
                    "Look in the mirror," she said. "See what a
                        handsome lady you are."
                    "I ain't seen in a looking-glass since I don't
                        know when," said Mrs. Bates. "Why should I begin now?
                        Chances are 'at you have rigged me up until I'll set the
                        neighbours laughing, or else to saying that I didn't wait until the
                        breath was out of Pa's body to begin primping."
                    "Nonsense, Mother," said Kate. "Nobody will say or
                        think anything. Everyone will recognize Nancy Ellen's fine
                        Spencerian hand in that bonnet and ruching. Now for your veil!"
                    Mrs. Bates arose from her chair, and stepped back.
                    "There, there, Katie!" she said. "You've
                        gone far enough. I'll be sweat to a lather in this dress;
                        I'll wear the head-riggin', because I've got to,
                        or set the neighbours talkin' how mean Pa was not to let me have a
                        bonnet; and between the two I'd rather they'd take it out
                        on me than on him." She steadied herself by the chair back and
                        looked Kate in the eyes. "Pa was always the banner hand to boss
                        everything," she said. "He was so big  and strong, and so all-fired sure he was right, I never
                        contraried him in the start, so before I knowed it, I was waiting for him to
                        say what to do, and then agreeing with him, even when I knowed he was wrong. So goin' we got along fine, but it give me an awful smothered feeling at times."
                    Kate stood looking at her mother intently, her brain racing, for she was
                        thinking to herself: "Good Lord! She means that to preserve the
                        appearance of self-respect she systematically agreed with him, whether she
                        thought he was right or wrong; because she was not able to hold her own
                        against him. Nearly fifty years of life like that!"
                    Kate tossed the heavy black crepe veil back on the bed.
                        "Mother," she said, "here alone and between us,
                        if I promise never to tell a living soul, will you tell me the truth about
                        that deed business?" Mrs. Bates seemed so agitated Kate added:
                        "I mean how it started. If you thought it was right and a fair
                        thing to do."
                    "Yes, I'll tell you that," said Mrs. Bates.
                        "It was not fair, and I saw it; I saw it good and plenty. There was
                        no use to fight him; that would only a-drove him to record them, but I was
                        sick of it, an' I told him so."
                    Kate was pinning her hat.
                    "I have planned for you to walk with Adam," she said.
                    "Well, you can just change that plan, so far as I
                        am concerned," said Mrs. Bates with finality. "I
                        ain't a-goin' with Adam. Somebody had told him about the
                        deeds before he got here. He came in --vin', and
                        he  talked to me something terrible. He was
                        the first to say I shouldn't a-give Pa the box. Not
                            give it to him! An' he went farther than that, till I just
                        rose up an' called him down proper; but I ain't
                        feelin' good at him, an' I ain't goin'
                        with him. I am goin' with you. I want somebody with me that
                        understands me, and feels a little for me, an' I want the
                        neighbours to see that the minute I'm boss, such a fine girl as you
                        has her rightful place in her home. I'll go with you, or
                        I'll sit down on this chair, and sit here."
                    "But you didn't send for me," said Kate.
                    "No, I hadn't quite got round to it yet; but I was coming.
                        I'd told all of them that you were the only one in the lot who had
                        any sense; and I'd said I wished you were here,
                        and as I see it, I'd a-sent for you yesterday afternoon about three
                        o'clock. I was coming to it fast. I didn't feel just like
                        standing up for myself; but I'd took about all fault-finding it was
                        in me to bear. Just about three o'clock I'd a-sent for
                        you, Katie, sure as God made little apples."
                    "All right then," said Kate, "but if you
                        don't tell them, they'll always say I took the
                        lead."
                    "Well, they got to say something," said Mrs. Bates.
                        "Most of 'em would die if they had to keep their mouths
                        shut awhile; but I'll tell them fast enough."
                    Then she led the way downstairs. There were enough members of the immediate
                        family to pack the front rooms of the house, the neighbours filled the
                        dining room and dooryard. The church choir sang a hymn in front of  the house, the minister stood on the front
                        steps and read a chapter, and told where Mr. Bates had been born, married,
                        the size of his family and possessions, said he was a good father, an honest
                        neighbour, and very sensibly left his future with his God. Then the choir
                        sang again and all started to their conveyances. As the breaking up began
                        outside, Mrs. Bates arose and stepped to the foot of the casket. She
                        steadied herself by it and said: "Some time back, I promised Pa
                        that if he went before I did, at this time in his funeral ceremony I would
                        set his black tin box on the foot of his coffin and unlock it before all of
                        you, and in the order in which they lay, beginning with Adam, Jr., hand each
                        of you boys the deed Pa had made you for the land you live on. You all know
                            what happened. None of you know just how. It wouldn't bring the deeds back if
                        you did. They're gone. But I want you boys to follow your father to
                        his grave with nothing in your hearts against him. He was
                        all for the men. I don't ever want to hear any of you criticize him
                        about this, or me, either. He did his best to make you upstanding men in
                        your community, his one failing being that he liked being an upstanding man
                        himself so well that he carried it too far; but his intentions was the best.
                        As for me, I'd no idea how sick he was, and nobody else had. I
                        minded him just like all the rest of you always did; the boys especially. From the church I want all of you to go home until
                        to-morrow morning, and then I want my sons and daughters by birth only, to come here, and we'll talk things over,  quietly, quietly, mind you;
                        and decide what to do. Katie will you come with me?"
                    It was not quite a tearless funeral. Some of the daughters-in-law wept from
                        nervous excitement; and some of the little children cried with fear, but
                        there were no tears from the wife of Adam Bates, or his sons and daughters.
                        And when he was left to the mercies of time, all of them followed Mrs.
                        Bates' orders, except Nancy Ellen and Robert, who stopped to help
                        Kate with the dinner. Kate slipped into her second dress and went to work.
                        Mrs. Bates untied her bonnet strings and unfastened her dress neck as they
                        started home. She unbuttoned her waist going up the back walk and pulled it
                        off at the door.
                    "Well, if I ever put that thing on in July again," she
                        said, "you can use my head for a knock-maul. Nancy Ellen,
                        can't you stop at a store as you come out in the morning and get
                        the goods, and you girls run me up a dress that is nice enough to go out in,
                        and not so hot it starts me burning before my time?"
                    "Of course I can," said Nancy Ellen. "About what
                        do you want to pay, Mother?"
                    "Whatever it takes to get a decent and a cool dress; cool, mind
                        you," said Mrs. Bates, "an' any colour but
                        black."
                    "Why, Mother!" cried Nancy Ellen "it must be
                        black!"
                    "No," said Mrs. Bates. "Pa kept me in black all my
                        life on the supposition it showed the dirt the least.  There's nothing in that. It shows dirt worse
                        'an white. I got my fill of black. You can get a nice cool gray, if
                        you want me to wear it."
                    "Well, I never!" said Nancy Ellen. "What will the
                        neighbours say?"
                    "What do I care?" asked Mrs. Bates.
                        "They've talked about me all my life, I'd be
                        kinda lonesome if they's to quit."
                    Dinner over, Kate proposed that her mother should lie down while they washed
                        the dishes.
                    "I would like a little rest," said Mrs. Bates. "I
                        guess I'll go upstairs."
                    "You'll do nothing of the kind," said Kate.
                        "It's dreadfully hot up there. Go in the spare room, where
                        it is cool; we'll keep quiet. I am going to stay Tuesday until I
                        move you in there, anyway. It's smaller, but it's big
                        enough for one, and you'll feel much better there."
                    "Oh, Katie, I'm so glad you thought of that,"
                        cried Mrs. Bates. "I been thinking and thinking about it, and it
                        just seems as if I can't ever steel myself to go into that room to
                        sleep again. I'll never enter that door that I don't
                        see"
                    "You'll never enter it again as your room," said
                        Kate. "I'll fix you up before I go; and Sally Whistler
                        told me last evening she would come and make her home with you if you wanted
                        her. You like Sally, don't you?"
                    "Yes, I like her fine," said Mrs. Bates.
                    Quietly as possible the girls washed the dishes, pulled down the blinds,
                        closed the front door, and slipped down  in
                        the orchard with Robert to talk things over. Nancy Ellen was stiffly
                        reserved with Kate, but she would speak when she was
                        spoken to, which was so much better than silence that Kate was happy over
                        it. Robert was himself. Kate thought she had never liked him so well. He
                        seemed to grow even kinder and more considerate as the years passed. Nancy
                        Ellen was prettier than Kate ever had seen her, but there was a line of
                        discontent around her mouth, and she spoke pettishly on slight provocation,
                        or none at all. Now she was openly, brazenly, brutally, frank in her
                        rejoicing. She thought it was the best "joke" that ever happened to the boys; and she said so
                        repeatedly. Kate found her lips closing more tightly and a slight feeling of
                        revulsion growing in her heart. Surely in Nancy Ellen's lovely
                        home, cared for and shielded in every way, she had no such need of money as
                        Kate had herself. She was delighted when Nancy Ellen said she was sleepy,
                        and was going to the living-room lounge for a nap. Then Kate produced her
                        sheet of figures. She and Robert talked the situation over and carefully
                        figured on how an adjustment, fair to all, could be made, until they were
                        called to supper.
                    After supper Nancy Ellen and Robert went home, while Kate and her mother sat
                        on the back porch and talked until Kate had a clear understanding and a
                        definite plan in her mind, which was that much improvement over wearing
                        herself out in bitter revilings, or selfish rejoicing over her
                        brothers' misfortune. Her mother listened to all she had to say,
                        asked a question occasionally, objected  to
                        some things, and suggested others. They arose when they had covered every
                        contingency they could think of and went upstairs to bed, even though the
                        downstairs was cooler.
                    As she undressed, Mrs. Bates said slowly: "Now in the morning,
                        I'll speak my piece first; and I'll say it pretty plain. I
                        got the whip-hand here for once in my life. They can't rave and
                        fight here, and insult me again, as they did Friday night and Saturday till
                        you got here an' shut 'em up. I won't stand it,
                        that's flat! I'll tell 'em so, and that you speak
                        for me, because you can figure faster and express yourself plainer; but
                        insist that there be no fussing, an' I'll back you. I
                        don't know just what life has been doing to you, Katie, but Lord!
                        it has made a fine woman of you."
                    Kate set her lips in an even line and said nothing, but her heart was the
                        gladdest it had been in years.
                    Her mother continued: "Seems like Nancy Ellen had all the chance.
                        Most folks thought she was a lot the purtiest to start with, though I
                        can't say that I ever saw so much difference. She's had
                        leisure an' pettin', and her husband has made a mint
                        o' money; she's gone all over the country with him, and
                        the more chance she has, the narrower she grows, and the more
                        discontenteder. One thing, she is awful disappointed about havin'
                        no children. I pity her about that."
                    "Is it because she's a twin?" asked Kate.
                    "I'm afraid so," said Mrs. Bates. "You
                        can't tell much about those things, they just seem to happen.  Robert and Nancy Ellen feel awful bad about
                        it. Still, she might do for others what she would for her own. The Lord
                        knows there are enough mighty nice children in the world who need mothering.
                        I want to see your children, Katie. Are they nice little folks, straight and
                        good looking?"
                    "The boy is," said Kate. "The girl is good, with
                        the exception of being the most stubborn child I've ever seen. She
                        looks so much like a woman it almost sickens me to think of that I have to
                        drive myself to do her justice."
                    "What a pity!" said Mrs. Bates, slowly.
                    "Oh, they are healthy, happy youngsters," said Kate.
                        "They get as much as we ever did, and don't expect any
                        more. I have yet to see a demonstrative Bates."
                    "Humph!" said Mrs. Bates. "Well, you ought to been
                        here Friday night, and I thought Adam came precious near it
                        Saturday."
                    "Demonstrating power, or anger, yes," said Kate.
                        "I meant affection. And isn't it the queerest thing how
                        people are made? Of all the boys, Adam is the one who has had the most
                        softening influences, and who has made the most money, and yet he's
                        acting the worst of all. It really seems as if failure and hardship make
                        more of a human being of folks than success."
                    "You're right," said Mrs. Bates. "Look at
                        Nancy Ellen and Adam. Sometimes I think Adam has been pretty much galled
                        with Agatha and her money all these years; and it just drives him crazy to
                        think of having  still less than she has. Have
                        you got your figures all set down, to back you up, Katie?"
                    "Yes," said Kate. "I've gone all over it
                        with Robert, and he thinks it's the best and only thing that can be
                        done. Now go to sleep."
                    Each knew that the other was awake most of the night, but very few words
                        passed between them. They were up early, dressed, and waiting when the first
                        carriage stopped at the gate. Kate told her mother to stay where she would
                        not be worried until she was needed, and went down herself to meet her
                        brothers and sisters in the big living room. When the last one arrived, she
                        called her mother. Mrs. Bates came down looking hollow-eyed, haggard, and
                        grim, as none of her children ever before had seen her. She walked directly
                        to the little table at the end of the room, and while still standing she
                        said: "Now I've got a few words to say, and then
                        I'll turn this over to a younger head an' one better at
                        figures than mine. I've said my say as to Pa, yesterday. Now
                        I'll say this, for myself. I got my start,
                        minding Pa, and agreeing with him, young; but you needn't any of
                        you throw it in my teeth now, that I did. There is only one woman among you, and no man who ever disobeyed
                        him. Katie stood up to him once, and got seven years from home to punish her
                        and me. He wasn't right then, and I knew it, as
                        I'd often known it before, and pretty often since; but no woman God
                        ever made could have lived with Adam Bates as his wife and contraried him. I
                        didn't mind him any quicker or any 
                        oftener than the rest of you; keep that pretty clear in your heads, and
                        don't one of you dare open your mouth again to tell me, as you did
                        Saturday, what I should a-done, and what I shouldn't. I've had the law of this explained to
                        me; you all know it for that matter. By the law, I get this place and one
                        third of all the other land and money. I don't know just what money
                        there is at the bank or in notes and mortgages, but a sixteenth of it after
                        my third is taken out ain't going to make or break any of you.
                        I've told Katie what I'm willing to do on my part and she
                        will explain it, and then tell you about a plan she has fixed up. As for me,
                        you can take it or leave it. If you take it, well and good; if you
                        don't, the law will be set in motion to-day, and it will take its
                        course to the end. It all depends on you.
                    
                    "Now two things more. At the start, what Pa wanted to do seemed to
                        me right, and I agreed with him and worked with him. But when my girls began
                        to grow up and I saw how they felt, and how they struggled and worked, and
                        how the women you boys married went ahead of my own girls, and had finer
                        homes, an' carriages, and easier times, I got pretty sick of it,
                        and I told Pa so more'n once. He just raved whenever I did,
                        an' he always carried his keys in his pocket. I never touched his
                        chest key in my life, till I handed him his deed box Friday afternoon. But I
                        agree with my girls. It's fair and right, since things have come
                        out as they have, that they should have their shares. I would, too.
                    "The other thing is just this: I'm tired to death of the
                             whole business. I want peace and rest and
                        I want it quick. Friday and Saturday I was so scared and so knocked out I
                        s'pose I'd 'a' took it if one of the
                        sucking babies had riz up and commenced to tell me what I should a-done, and
                        what I shouldn't. I'm through with that.
                        You will all keep civil tongues in your heads this morning, or I'll
                        get up and go upstairs, an' lock myself in a room till
                        you're gone, an' if I go, it will mean that the law takes
                        its course; and if it does, there will be three hundred acres less land to
                        divide. You've had Pa on your hands all your lives, now you will go
                        civil, and you will go easy, or you will get a taste of Ma. I take no more
                        talk from anybody. Katie, go ahead with your figures."
                    Kate spread her sheet on the table and glanced around the room:
                    "The Milton County records show sixteen hundred and fifty acres
                        standing in Father's name," she said. "Of these,
                        Mother is heir to five hundred and fifty acres, leaving one thousand one
                        hundred acres to be divided among sixteen of us, which gives sixty-eight and
                        three fourths acres to each. This land is the finest that proper
                        fertilization and careful handling can make. Even the poorest is the cream
                        of the country as compared with the surrounding farms. As a basis of
                        estimate I have taken one hundred dollars an acre as a fair selling figure.
                        Some is worth more, some less, but that is a good average. This would make
                        the share of each of us in cash that could easily be realized, six thousand
                        eight hundred and  seventy-five dollars.
                        Whatever else is in mortgages, notes, and money can be collected as it is
                        due, deposited in some bank, and when it is all in, divided equally among
                        us, after deducting Mother's third. Now this is the law, and those
                        are the figures, but I shall venture to say that none of us feel right about it, or ever will."
                    An emphatic murmur of approval ran among the boys, Mary and Nancy Ellen
                        stoutly declared that they did.
                    "Oh, no, you don't!" said Kate. "If God
                        made any woman of you so that she feels right and clean in her conscience
                        about this deal, he made her wrong, and that is a thing
                        that has not yet been proven of God. As I see it, here is the boys'
                        side: from childhood they were told, bribed, and urged to miss holidays,
                        work all week, and often on Sunday, to push and slave on the promise of this
                        land at twenty-one. They all got the land and money to stock it and build
                        homes. They were told it was theirs, required to pay the taxes on it, and
                        also to labour at any time and without wages for Father. Not one of the boys
                        but has done several hundred dollars' worth of work on
                        Father's farm for nothing, to keep him satisfied and to insure
                        getting his deed. All these years, each man has paid his taxes, put
                        thousands in improvements, in rebuilding homes and barns, fertilizing, and
                        developing his land. Each one of these farms is worth nearly twice what it
                        was the day it was received. That the boys should lose all this is no cause
                        for rejoicing on the part of any true woman; as a fact, no true woman will
                        allow such a thing to happen"
                    
                    "Speak for yourself!" cried several of the girls at once.
                    "Now right here is where we come to a perfect
                        understanding," said Kate. "I did say that for myself, but
                        in the main what I say, I say for Mother. Now you will not
                        one of you interrupt me again, or this meeting closes, and each of you
                        stands to lose more than two thousand dollars, which is worth being civil
                        for, for quite a while. No more of that! I say any woman should be ashamed
                        to take advantage of her brother through an accident; and rob him of years
                        of work and money he was perfectly justified in thinking was his, I, for
                        one, refuse to do it, and I want and need money probably more than any of
                        you. To tear up these farms, to take more than half from the boys, is too
                        much. On the other hand, for the girls to help earn the land, to go with no
                        inheritance at all, is even more unfair. Now in order to arrive at a
                        compromise that will leave each boy his farm, and give each girl the nearest
                        possible to a fair amount, figuring in what the boys have spent in taxes and
                        work for Father, and what each girl has lost by not having
                        her money to handle all these years, it is necessary to split the difference
                        between the time Adam, the eldest, has had his inheritance, and Hiram, the
                        youngest, came into possession, which by taking from and adding to, gives a
                        fair average of fifteen years. Now Mother proposes if we will enter into an
                        agreement this morning with no words and no wrangling, to settle on this
                        basis; she will relinquish her third of all other  land, and keep only this home farm. She even will allow the
                        fifty lying across the road to be sold and the money put into a general fund
                        for the share of the girls. She will turn into this fund all money from
                        notes and mortgages, and the sale of all stock, implements, etc., here,
                        except what she wants to keep for her use, and the sum of three thousand
                        dollars in cash, to provide against old age. This releases quite a sum of
                        money, and three hundred and fifty acres of land, which she gives to the
                        boys to start this fund as her recompense for their work and loss through a
                        scheme in which she had a share in the start. She does this only on the
                        understanding that the boys form a pool, and in some way take from what they
                        have saved, sell timber or cattle, or borrow enough money to add to this
                        sufficient to pay to each girl six thousand dollars in cash, in three
                        months. Now get out your pencils and figure. Start with the original number
                        of acres at fifty dollars an acre which is what it cost Father on an
                        average. Balance against each other what the boys have lost in tax and work,
                        and the girls have lost in not having their money to handle, and cross it
                        off. Then figure, not on a basis of what the boys have made this land worth,
                        but on what it cost Father's estate to buy, build on, and stock
                        each farm. Strike the fifteen-year average on prices and profits. Figure
                        that the girls get all their money practically immediately, to pay for the
                        time they have been out of it; while each boy assumes an equal share of the
                        indebtedness required to finish out the six thousand,  after Mother has turned in what she is willing to, if this is
                        settled here and now."
                    "Then I understand," said Mary, "that if we take
                        under the law, each of us is entitled to sixty-eight and three quarter
                        acres; and if we take under Mother's proposition we are entitled to
                        eighty-seven and a half acres."
                    "No, no, E. A.," said Kate, the old nickname for
                        "Exceptional Ability" slipping out before she thought.
                        'No, no! Not so! You take sixty-eight and three quarters under the
                        law. Mother's proposition is made only to the
                        boys, and only on condition that they settle here and now; because she feels
                        responsible to them for her share in rearing them and starting them out as
                        she did. By accepting her proposition you lose eight hundred and
                        seventy-five dollars, approximately. The boys lose on the same basis,
                        figuring at fifty dollars an acre, six thousand five hundred and sixty-two
                        dollars and fifty cents, plus their work and taxes, and minus what Mother
                        will turn in, which will be about, let me see It will take a pool of
                        fifty-four thousand dollars to pay each of us six thousand. If Mother raises
                        thirty-five thousand, plus sale money and notes, it will leave about
                        nineteen thousand for the boys, which will divide up at nearly two thousand
                        five hundred for them to lose, as against less than a thousand for us. That
                        should be enough to square matters with any right-minded woman, even in our
                        positions. It will give us that much cash in hand, it will leave the boys,
                        some of the younger ones, in debt  for years,
                        if they hold their land. What more do you want?"
                    "I want the last cent that is coming to me," said Mary.
                    "I thought you would," said Kate. "Yet you have
                        the best home, and the most money, of any of the girls living on farms. I
                        settle under this proposition, because it is fair and just, and what Mother
                        wants done. If she feels that this is defrauding the girls any, she can
                        arrange to leave what she has to us at her death, which would more than
                        square matters in our favour"
                    "You hold on there, Katie," said Mrs. Bates.
                        "You're going too fast! I'll get what's
                        coming to me, and hang on to it awhile, before I decide which way the cat
                        jumps. I reckon you'll all admit that in mothering the sixteen of
                        you, doing my share indoors and out, and living with Pa
                        for all these years, I've earned it. I'll not tie myself
                        up in any way. I'll do just what I please with mine. Figure in all
                        I've told you to; for the restlet be!"
                    "I beg your pardon," said Kate. "You're
                        right, of course. I'll sign this, and I shall expect every sister I
                        have to do the same, quickly and cheerfully, as the best way out of a bad
                        business that has hurt all of us for years, and then I shall expect the boys
                        to follow like men. It's the fairest, decentest thing we can do,
                        let's get it over."
                    Kate picked up the pen, handed it to her mother, signed afterward herself,
                        and then carried it to each of her sisters, leaving Nancy Ellen and Mary
                        until last. All of them signed up to Nancy Ellen. She hesitated,  then she whispered to Kate: "Did
                        Robert?" Kate nodded. Nancy Ellen thought deeply a minute and then
                        said slowly: "I guess it is the quickest and best we can
                        do." So she signed. Mary hesitated longer, but finally added her
                        name. Kate passed on to the boys, beginning with Adam. Slowly he wrote his
                        name, and as he handed back the paper he said: "Thank you, Kate, I
                        believe it's the sanest thing we can do. I can make it easier than
                        the younger boys."
                    "Then help them," said Kate tersely,
                        passing on.
                    Each boy signed in turn, all of them pleased with the chance. It was so much
                        better than they had hoped, that it was a great relief, which most of them
                        admitted; so they followed Adam's example in thanking Kate, for all
                        of them knew that in her brain had originated the scheme, which seemed to
                        make the best of their troubles.
                    Then they sat closer and talked things over calmly and dispassionately. It
                        was agreed that Adam and his mother should drive to Hartley the following
                        afternoon and arrange for him to take out papers of administration for her,
                        and start the adjustment of affairs. They all went home thinking more of
                        each other, and Kate especially, than ever before. Mrs. Bates got dinner
                        while Kate and Nancy Ellen went to work on the cool gray dress, so that it
                        would be ready for the next afternoon. While her mother was away Kate
                        cleaned the spare bedroom and moved her mother's possessions into
                        it. She made it as convenient and comfortable and as pretty as  she could, but the house was bare to
                        austerity, so that her attempt at prettifying was rather a failure. Then she
                        opened the closed room and cleaned it, after studying it most carefully as
                        it stood. The longer she worked, the stronger became a conviction that was
                        slowly working its way into her brain. When she could do no more she packed
                        her telescope, installed Sally Whistler in her father's room, and
                        rode to Hartley with a neighbour. From there she took the Wednesday hack for
                        Walden.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    KATE TAKES THE BIT IN HER TEETH
                    
                    
                        THE hackman was obliging, for after delivering the mail
                        and some parcels, he took Kate to her home. While she waited for him, she
                        walked the ravine bank planning about the mill which was now so sure that
                        she might almost begin work. Surely she might as soon as she finished
                        figuring, for she had visited the Court House in Hartley and found that
                        George's deeds were legal, and in proper shape. Her mind was filled
                        with plans which this time must succeed.
                    As she approached the house she could see the children playing in the yard.
                        It was the first time she ever had been away from them; she wondered if they
                        had missed her. She was amazed to find that they were very decidedly
                        disappointed to see her; but a few pertinent questions developed the reason.
                        Their grandmother had come with her sister; she had spent her time teaching
                        them that their mother was cold, and hard, and abused them, by not treating
                        them as other children were treated. So far as Kate could see they had
                        broken every rule she had ever laid down for them: eaten until their
                        stomachs were out of order, and prayed in their better clothing, until it
                        never would be nice again, while Polly shouted at her  approach: "Give me the oranges and
                        candy. I want to divide them."
                    "Silly," said Kate. "This is too soon.
                        I've no money yet, it will be a long time before I get any; but you
                        shall each have an orange, some candy, and new clothing when I do. Now run
                        see what big fish you can catch."
                    Satisfied, the children obeyed and ran to the creek. Aunt Ollie, worried and
                        angered, told Adam to tell his father that Mother was home and for him to
                        come and take her and grandmother to Walden at once. She had not been able
                        to keep Mrs. Holt from one steady round of mischief; but she argued that her
                        sister could do less, with her on guard, than alone, so she had stayed and
                        done her best; but she knew how Kate would be annoyed, so she believed the
                        best course was to leave as quickly as possible. Kate walked into the house,
                        spoke to both women, and went to her room to change her clothing. Before she
                        had finished, she heard George's voice in the house demanding:
                        "Where's our millionaire lady? I want a look at
                        her."
                    Kate was very tired, slowly relaxing from intense nerve strain, she was
                        holding herself in check about the children. She took a tighter grip, and
                        vowed she would not give Mrs. Holt the satisfaction of seeing her disturbed
                        and provoked, if she killed herself in the effort at self-control. She
                        stepped toward the door.
                    "Here," she called in a clear voice, the tone of which
                        brought George swiftly.
                    "What was he worth, anyway?" he shouted.
                    
                    "Oh, millions and millions," said Kate, sweetly,
                        "at least I think so. It was scarcely a time to
                        discuss finances, in the face of that horrible accident."
                    George laughed. "Oh, you're a good one!" he cried.
                        "Think you can keep a thing like that still? The cats, and the
                        dogs, and the chickens of the whole county know about the deeds the old Land
                        King had made for his sons; and how he got left on it. Served him right,
                        too! We could hear Andrew swear, and see Adam beat his horse, clear over
                        here! That's right! Go ahead! Put on airs! Tell us something we
                        don't know, will you? Maybe you think I
                        wasn't hanging pretty close around that neighbourhood,
                        myself!"
                    "Spying?" cried Kate.
                    "Looking for timber," he sneered. "And never in
                        all my life have I seen anything to beat it. Sixteen hundred and fifty acres
                        of the best land in the world. Your share of land and money together will be
                        every cent of twelve thousand. Oh, I guess I know what you've got
                        up your sleeve, my lady. Come on, shell out! Let's all go
                        celebrate. What did you bring the children?"
                    Kate was rapidly losing patience in spite of her resolves.
                    "Myself," she said. "From their appearance and
                        actions, goodness knows they needed me. I have been to my father's
                        funeral, George; not to a circus."
                    "Humph!" said George. "And home for the first time
                        in seven years. You needn't tell me it wasn't the biggest
                        picnic you ever had! And say, about those deeds burning upwasn't
                        that too grand?"
                    
                    "Even if my father burned with them?" she asked.
                        "George, you make me completely disgusted."
                    "Big hypocrite!" he scoffed. "You know
                        you're tickled silly. Why, you will get ten times as much as you
                        would if those deeds hadn't burned. I know what that estate amounts
                        to. I know what that land is worth. I'll see that you get your
                        share to the last penny that can be wrung out of it. You bet I will! Things
                        are coming our way at last. Now we can build the mill, and do everything we
                        planned. I don't know as we will build a mill. With your fifteen
                        thousand we could start a store in Hartley, and do bigger things."
                    "The thing for you to do right now is to hitch up and take Aunt
                        Ollie and your mother home," said Kate. "I'll
                        talk to you after supper and tell you all there is to know. I'm
                        dusty and tired now."
                    "Well, you needn't try to fix up any shenanigan for
                        me," he said. "I know to within five hundred dollars of
                        what your share in that estate is worth, and I'll see that you get
                        it."
                    "No one has even remotely suggested that I shouldn't have
                        my share of that estate," said Kate.
                    While he was gone, Kate thought intently as she went about her work. She saw
                        exactly what her position was, and what she had to do. Their talk would be
                        disagreeable, but the matter had to be gone into and gotten over. She let
                        George talk as he would while she finished supper and they ate. When he went
                        to his evening work, she helped the children scale their fish for breakfast
                        and  as they worked she talked to them,
                        sanely, sensibly, explaining what she could, avoiding what she could not.
                        She put them to bed, her heart almost sickened at what they had been taught
                        and told. Kate was in no very propitious mood for her interview with George.
                        As she sat on the front porch waiting for him, she was wishing with all her
                        heart that she was back home with the children, to remain forever. That, of
                        course, was out of the question, but she wished it. She had been so glad to
                        be with her mother again, to be of service, to hear a word of approval now
                        and then. She must be worthy of her mother's opinion, she thought,
                        just as George stepped on the porch, sat on the top step, leaned against a
                        pillar, and said: "Now go on, tell me all about it."
                    Kate thought intently a second. Instead of beginning with leaving Friday
                        morning: "I was at the Court House in Hartley this
                        morning," she said.
                    "You needn't have done that," he scoffed.
                        "I spent most of the day there Monday. You bet folks shelled out
                        the books when I told them who I was, and what I was after. I must say you
                        folks have some little reason to be high and mighty. You sure have got the
                        dough. No wonder the old man hung on to his deeds himself. He
                        wasn't so far from a King, all right, all
                        right."
                    "You mean you left your work Monday, and went to the Court House in
                        Hartley and told who you were, and spent the day nosing into my
                        father's affairs, before his sons had done
                        anything, or you had any idea what was to be
                        done?" she demanded.
                    
                    "Oh, you needn't get high and mighty," he said.
                        "I propose to know just where I am, about this. I propose to have
                        just what is coming to meto you, to the last penny, and no Bates man will
                        manage the affair, either."
                    Suddenly Kate leaned forward.
                    "I foresee that you've fixed yourself up for a big
                        disappointment," she said. "My mother and her eldest son
                        will settle my father's estate; and when it is settled I shall have
                        exactly what the other girls have. Then if I still think it is wise, I shall
                        at once go to work building the mill. Everything must be shaved to the last
                        cent, must be done with closest economy, I must come out
                        of this with enough left to provide us a comfortable home."
                    "Do that from the first profits of the mill," he suggested.
                    "I'm no good at 'counting chickens before
                        they're hatched,'" said Kate. "Besides,
                        the first profits from the mill, as you very well know, if you would ever
                        stop to think, must go to pay for logs to work on, and there must always be
                        a good balance for that purpose. No. I reserve enough from my money to fix
                        the home I want; but I shall wait to do it until the mill is working, so I
                        can give all my attention to it, while you are out looking up
                        timber."
                    "Of course I can do all of it perfectly
                        well," he said. "And it's a man's business. You'll make me look like fifty
                        cents if you get out among men and go to doing a thing no woman in this part
                        of the country ever did. Why, it will look like you didn't trust me!"
                    
                    "I can't help how it will look," said Kate.
                        "This is my last and only dollar; if I lose it, I am out for life;
                        I shall take no risk. I've no confidence in your business ability,
                        and you know it. It need not hurt your pride a particle to say that we are
                        partners; that I'm going to build the mill, while you're
                        going to bring in the timber. It's the only way I shall touch the
                        proposition. I will give you two hundred dollars for the deed and abstract
                        of the ravine. I'll give your mother eight hundred for the lot and
                        house, which is two hundred more than it is worth. I'll lay away
                        enough to rebuild and refurnish it, and with the remainder I'll
                        build the dam, bridge, and mill, just as quickly as it can be done. As soon
                        as I get my money, we'll buy timber for the mill and get it sawed
                        and dried this winter. We can be all done and running by next
                        June."
                    "Kate, how are you going to get all that land sold, and the money in
                        hand to divide up that quickly? I don't think it ever can be done.
                        Land is always sold on time, you know," he said.
                    Kate drew a deep breath. "This land isn't
                        going to be sold," she said. "Most of the boys have owned
                        their farms long enough to have enabled them to buy other land, and put
                        money in the bank. They're going to form a pool, and put in enough
                        money to pay the girls the share they have agreed to take; even if they have
                        to borrow it, as some of the younger ones will; but the older ones will help
                        them; so the girls are to have their money in cash, in three months. I was
                        mighty glad of  the arrangement for my part,
                        because we can begin at once on our plans for the mill."
                    "And how much do the girls get?" he asked darkly.
                    "Can't say just yet," said Kate. "The
                        notes and mortgages have to be gone over, and the thing figured out; it will
                        take some time. Mother and Adam began yesterday; we shall know in a few
                        weeks."
                    "Sounds to me like a cold-blooded Bates steal," he cried.
                        "Who figured out what was a fair share for the
                        girls; who planned that arrangement? Why didn't you insist on the
                        thing going through court; the land being sold, and equal division of all
                        the proceeds?"
                    "Now if you'll agree not to say a word until I finish,
                        I'll show you the figures," said Kate.
                        "I'll tell you what the plan is, and why it was made, and
                        I'll tell you further that it is already recorded, and in action.
                        There are no minor heirs. We could make an agreement and record it. There
                        was no will. Mother will administer. It's all settled. Wait until I
                        get the figures."
                    Then slowly and clearly she went over the situation, explaining everything in
                        detail. When she finished he sat staring at her with a snarling face.
                    "You signed that?" he demanded. "You signed that!
                            You threw away at least half you might have had! You
                        let those lazy scoundrels of brothers of yours hoodwink you, and pull the
                        wool over your eyes like that? Are you mad? Are you stark, staring
                        mad?"
                    "No, I'm quite sane," said Kate. "It is
                        you who are mad. You know my figures, don't you? Those were the  only ones used yesterday. The whole scheme
                        was mine, with help from Mother to the extent of her giving up everything
                        except the home farm."
                    "You crazy fool!" he cried, springing up.
                    "Now stop," said Kate. "Stop right there!
                        I've done what I think is right, and fair, and just, and
                        I'm happy with the results. Act decently, I'll stay and
                        build the mill. Say one, only one more of the nasty, insulting things in
                        your head, and I'll go in there and wake up the children and we
                        will leave now and on foot."
                    Confronted with Kate and her ultimatum, George arose and walked down to the
                        road; he began pacing back and forth in the moonlight, struggling to regain
                        command of himself. He had no money. He had no prospect of any until Aunt
                        Ollie died and left him her farm. He was, as he expressed it, "up
                        against it" there. Now he was "up against it"
                        with Kate. What she decided upon and proposed to do was all he could do. She
                        might shave prices, and cut, and skimp, and haggle to buy material, and put
                        up her building at the least possible expense. She might sit over books and
                        figure herself blind. He would be driving over the country, visiting with
                        the farmers, booming himself for a fat county office maybe, eating big
                        dinners, and being a jolly good fellow generally. Naturally as breathing,
                        there came to him a scheme whereby he could buy at the very lowest figure he
                        could extract; then he would raise the price to Kate enough to make him a
                        comfortable income besides his share of the business. He had not walked the
                        road long until his anger was all gone.
                    
                    He began planning the kind of horse he would have to drive, the buggy he
                        would want, and a box in it to carry a hatchet, a square, measures, an
                        augur, other tools he would need, and by Jove! it would be a dandy idea to
                        carry a bottle of the real thing. Many a farmer, for a good cigar and a few
                        swallows of the right thing, would warm up and sign such a contract as could
                        be got in no other manner; while he would need it on cold days himself.
                        George stopped in the moonlight to slap his leg and laugh over the happy
                        thought. "By George, Georgie, my boy," he said,
                        "most days will be cold, won't they?"
                    He had no word to say to Kate of his change of feeling in the matter. He did
                        not want to miss the chance of twitting her at every opportunity he could
                        invent with having thrown away half her inheritance; but he was glad the
                        whole thing was settled so quickly and easily. He was now busy planning how
                        he would spend the money Kate agreed to pay him for the ravine; but that was
                        another rosy cloud she soon changed in colour, for she told him if he was
                        going to be a partner he could put in what money he had, as his time was no
                        more valuable than she could make hers teaching school againin other words,
                        he could buy his horse and buggy with the price she paid for the location,
                        so he was forced to agree. He was forced to do a great many things in the
                        following months that he hated; but he had to do them or be left out of the
                        proposition altogether.
                    Mrs. Bates and Adam administered the Bates estate promptly and efficiently.
                        The girls had their money on  time, the boys
                        adjusted themselves as their circumstances admitted. Mrs. Bates had to make
                        so many trips to town, before the last paper was signed, and the last
                        transfer was made, that she felt she could not go any farther, so she did
                        not. Nancy Ellen had reached the point where she would stop and talk a few
                        minutes to Kate, if she met her on the streets of Hartley, as she frequently
                        did now; but she would not ask her to come home with her, because she would
                        not bring herself in contract with George Holt. The day Kate went to Hartley
                        to receive and deposit her check, and start her bank account, her mother
                        asked her if she had any plans as to what she would do with her money. Kate
                        told her in detail. Mrs. Bates listened with grim face: "You better
                        leave it in the bank," she said, "and use the interest to
                        help you live, or put it in good farm mortgages, where you can easily get
                        ten per cent."
                    Kate explained again and told how she was doing all the buying, how she would
                        pay all bills, and keep the books. It was no use. Mrs. Bates sternly
                        insisted that she should do no such thing. In some way she would be
                        defrauded. In some way she would lose the money. What she was proposing was
                        a man's work. Kate had most of her contracts signed and much
                        material ordered, she could not stop. Sadly she saw her mother turn from
                        her, declaring as she went that Kate would lose every cent she had, and when
                        she did she need not come hanging around her. She had been warned. If she
                        lost, she could take the consequences. For an instant Kate felt  that she could not endure it then she sprang
                        after her mother.
                    "Oh, but I won't lose!" she cried.
                        "I'm keeping my money in my own hands. I'm
                        spending it myself. Please, Mother, come and see the location, and let me
                        show you everything."
                    "Too late now," said Mrs. Bates grimly, "the thing
                        is done. The time to have told me was before you made any contracts.
                        You're always taking the bit in your teeth and going ahead. Well,
                        go! But remember, 'as you make your bed, so you can
                        lie.'"
                    "All right," said Kate, trying to force a laugh.
                        "Don't you worry. Next time you get into a tight place and
                        want to borrow a few hundreds, come to me."
                    Mrs. Bates laughed derisively. Kate turned away with a faint sickness in her
                        heart and when half an hour later she met Nancy Ellen, fresh from an
                        interview with her mother, she felt no betterfar worse, in factfor Nancy
                        Ellen certainly could say what was in her mind with free and forceful
                        directness. With deft tongue and nimble brain, she embroidered all Mrs.
                        Bates had said, and prophesied more evil luck in three minutes than her
                        mother could have thought of in a year. Kate left them with no promise of
                        seeing either of them again, except by accident, her heart and brain filled
                        with misgivings. "Must I always have 'a fly in my
                        ointment'?" she wailed to herself. "I thought
                        this morning this would be the happiest day of my life. I felt as if I were
                        flying. Ye Gods, but wings were never meant for me. Every time  I take them, down I come kerflop, mostly in a
                        'gulf of dark despair,' as the hymn book says. Anyway,
                        I'll keep my promise and give the youngsters a treat."
                    So she bought each of them an orange, some candy, and goods for a new Sunday
                        outfit and comfortable school clothing. Then she took the hack for Walden,
                        feeling in a degree as she had the day she married George Holt. As she
                        passed the ravine and again studied the location her spirits arose. It was a good scheme. It would work. She would work it. She
                        would sell from the yards to Walden and the surrounding country. She would
                        see the dealers in Hartley and talk the business over, so she would know she
                        was not being cheated in freight rates when she came to shipping. She
                        stopped at Mrs. Holt's, laid a deed before her for her signature,
                        and offered her a check for eight hundred for the Holt house and lot, which
                        Mrs. Holt eagerly accepted. They arranged to move immediately, as the
                        children were missing school. She had a deed with her for the ravine, which
                        George signed in Walden, and both documents were acknowledged; but she would
                        not give him the money until he had the horse and buggy he was to use, at
                        the gate, in the spring.
                    He wanted to start out buying at once, but that was going too far in the
                        future for Kate. While the stream was low and the banks firm, Kate built her
                        dam, so that it would be ready for spring, put in the abutments, and built
                        the bridge. It was not a large dam, and not a big bridge, but both were
                        solid, well constructed, and would serve every purpose. Then Kate set men
                        hauling stone  for the corner foundations. She
                        hoped to work up such a trade and buy so much and so wisely in the summer
                        that she could run all winter, so she was building a real mill in the Bates
                        way, which way included letting the foundations freeze and settle over
                        winter. That really was an interesting and a comfortable winter.
                    Kate and George both watched the children's studies at night, worked
                        their plans finer in the daytime, and lived as cheaply and carefully as they
                        could. Everything was going well. George was doing his best to promote the
                        mill plan, to keep Kate satisfied at home, to steal out after she slept, and
                        keep himself satisfied in appetite, and some ready money in his pockets, won
                        at games of chance, at which he was an expert, and at cards, which he
                        handled like a master.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    "AS A MAN
                            SOWETH"
                    
                        AT THE
                         earliest possible moment in the spring, the building of the mill
                        began. It was scarcely well under way when work was stopped by a week of
                        heavy rains. The water filled the ravine to dangerous height and the roaring
                        of the dam could be heard all over town. George talked of it incessantly. He
                        said it was the sweetest music his ears had ever heard. Kate had to confess
                        that she liked the sound herself, but she was fearful over saying much on
                        the subject because she was so very anxious about the stability of the dam.
                        There was a day or two of fine weather; then the rains began again. Kate
                        said she had all the music she desired; she proposed to be safe; so she went
                        and opened the sluiceway to reduce the pressure on the dam. The result was
                        almost immediate. The water gushed through, lowering the current and
                        lessening the fall. George grumbled all day, threatening half a dozen times
                        to shut the sluice; but Kate and the carpenter were against him, so he
                        waited until he came slipping home after midnight, his brain in a muddle
                        from drink, smoke, and cards. As he neared the dam, he decided that the
                        reason he felt so badly was because he had missed hearing it all day, but he
                        would  have it to go to sleep by. So he
                        crossed the bridge and shut the sluice gate. Even as he was doing it the
                        thunder pealed; lightning flashed, and high Heaven gave him warning that he
                        was doing a dangerous thing; but all his life he had done what he pleased;
                        there was no probability that he would change then. He needed the roar of
                        the dam to quiet his nerves.
                    The same roar that put him to sleep, awakened Kate. She lay wondering at it
                        and fearing. She raised her window to listen. The rain was falling in
                        torrents, while the roar was awful, so much worse than it had been when she
                        fell asleep, that she had a suspicion of what might have caused it. She went
                        to George's room and shook him awake.
                    "Listen to the dam!" she cried. "It will go, as
                        sure as fate. George, did you, Oh, did you, close the sluice-gate when you
                        came home?"
                    He was half asleep, and too defiant from drink to take his usual course.
                    "Sure!" he said. "Sweesish mushich ever hearsh.
                        Push me shleep."
                    He fell back on the pillow and went on sleeping. Kate tried again to waken
                        him, but he struck at her savagely. She ran to her room, hurried into a few
                        clothes, and getting the lantern, started toward the bridge. At the gate she
                        stepped into water. As far as she could see above the dam the street was
                        covered. She waded to the bridge, which was under at each end but still bare
                        in the middle, where it was slightly higher. Kate crossed it  and started down the yard toward the dam. The
                        earth was softer there, and she mired in places almost to her knees. At the
                        dam, the water was tearing around each end in a mad race, carrying earth and
                        everything before it. The mill side was lower than the street. The current
                        was so broad and deep she could not see where the sluice was. She hesitated
                        a second to try to locate it from the mill behind her; and in that instant
                        there was a crack and a roar, a mighty rush that swept her from her feet and
                        washed away the lantern. Nothing saved her but the trees on the bank. She
                        struck one, clung to it, pulled herself higher, and in the blackness gripped
                        the tree, while she heard the dam going gradually after the first break.
                    There was no use to scream, no one could have heard her. The storm raved on;
                        Kate clung to her tree, with each flash of lightning trying to see the dam.
                        At last she saw that it was not all gone. She was not much concerned about
                        herself. She knew the tree would hold. Eagerly she strained her eyes toward
                        the dam. She could feel the water dropping lower, while the roar subsided to
                        a wild rush, and with flashes of lightning she could see what she thought
                        was at least half of the dam holding firmly. By that time Kate began to
                        chill. She wrapped her arms around the tree, and pressing her cheek against
                        the rough bark, she cried as hard as she could and did not care. God would
                        not hear; the neighbours could not. She shook and cried until she was worn
                        out. By that time the water was only a muddy flow  around her ankles; if she had a light she could wads back to
                        the bridge and reach home. But if she missed the bridge and went into the
                        ravine, the current would be too strong for her. She held with one arm and
                        tried to wipe her face with the other hand. "What a fool to
                        cry!" she said. "As if there were any more water needed
                        here!"
                    Then she saw a light in the house, and the figures of the children, carrying
                        it from room to room, so she knew that one of them had awakened for a drink,
                        or with the storm, and they had missed her. Then she could see them at the
                        front door, Adam's sturdy feet planted widely apart, bracing him,
                        as he held up the lamp which flickered in the wind. Then she could hear his
                        voice shouting: "Mother!" Instantly Kate answered. Then
                        she was sorry she had, for both of them began to scream wildly. There was a
                        second of that, then even the children realized its futility.
                    "She is out there in the water, we got to get
                        her," said Adam. "We got to do it!"
                    He started with the light held high. The wind blew it out. They had to go
                        back to relight it. Kate knew they would burn their fingers, and she prayed
                        they would not set the house on fire. When the light showed again, at the
                        top of her lungs she screamed: "Adam, set the broom on fire and
                        carry it to the end of the bridge; the water isn't deep enough to
                        hurt you." She tried twice, then she saw him give Polly the lamp,
                        and run down the hall. He came back in an instant with the broom. Polly  held the lamp high, Adam went down the walk
                        to the gate and started up the sidewalk. "He's using his
                        head," said Kate to the tree. "He's going to wait
                        until he reaches the bridge to start his light, so it will last longer. That is Bates, anyway. Thank
                        God!"
                    Adam scratched several matches before he got the broom well ignited, then he
                        held it high, and by its light found the end of the bridge. Kate called to
                        him to stop and plunging and splashing through mud and water, she reached
                        the bridge before the broom burned out. There she clung to the railing she
                        had insisted upon, and felt her way across to the boy. His thin cotton night
                        shirt was plastered to his sturdy little body. As she touched him Kate
                        lifted him in her arms, and almost hugged the life from him.
                    "You big man!" she said. "You could help Mother!
                        Good for you!"
                    "Is the dam gone?" he asked.
                    "Part of it," said Kate, sliding her feet before her, as
                        she waded toward Polly in the doorway.
                    "Did Father shut the sluice-gate, to hear the roar?"
                    Kate hesitated. The shivering body in her arms felt so small to her.
                    "I 'spect he did," said Adam. "All day he
                        was fussing after you stopped the roar." Then he added casually:
                        "The old fool ought-a known better. I 'spect he was drunk
                        again!"
                    "Oh, Adam!" cried Kate, setting him on the porch.
                        "Oh, Adam! What makes you say that?"
                    
                    "Oh, all of them at school say that," scoffed Adam.
                        "Everybody knows it but you, don't they, Polly?"
                    "Sure!" said Polly. "Most every night; but
                        don't you mind, Mother, Adam and I will take care of you."
                    Kate fell on her knees and gathered both of them in a crushing hug for an
                        instant; then she helped them into dry nightgowns and to bed. As she covered
                        them she stooped and kissed each of them before she went to warm and put on
                        dry clothes, and dry her hair. It was almost dawn when she walked to George
                        Holt's door and looked in at him lying stretched in deep sleep.
                    "You may thank your God for your children," she said.
                        "If it hadn't been for them, I know what I would have done
                        to you."
                    Then she went to her room and lay down to rest until dawn. She was up at the
                        usual time and had breakfast ready for the children. As they were starting
                        to school George came into the room.
                    "Mother," said Polly, "there is a lot of folks
                        over around the dam. What shall we tell them?"
                    Kate's heart stopped. She had heard that question before.
                    "Tell them the truth," said Adam scornfully, before Kate
                        could answer. "Tell them that Mother opened the sluiceway to save
                        the dam and Father shut it to hear it roar, and it busted!"
                    "Shall I, Mother?" asked Polly.
                    A slow whiteness spread over George's face; he started down the hall
                        to look.
                    
                    "Tell them exactly what you please," said Kate,
                        "only you watch yourself like a hawk. If you tell one word not the
                        way it was, or in any way different from what happened, I'll punish
                        you severely."
                    "May I tell them I held the lamp while Adam got you out of the
                        water?" asked Polly. "That would be true, you
                        know."
                    George turned to listen, his face still whiter.
                    "Yes, that would be true," said Kate, "but if you
                        tell them that, the first thing they will ask will be 'where was
                        your father?' What will you say then?"
                    "Why, we'll say that he was so drunk we couldn't
                        wake him up," said Polly conclusively. "We pulled him,
                        an' we shook him, an' we yelled at him. Didn't
                        we, Adam?"
                    "I was not drunk!" shouted George.
                    "Oh, yes, you were," said Adam. "You smelled all
                        sour, like it does at the saloon door!"
                    George made a rush at Adam. The boy spread his feet and put up his hands, but
                        never flinched or moved. Kate looking on felt something in her heart that
                        never had been there before. She caught George's arm, as he reached
                        the child.
                    "You go on to school, little folks," she said.
                        "And for Mother's sake try not to talk at all. If people
                        question you, tell them to ask Mother. I'd be so proud of you, if
                        you would do that."
                    "I will, if you'll hold me and kiss me
                        again like you did last night when you got out of the water," said
                        Polly.
                    
                    "It is a bargain," said Kate. "How about you,
                        Adam?"
                    "I will for that, too," said Adam,
                        "but I'd like awful well to tell how fast the water went,
                        and how it poured and roared, while I held the light, and you got across.
                        Gee, it was awful, Mother! So black, and so crashy, and so deep.
                        I'd like to tell!"
                    "But you won't if I ask you not
                        to?" queried Kate.
                    "I will not," said Adam.
                    Kate went down on her knees again, she held out her arms and both youngsters
                        rushed to her. After they were gone, she and George Holt looked at each
                        other an instant, then Kate turned to her work. He followed:
                        "Kate" he began.
                    "No use!" said Kate. "If you'll go out
                        and look at the highest water mark, you can easily imagine what I had to
                        face last night when I had to cross the bridge to open the sluice-gate, or
                        the bridge would have gone, too. If the children had not wakened with the
                        storm, and hunted me, I'd have had to stay over there until
                        morning, if I could have clung to the tree that long. First they rescued me;
                        and then they rescued you, if you only but knew it. By
                        using part of the money I had saved for the house, I can rebuild the dam;
                        but I'm done with you. We're partners no longer. Not with
                        business, money, or in any other way, will I ever trust you again. Sit down
                        there and eat your breakfast, and then leave my sight."
                    Instead George put on his old clothing, crossed the bridge, and worked all
                        day with all his might trying to  gather
                        building material out of the water, save dbris from the dam, to clear the
                        village street. At noon he came over and got a drink, and a piece of bread.
                        At night he worked until he could see no longer, and then ate some food from
                        the cupboard, and went to bed. He was up and at work before daybreak in the
                        morning, and for two weeks he kept this up, until he had done much to repair
                        the work of the storm. The dam he almost rebuilt himself, as soon as the
                        water lowered to normal again. Kate knew what he was trying to do, and knew
                        also that in a month he had the village pitying him, and blaming her because
                        he was working himself to death, and she was allowing it.
                    She doggedly went on with her work; the contracts were made; she was forced
                        to. As the work neared completion, her faith in the enterprise grew. She
                        studied by the hour everything she could find pertaining to the business.
                        When the machinery began to arrive, George frequently spoke about having
                        timber ready to begin work on, but he never really believed the thing which
                        did happen, would happen, until the first load of logs slowly crossed the
                        bridge and began unloading in the yards. A few questions elicited from the
                        driver the reply that he had sold the timber to young Adam Bates of Bates
                        Corners, who was out buying right and left and paying cash on condition the
                        seller did his own delivering. George saw the scheme, and that it was good.
                        Also the logs were good, while the price was less than he hoped to pay for
                        such timber. His soul  was filled with
                        bitterness. The mill was his scheme. He had planned it all. Those thieving
                        Bates had stolen his plan, and his location, and his home, and practically
                        separated him from his wife and children. It was his mill, and all he was
                        getting from it was to work with all his might, and not a decent word from
                        morning until night. That day instead of working as before, he sat in the
                        shade most of the time, and that night instead of going to bed he went down
                        town.
                    When the mill was almost finished Kate employed two men who lived in Walden,
                        but had been working in the Hartley mills for years. They were honest men of
                        much experience. Kate made the better of them foreman, and consulted with
                        him in every step of completing the mill, and setting up the machinery. She
                        watched everything with sharp eyes, often making suggestions that were
                        useful about the placing of different parts as a woman would arrange them.
                        Some of these the men laughed at, some they were more than glad to accept.
                        When the engine was set up, the big saw in place, George went to Kate.
                    "See here!" he said roughly. "I know I was wrong
                        about the sluice-gate. I was a fool to shut it with the water that high, but
                        I've learned my lesson; I'll never touch it again;
                        I've worked like a dog for weeks to pay for it; now where do I come
                        in? What's my job, how much is my share of the money, and when do I
                        get it?"
                    "The trouble with you, George, is that you have to learn a new
                        lesson about every thing you attempt. You can't carry a lesson
                        about one thing in your mind, and  apply it to
                        the next thing that comes up. I know you have worked, and I know why. It is
                        fair that you should have something, but I can't say what, just
                        now. Having to rebuild the dam, and with a number of incidentals that have
                        come up, in spite of the best figuring I could do, I have been forced to use
                        my money saved for rebuilding the house; and even with that, I am coming out
                        a hundred or two short. I'm strapped; and until money begins to
                        come in I have none myself. The first must go toward paying the
                        men's wages, the next for timber. If Jim Milton can find work for
                        you, go to work at the mill, and when we get started I'll pay you
                        what is fair and just, you may depend on that. If he hasn't work
                        for you, you'll have to find a job at something else."
                    "Do you mean that?" he asked wonderingly.
                    "I mean it," said Kate.
                    "After stealing my plan, and getting my land for nothing,
                        you'd throw me out entirely?" he demanded.
                    "You entreated me to put all I had into your plan, you told me
                        repeatedly the ravine was worth nothing, you were not even keeping up the
                        taxes on it until I came and urged you to, the dam is used merely for water,
                        the engine furnishes the real power, and if you are thrown out, you have
                        thrown yourself out. You have had every chance."
                    "You are going to keep your nephew on the buying job?" he
                        asked.
                    "I am," said Kate. "You can have no job that will
                        give you a chance to involve me financially."
                    
                    "Then give me Milton's place. It's so easy a baby
                        could do it, and the wages you have promised him are scandalous,"
                        said George.
                    Kate laughed. "Oh, George," she said, "you
                        can't mean that! Of all your hare-brained ideas, that you could
                        operate that saw, is the wildest. Of course you could start the engine, and
                        set the saw runningI could myself; but to regulate its speed, to control it
                        with judgment, you could no more do it than Polly. As for wages, Milton is
                        working for less than he got in Hartley, because he can be at home, and save
                        his hack fare, as you know."
                    George went over to Jim Milton, and after doing all he could see to do and
                        ordering Milton to do several things he thought might be done, he said
                        casually: "Of course I am Boss around this shack,
                        but this is new to me. You fellows will have to tell me what to do until I
                        get my bearings. As soon as we get to running, I'll be yardmaster,
                        and manage the selling and shipping. I'm good at figures, and that
                        would be the best place for me."
                    "You'll have to settle with Mrs. Holt about that,"
                        said Jim Milton.
                    "Of course," said George. "Isn't she a
                        wonder? With my help, we'll soon wipe the Hartley mills off the
                        map, and be selling till Grand Rapids will get her eye peeled. With you to
                        run the machinery, me to manage the sales, and her to keep the books, we got
                        a combination to beat the world."
                    "In the meantime," said Jim Milton dryly, "you  might take that scoop shovel and clean the
                        shavings and blocks off this floor. Leave me some before the engine to start
                        the first fire, and shovel the rest into that bin there where it's
                        handy. It isn't safe to start with so much loose, dry stuff lying
                        around."
                    George went to work with the scoop shovel, but he watched every movement Jim
                        Milton made about the engine and machinery. Often he dropped the shovel and
                        stood studying things out for himself, and asking questions. Not being sure
                        of his position, Jim Milton answered him patiently, and showed him all he
                        wanted to know; but he constantly cautioned him not to touch anything, or
                        try to start the machinery himself, as he might lose control of the gauge
                        and break the saw, or let the power run away with him. George scoffed at the
                        idea of danger and laughed at the simplicity of the engine and machinery.
                        There was little for him to do. He hated to be seen cleaning up the dbris;
                        men who stopped in passing kept telling what a fine fellow young Bates was,
                        what good timber he was sending in. Several of them told George frankly they
                        thought that was to be his job. He was so ashamed of that, he began instant
                        improvisation.
                    "That was the way we first planned things," he said
                        boastfully, "but when it came to working out our plans, we found I
                        would be needed here till I learned the business, and then I'm
                        going on the road. I am going to be the salesman. To travel, dress well, eat
                        well, flirt with the pretty girls, and take big lumber orders will just
                        about suit little old Georgie."
                    
                    "Wonder you remembered to put the orders in at all," said
                        Jim Milton dryly.
                    George glared at him. "Well, just remember whom you take orders
                        from," he said, pompously.
                    "I take them from Mrs. Holt, and nobody else," said Milton,
                        with equal assurance. "And I've yet to hear her say the
                        first word about this wonderful travelling proposition. She thinks she will
                        do well to fill home orders and ship to a couple of factories she already
                        has contracts with. Sure you didn't dream that travelling
                        proposition, George?"
                    At that instant George wished he could slay Jim Milton. All day he brooded
                        and grew sullen and ugly. By noon he quit working and went down town. By
                        supper-time he went home to prove to his wife that he was all right. She
                        happened to be coming across fro the mill, where she had helped Milton lay
                        the first fire under the boiler ready to touch off, and had seen the first
                        log on the set carriage. It had been agreed that she was to come over at
                        opening time in the morning and start the machinery. She was a proud and
                        eager woman when she crossed the bridge and started down the street toward
                        the gate. From the opposite direction came George, so unsteady that he was
                        running into tree boxes, then lifting his hat and apologizing to them for
                        his awkwardness. Kate saw at a glance that he might fall any instant. Her
                        only thought was to help him from the street, to where children would not
                        see him.
                    She went to him and taking his arm started down the  walk with him. He took off his hat to her also, and walked
                        with wavering dignity, setting his steps as if his legs were not long enough
                        to reach the walk, so that each step ended in a decided thump. Kate could
                        see the neighbours watching at their windows, and her own children playing
                        on the roof of the woodshed. When the children saw their parents, they both
                        stopped playing to stare at them. Then suddenly, shrill and high, arose
                        Adam's childish voice: 
                            
                                "Father came home the other night,
                                Tried to blow out the 'lectric light,
                                Blew and blew with all his might,
                                And the blow almost killed Mother."
                            
                        
                    
                    Polly joined him, and they sang and shrilled, and shrieked it; they jumped up
                        and down and laughed and repeated it again and again. Kate guided George to
                        his room and gave him a shove that landed him on his bed. Then to hush the
                        children she called them to supper. They stopped suddenly, as soon as they
                        entered the kitchen door, and sat sorry and ashamed while she went around,
                        her face white, her lips closed, preparing their food. George was asleep.
                        The children ate alone, as she could take no food. Later she cleaned the
                        kitchen, put the children to bed, and sat on the front porch step looking at
                        the mill, wondering, hoping, planning, praying unconsciously. When she went
                        to bed at ten o'clock George was still asleep.
                    
                    He awakened shortly after, burning with heat and thirst. He arose and slipped
                        to the back porch for a drink. Water was such an aggravation, he crossed the
                        yard, went out the back gate, and down the alley. When he came back up the
                        street, he was pompously, maliciously, dangerously drunk. Either less or
                        more would have been better. When he came in sight of the mill, standing new
                        and shining in the moonlight, he was a lord of creation, ready to work
                        creation to his will. He would go over and see if things were all right. But
                        he did not cross the bridge, he went down the side street, and entered the
                        yard at the back. The doors were closed and locked, but there was as yet no
                        latch on the sliding windows above the work bench. He could push them open
                        from the ground. He leaned a board against the side of the mill, set his
                        foot on it, and pulled himself up, so that he could climb on the bench.
                    That much achieved, he looked around him. After a time his eyes grew
                        accustomed to the darkness, so that he could see his way plainly. Muddled
                        half-thoughts began to filter through his brain. He remembered he was
                        abused. He was out of it. He remembered that he was not the buyer for the
                        mill. He remembered how the men had laughed when he had said that he was to
                        be the salesman. He remembered that Milton had said that he was not to touch
                        the machinery. He at once slid from the bench and went to the boiler. He
                        opened the door of the fire-box and saw the kindling laid ready to light, to
                        get up steam. He looked at the big log on the 
                        set carriage. They had planned to start with a splurge in the morning. Kate
                        was to open the throttle that started the machinery. He decided to show them
                        that they were not so smart. He would give them a good surprise by sawing
                        the log. That would be a joke on them to brag about the remainder of his
                        life. He took matches from his pocket and started the fire. It seemed to his
                        fevered imagination that it burned far too slowly. He shoved in more
                        kindling, shavings, ends left from siding. This smothered his fire, so he
                        made trip after trip to the tinder box, piling in armloads of dry,
                        inflammable stuff.
                    Then suddenly the flames leaped up. He slammed shut the door and started
                        toward the saw. He could not make it work. He jammed and pulled everything
                        he could reach. Soon he realized the heat was becoming intense, and turned
                        to the boiler to see that the fire-box was red hot almost all over, white
                        hot in places.
                    "My God!" he muttered. "Too hot! Got to cool that
                        down."
                    Then he saw the tank and the dangling hose, and remembered that he had not
                        filled the boiler. Taking down the hose, he opened the watercock, stuck in
                        the nozzle, and turned on the water full force. Windows were broken across
                        the street. Parts of the fire-box, boiler, and fire flew everywhere. The
                        walls blew out, the roof lifted and came down, the fire raged among the new,
                        dry timbers of the mill.
                    When her windows blew in, Kate was thrown from her bed to the floor. She lay
                        stunned a second, then dragged  herself up to
                        look across the street. There was nothing where the low white expanse of
                        roof had spread an hour before, while a red glare was creeping everywhere
                        over the ground. She ran to George's room and found it empty. She
                        ran to the kitchen, calling him, and found the back door standing open. She
                        rushed back to her room and began trying to put on her dress over her
                        nightrobe. She could not control her shaking fingers, while at each step she
                        cut her feet on broken glass. She reached the front door as the children
                        came screaming with fright. In turning to warn them about the glass she
                        stumbled on the top step, pitched forward headlong, then lay still. The
                        neighbours carried her back to her bed, called the doctor, and then saved
                        all the logs in the yard they could. The following day, when the fire had
                        burned itself out, the undertaker hunted assiduously, but nothing could be
                        found to justify a funeral.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    "FOR A GOOD
                            GIRL"
                    
                        FOR a week, Kate lay so dazed she did not care whether she
                        lived or died; then she slowly crept back to life, realizing that whether
                        she cared or not, she must live. She was too young, too strong, to quit
                        because she was soul sick; she had to go on. She had life to face for
                        herself and her children. She wondered dully about her people, but as none
                        of the neighbours who had taken care of her said anything concerning them,
                        she realized that they had not been there. At first she was almost glad.
                        They were forthright people. They would have had something to say; they
                        would have said it tersely and to the point.
                    Adam, 3d, had wound up her affairs speedily by selling the logs he had bought
                        for her to the Hartley mills, paying what she owed, and depositing the
                        remainder in the Hartley Bank to her credit; but that remainder was less
                        than one hundred dollars. That winter was a long, dreadful nightmare to
                        Kate. Had it not been for Aunt Ollie, they would have been hungry some of
                        the time; they were cold most of it. For weeks Kate thought of sending for
                        her mother, or going to her; then as not even a line came from any of her
                        family, she realized  that they resented her
                        losing that much Bates money so bitterly that they wished to have nothing to
                        do with her. Often she sat for hours staring straight before her, trying to
                        straighten out the tangle she had made of her life. As if she had not
                        suffered enough in the reality of living, she now lived over in day and
                        night dreams, hour by hour, her time with George Holt, and gained nothing
                        thereby.
                    All winter Kate brooded, barely managing to keep alive, and the children in
                        school. As spring opened, she shook herself, arose, and went to work. It was
                        not planned, systematic, effective, Bates work. Piecemeal she did anything
                        she saw needed the doing. The children helped to make garden and clean the
                        yard. Then all of them went out to Aunt Ollie's and made a contract
                        to plant and raise potatoes and vegetables on shares. They passed a
                        neglected garden on the way, and learning that the woman of the house was
                        ill, and the man rushed with getting his crops in, Kate stopped and offered
                        to tend it for enough cords of windfall wood to pay her a fair price, this
                        to be delivered in mid-summer.
                    With food and fire assured, Kate ripped up some of George's
                        clothing, washed, pressed, turned, and made Adam warm clothes for school.
                        She even achieved a dress for Polly by making a front and back from a pair
                        of her father's trouser legs, and setting in side pieces, a yoke
                        and sleeves from one of her old skirts. George's underclothing she
                        cut down for both of the children;  then drew
                        another check for taxes and second-hand books. While she was in Hartley in
                        the fall paying taxes, she stopped at a dry goods store for thread, and
                        heard a customer asking for knitted mittens, which were not in the stock.
                        After he had gone, she arranged with the merchant for a supply of yarn which
                        she carried home and began to knit into mittens such as had been called for.
                        She used every minute of leisure during the day, she worked hours into the
                        night, and soon small sums began coming her way. When she had a supply of
                        teamster's heavy mittens, she began on fancy coloured ones for
                        babies and children, sometimes crocheting, sometimes using needles. Soon she
                        started both children on the rougher work with her. They were glad to help
                        for they had a lively remembrance of one winter of cold and hunger, with no
                        Christmas. That there were many things she might have done that would have
                        made more money with less exertion Kate never seemed to realize. She did the
                        obvious thing. Her brain power seemed to be on a level with that of Adam and
                        Polly.
                    When the children began to carry home Christmas talk, Kate opened her mouth
                        to say the things that had beer, said to her as a child; then tightly closed
                        it. She began getting up earlier, sitting up later, knitting feverishly.
                        Luckily the merchant could sell all she could furnish. As the time drew
                        nearer, she gathered from the talk of the children what was the deepest
                        desire of their hearts. One day a heavy wind driving ice-coated trees in the
                        back yard broke quite a large limb from a cherry tree.  Kate dragged it into the woodhouse to make firewood. She
                        leaned it against the wall to wait until the ice melted, and as it stood
                        there in its silvery coat, she thought how like a small tree the branch was
                        shaped, and how pretty it looked. After the children had gone to school the
                        next day she shaped it with the hatchet and saw, and fastened it in a small
                        box. This she carried to her bedroom and locked the door. She had not much
                        idea what she was going to do, but she kept thinking. Soon she found enough
                        time to wrap every branch carefully with the red tissue paper her red
                        knitting wool came in, and to cover the box smoothly. Then she thought of
                        the country Christmas trees she had seen decorated with popcorn and
                        cranberries. She popped the corn at night and the following day made a trip
                        up the ravine, where she gathered all the bittersweet berries, swamp holly,
                        and wild rose seed heads she could find. She strung the corn on fine cotton
                        cord putting a rose seed pod between each grain, then used the bittersweet
                        berries to terminate the blunt ends of branches, and climb up the trunk. By
                        the time she had finished this she was really interested. She achieved a
                        gold star for the top from a box lid and a piece of gilt paper Polly had
                        carried home from school. With yarn ends and mosquito netting, she whipped
                        up a few little mittens, stockings, and bags. She cracked nuts from their
                        fall store and melting a little sugar stirred in the kernels until they were
                        covered with a sweet, white glaze. Then she made some hard candy, and some
                        fancy cookies with a few sticks of striped candy cut in circles and dotted
                        on  the top. She polished red, yellow, and
                        green apples and set them under the tree.
                    When she made her final trip to Hartley before Christmas the spirit of the
                        day was in the air. She breathed so much of it that she paid a dollar and a
                        half for a stout sled and ten cents for a dozen little red candles, five
                        each for two oranges, and fifteen each for two pretty little books, then
                        after long hesitation added a doll for Polly. She felt that she should not
                        have done this, and said so, to herself; but knew if she had it to do over,
                        she would do the same thing again. She shook her shoulders and took the
                        first step toward regaining her old self-confidence.
                    "Pshaw! Big and strong as I am, and Adam getting such a great boy,
                        we can make it," she said. Then she hurried to the hack and was
                        driven home barely in time to rush her bundles into her room before school
                        was out. She could scarcely wait until the children were in bed to open the
                        parcels. The doll had to be dressed, but Kate was interested in Christmas by
                        that time, and so contemplated the spider-waisted image with real affection.
                        She never had owned a doll herself. She let the knitting go that night, and
                        cut up an old waist to make white underclothing with touches of lace, and a
                        pretty dress. Then Kate went to her room, tied the doll in a safe place on
                        the tree, put on the books, and set the candles with pins. As she worked she
                        kept biting her lips, but when it was all finished she thought it was
                        lovely, and so it was. As she set the sled in front of the tree she said:
                        "There, little folks, I wonder what you will think of that!
                        It's the best  I can do.
                        I've a nice chicken to roast; now if only, if only Mother or Nancy
                        Ellen would come, or write a line, or merely send one word by Tilly
                        Nepple."
                    Suddenly Kate lay down on the bed, buried her face in the pillow while her
                        shoulders jerked and shook in dry sobs for a long time. At last she arose,
                        went to the kitchen, bathed her face, and banked the fires. "I
                        suppose it is the Bates way," she said, "but it's
                        a cold, hard proposition. I know what's the matter with all of
                        them. They are afraid to come near me, or show the slightest friendliness,
                        for fear I'll ask them to help support us. They needn't
                        worry, we can take care of ourselves."
                    She set her tree on the living room table, arranged everything to the best
                        advantage, laid a fire in the stove, and went to sleep Christmas eve,
                        feeling more like herself than she had since the explosion. Christmas
                        morning she had the house warm and the tree ready to light while the
                        children dressed. She slipped away their every-day clothing and laid out
                        their best instead. She could hear them talking as they dressed, and knew
                        the change of clothing had filled them with hope. She hastily lighted the
                        tree, and was setting the table as they entered the dining room.
                    "Merry Christmas, little people," she cried in a voice they
                        had not heard in a long time. They both rushed to her and Kate's
                        heart stood still as they each hugged her tight, kissed her, and offered a
                        tiny packet. From the size and feeling of these, she realized that they were
                             giving her the candy they had received
                        the day before at school. Surprises were coming thick and fast with Kate.
                        That one shook her to her foundations. They loved candy. They had so little!
                        They had nothing else to give. She held them an instant so tightly they were
                        surprised at her, then she told them to lay the packages on the living room
                        table until after breakfast. Polly opened the door, and screamed. Adam ran,
                        and then both of them stood silently before the brave little tree, flaming
                        red, touched with white, its gold star shining. They looked at it, and then
                        at each other, while Kate, watching at an angle across the dining room,
                        distinctly heard Polly say in an awed tone: "Adam, hadn't
                        we better pray?"
                    Kate lifted herself full height, and drew a deep breath. "Well, I
                        guess I manage a little Christmas after this," she said,
                        "and maybe a Fourth of July, and a birthday, and a few other
                        things. I needn't be such a coward. I believe I can make
                        it."
                    From that hour she began trying to think of something she could do that would
                        bring returns more nearly commensurate with the time and strength she was
                        spending. She felt tied to Walden because she owned the house, and could
                        rely on working on shares with Aunt Ollie for winter food; but there was
                        nothing she could do there and take care of the children that would bring
                        more than the most meagre living. Still they were living, each year more
                        comfortably; the children were growing bigger and stronger; soon they could
                        help at something, if only she could think what. The time flew, each day a
                        repetition  of yesterday's dogged,
                        soul-tiring grind, until some days Kate was close to despair. Each day the
                        house grew shabbier; things wore out and could not be replaced; poverty
                        showed itself more plainly. So three more years of life in Walden passed,
                        setting their indelible mark on Kate. Time and again she almost broke the
                        spell that bound her, but she never quite reached the place where her
                        thought cleared, her heart regained its courage, her soul dared take wing
                        and try another flight. When she thought of it, "I don't
                        so much mind the falling," said Kate to herself; "but I do
                        seem to select the hardest spots to light on."
                    Kate sat on the back steps, the sun shone, her nearest neighbour was spading
                        an onion bed. She knew that presently she would get out the rake and spade
                        and begin another year's work; but at that minute she felt too
                        hopeless to move. Adam came and sat on the step beside her. She looked at
                        him and was surprised at his size and apparent strength. Someway he gave her
                        hope. He was a good boy, he had never done a mean, sneaking thing that she
                        knew of. He was natural, normal, mischievous; but he had not an underhand
                        inclination that she could discover. He would make a fine-looking, big man,
                        quite as fine as any of the Bates men; even Adam, 3d, was no handsomer than
                        the fourth Adam would be. Hope arose in her with the cool air of spring on
                        her cheek and its wine in her nostrils. Then out of the clear sky she said
                        it: "Adam, how long are we going to stay in the beggar
                        class?"
                    
                    Adam jumped, and turned surprised eyes toward her. Kate was forced to justify
                        herself.
                    "Of course we give Aunt Ollie half we raise," she said,
                        "but anybody would do that. We work hard, and we live little if any
                        better than Jasons, who have the County Trustee in three times a winter.
                        I'm big and strong, you're almost a man, why
                        don't we do something? Why don't we have
                        some decent clothes, some money for our work and"Kate spoke at
                        random"a horse and carriage?"
                    "'A horse and carriage?'" repeated Adam,
                        staring at her.
                    "Why not?" said Kate, casually.
                    "But how?" cried the amazed boy.
                    "Why, earn the money, and buy it!" said Kate, impatiently.
                        "I'm about fed up on earning cabbage, and potatoes, and
                        skirmishing for wood. I'd prefer to have a dollar in my pocket, and
                            buy what we need. Can't you use your brains
                        and help me figure out a way to earn some money?"
                    "I meant to pretty soon now, but I thought I had to go to school a
                        few years yet," he said.
                    "Of course you do," said Kate. "I must earn the
                        money, but can't you help me think how?"
                    "Sure," said Adam, sitting straight and seeming thoughtful,
                        "but give me a little time. What would youcould you, do?"
                    "I taught before I was married," said Kate; "but
                        methods of teaching change so I'd have to have a Normal term to
                        qualify for even this school. I could put you and  Polly with Aunt Ollie this summer; but I wouldn't,
                        not if we must freeze and starve together"
                    "Because of Grandma?" asked the boy. Kate nodded.
                    "I borrowed money to go once, I could again; but I have been away
                        from teaching so long, and I don't know what to do with you
                        children. The thing I would like would be to find a piece
                        of land somewhere, with a house, any kind of one on it, and take it to rent.
                        Land is about all I really know. Working for money would be of some
                        interest. I am so dead tired working for potatoes. Sometimes I see them
                        flying around in the air at night."
                    "Do you know of any place you would like?" asked Adam.
                    "No, I don't," said Kate, "but I am going
                        to begin asking and I'm going to keep my eyes open. I heard
                        yesterday that Dr. James intends to build a new house. This house is
                        nothing, but the lot is in the prettiest place in town. Let's sell
                        it to him, and take the money, and buy us some new furniture and a cow, and
                        a team, and wagon, and a buggy, and go on a piece of land, and live like
                        other people. Seems to me I'll die if I have to work for potatoes
                        any longer. I'm heart sick of them. Don't say a word to
                        anybody, but Oh, Adam, think! Think hard! Can't you just help me think?"
                    "You are sure you want land?" asked the boy.
                    "It is all I know," said Kate. "How do you feel
                        about it?"
                    "I want horses, and cows, and pigslots of pigsand sheep, and lots of
                        white hens," said Adam, promptly
                    
                    "Get the spade and spade the onion bed until I think," said
                        Kate. "And that reminds me, we didn't divide the sets last
                        fall. Somebody will have to go after them."
                    "I'll go," said Adam, "but it's
                        awful early. It'll snow again. Let me go after school Friday and
                        stay over night. I'd like to go and stay over night with Aunt
                        Ollie. Grandma can't say anything to me that I'll listen
                        to. You keep Polly, and let me go alone. Sure I can."
                    "All right," said Kate. "Spade the bed, and let it
                        warm a day. It will be good for it. But don't tell Polly
                        you're going, or she'll want to go along."
                    Until Friday night, Kate and Adam went around in such a daze of deep thought
                        that they stumbled, and ran against each other; then came back to their
                        affairs suddenly, looking at each other and smiling understandingly. After
                        one of these encounters Kate said to the boy: "You may not arrive
                        at anything, Adam, but I certainly can't complain that you are not
                        thinking."
                    Adam grinned: "I'm not so sure that I haven't got
                        it," he said.
                    "Tell me quick, and let me think, too," said Kate.
                    "But I can't tell you yet," said Adam. "I
                        have to find out something first."
                    Friday evening he wanted to put off his trip until Saturday morning, so Kate
                        agreed. She was surprised when he bathed and put on his clean shirt and
                        trousers, but said not a word. She had made some study of child psychology,
                        she thought making the trip alone was of so much importance to Adam that he
                        was dressing for  the occasion. She foresaw
                        extra washing, yet she said nothing to stop the lad. She waved good-bye to
                        him, thinking how sturdy and good looking he was, as he ran out of the front
                        door. Kate was beginning to be worried when Adam had not returned toward
                        dusk Sunday evening, while Polly was cross and fretful. Finally they saw him
                        coming down the ravine bank, carrying his small bundle of sets. Kate felt a
                        glow of relief; Polly ran to meet him. Kate watched as they met and saw Adam
                        take Polly's hand.
                    "If only they looked as much alike as some twins do, I'd be
                        thankful," said Kate.
                    Adam delivered the sets, said Aunt Ollie and Grandma were all right, that it
                        was an awful long walk, and he was tired. Kate noticed that his feet were
                        dust covered, but his clothes were so clean she said to him: "You
                        didn't fish much."
                    "I didn't fish any," said Adam, "not like
                        I always fish," he added.
                    "Have any time to think?" asked Kate.
                    "You just bet I did," said the boy. "I
                        didn't waste a minute."
                    "Neither did I," said Kate. "I know exactly what
                        the prettiest lot in town can be sold for."
                    "Good!" cried Adam. "Fine!"
                    Monday Kate wanted to get up early and stick the sets, but Adam insisted that
                        Aunt Ollie said the sign would not be right until Wednesday. If they were
                        stuck Monday or Tuesday, they would all grow to top.
                    
                    "My goodness! I knew that," said Kate. "I am
                        thinking so hard I'm losing what little sense I had; but anyway,
                        mere thinking is doing me a world of good. I am beginning to feel a kind of
                        rising joy inside, and I can't imagine anything else that makes
                        it."
                    Adam went to school, laughing. Kate did the washing and ironing, and worked
                        in the garden getting beds ready. Tuesday she was at the same occupation,
                        when about ten o'clock she dropped her spade and straightened, a
                        flash of perfect amazement crossing her face. She stood immovable save for
                        swaying forward in an attitude of tense listening.
                    "Hoo! hoo!"
                    Kate ran across the yard and as she turned the corner of the house she saw a
                        one-horse spring wagon standing before the gate, while a stiff, gaunt figure
                        sat bolt upright on the seat, holding the lines. Kate was at the wheel
                        looking up with a face of delighted amazement.
                    "Why, Mother!" she cried. "Why, Mother!"
                    "Go fetch a chair and help me down," said Mrs. Bates,
                        "this seat is getting tarnation hard."
                    Kate ran after a chair, and helped her mother to alight. Mrs. Bates promptly
                        took the chair, on the sidewalk.
                    "Just drop the thills," she said. "Lead him back
                        and slip on the halter. It's there with his feed."
                    Kate followed instructions, her heart beating wildly. Several times she
                        ventured a quick glance at her mother. How she had aged! How lined and thin
                        she was! But Oh, how blessed good it was to see her! Mrs. Bates arose  and they walked into the house, where she
                        looked keenly around, while her sharp eyes seemed to appraise everything as
                        she sat down and removed her bonnet.
                    "Go fetch me a drink," she said, "and take the
                        horse one and then I'll tell you why I came."
                    "I don't care why you came," said Kate,
                        "but Oh, Mother, thank God you are here!"
                    "Now, now, don't get het up!" cautioned Mrs.
                        Bates. "Water, I said."
                    Kate hurried to obey orders; then she sank on a chair and looked at her
                        mother. Mrs. Bates wiped her face and settled in the chair comfortably.
                    "They's no use to waste words," she said.
                        "Katie, you're the only one in the family that has any
                        sense, and sometimes you ain't got enough so's you could
                        notice it without a magnifyin' glass; but even so, you're
                        ahead of the rest of them. Katie, I'm sick an' tired of
                        the Neppleses and the Whistlers and being bossed by the whole
                        endurin' Bates tribe; sick and tired of it, so I just came after
                        you."
                    "Came after me?" repeated Kate stupidly.
                    "Yes, parrot, 'came after you,'" said
                        Mrs. Bates. "I told you, you'd no great amount of sense.
                        I'm speakin' plain, ain't I? I don't see
                        much here to hold you. I want you should throw a few traps, whatever you are
                        beholden to, in the wagonthat's why I brought itand come on home
                        and take care of me the rest of my time. It won't be so long; I
                        won't interfere much, nor be much bother. I've
                        kep' the place in order, but I'm  about fashed. I won't admit it to the rest of them;
                        but I don't seem to mind telling you, Katie, that I am almost
                        winded. Will you come?"
                    "Of course I will," said Kate, a tide of effulgent joy
                        surging up in her heart until it almost choked her. "Of course I
                        will, Mother, but my children, won't they worry you?"
                    "Never having had a child about, I s'pect likely they
                        may," said Mrs. Bates, dryly. "Why, you little fool! I
                        think likely it's the children I am pinin' for most,
                        though I couldn't a-stood it much longer without you. Will you get ready and come with me to-day?"
                    "Yes," said Kate, "if I can make it.
                        There's very little here I care for; I can have the second-hand man
                        give me what he will for the rest; and I can get a good price for the lot
                        to-day, if I say so. Dr. James wants it to build on. I'll go and do
                        the very best I can, and when you don't want me any longer, Adam
                        will be bigger and we can look out for ourselves. Yes, I'll get
                        ready at once if you want me to."
                    "Not much of a haggler, are you, Katie?" said Mrs. Bates.
                        "Why don't you ask what rooms you're to have, and
                        what I'll pay you, and how much work you'll have to do,
                        and if you take charge of the farm, and how we share up?"
                    Kate laughed: "Mother," she said, "I have been
                        going to school here, with the Master of Life for a teacher; and
                        I've learned so many things that really count, that I know now none of the things you mention are essential. You may keep
                        the answers to all those questions; I don't  care a cent about any of them. If you want me, and want the
                        children, all those things will settle themselves as we come to them. I
                        didn't use to understand you; but we got well enough acquainted at
                        Father's funeral, and I do, now. Whatever you do will be fair,
                        just, and right. I'll obey you, as I shall expect Adam and Polly
                        to."
                    "Well, for lands sakes, Katie," said Mrs. Bates.
                        "Life must a-been weltin' it to you good and proper. I
                        never expected to see you as meek as Moses. That Holt man wasn't
                        big enough to beat you, was he?"
                    "The ways in which he 'beat' me no Bates would
                        understand. I had eight years of them, and I don't understand them
                        yet; but I am so cooked with them, that I shall be wild with joy if you
                        truly mean for me to pack up and come home with you for awhile."
                    "Oh, Lordy, Katie!" said Mrs. Bates. "This whipped
                        out, take-anything-anyway style ain't becomin' to a big,
                        fine, upstanding woman like you. Hold up your head, child! Hold up your
                        head, and say what you want, an' how you want it!"
                    "Honestly, Mother, I don't want a thing on earth but to go
                        home with you and do as you say for the next ten years," said Kate.
                    "Stiffen up!" cried Mrs. Bates. "Stiffen
                        up!" "Don't be no broken reed, Katie! I
                        don't want you dependin' on me; I came
                        to see if you would let me lean on you
                        the rest of the way. I wa'n't figuring that there was
                        anything on this earth that could get you down; so's I was
                        calculatin' you'd be the very one to hold me up.  Since you seem to be feeling unaccountably
                        weak in the knees, let's see if we can brace them a little.
                        Livin' with Pa so long must kind of given me a tendency toward
                        nussin' a deed. I've got one here I had executed two years
                        ago, and I was a coming with it along about now, when 'a little
                        bird tole me' to come to-day, so here I am. Take that,
                        Katie."
                    Mrs. Bates pulled a long sealed envelope from the front of her dress and
                        tossed it in Kate's lap.
                    "Mother, what is this?" asked Kate in a hushed voice.
                    "Well, if you'd rather use your ears than your eyes,
                        it's all the same to me," said Mrs. Bates. "The
                        boys always had a mortal itchin' to get their fingers on the papers
                        in the case. I can't say I don't like the difference; and
                        I've give you every chance, too, an you wouldn't demand, you wouldn't
                        specify. Well, I'll just specify myself. I'm dead tired of
                        the neighbours taking care of me, and all of the children stoppin'
                        every time they pass, each one orderin' or insinuatin'
                        according to their lights, as to what I should do. I've always had
                        a party clear idea of what I wanted to do myself. Over forty years, I sided
                        with Pa, to keep the peace; now I reckon I'm free
                        to do as I like. That's my side. You can tell me yours,
                        now."
                    Kate shook her head: "I have nothing to say."
                    "Jest as well," said Mrs. Bates. "Re-hashing
                        don't do any good. Come back, and come to-day; but stiffen up. That
                        paper you are holding is a warrantee deed to the home two hundred to you and
                        your children after  you. You take possession
                        to-day. There's money in the bank to paper, an' paint, and
                        make any little changes you'd like, such as cutting doors or
                        windows different places, floorin' the kitchen new, or the like.
                        Take it an' welcome. I got more 'an enough to last me all
                        my days; all I ask of you is my room, my food, and your company. Take the
                        farm, and do what you pretty please with it."
                    "But, Mother!" cried Kate. "The rest of them!
                        They'd tear me limb for limb. I don't dare take this."
                    "Oh, don't you?" asked Mrs. Bates. "Well,
                        I still stand for quite a bit at Bates Corners, and I say you will take that farm, and run it as you like. It is mine, I give it
                        to you. We all know it wasn't your fault you lost your money,
                        though it was a dose it took some of us a good long time to swallow. You are
                        the only one out of your share; you settled things fine for the rest of
                        them; and they all know it, and feel it. You'll never know what you
                        did for me the way you put me through Pa's funeral; now if
                        you'll just shut up, and stick that deed somewhere it
                        won't burn, and come home an' plant me as successfully as
                        you did Pa, you'll have earned all you'll get,
                        an' something coming. Now set us out a bite to eat, and then
                        let's be off."
                    Kate slowly arose and handed back the deed.
                    "I'll be flying around so lively I might lose
                        that," she said, "you put it where you had it, till we get
                        to Hartley, and then I'll get a place in the bank vault for it. I
                        can't quite take this in, just yet, but you know I'll do
                        my best for you, Mother!"
                    "Tain't likely I'd be here else," said
                        Mrs. Bates, "and  tea, Katie. A cup
                        of good strong hot tea would fix me up about proper, right now."
                    Kate went to the kitchen and began setting everything she had to eat on the
                        table. As she worked Polly came flying in the door crying: "Mother,
                        who has come?" so Kate stepped toward the living room to show the
                        child to her grandmother and as she advanced she saw a queer thing. Adam was
                        sitting on his grandmother's lap. Her arms were tight around him,
                        her face buried in his crisp hair, and he was patting her shoulder and
                        telling her he would take care of her, while her voice said distinctly:
                        "Of course you will, birdie!" Then the lad and the old
                        woman laid their heads together and laughed almost hysterically.
                    "Well, if that isn't quick
                        work!" said Kate to herself. Then she presented Polly, who
                        followed Adam's lead in hugging the stranger first and looking at
                        her afterward. God bless all little children. Then Adam ran to tell the
                        second-hand man to come at one o'clock and Dr. James that he might
                        have the keys at three. They ate hurriedly. Kate set out what she wished to
                        save; the children carried things to the wagon; she packed while they ran
                        after their books, and at three o'clock all of them climbed into
                        the spring wagon, and started to Bates Corners.
                    Kate was the last one in. As she climbed on the seat beside her mother and
                        took the lines, she handed Mrs. Bates a small china mug to hold for her. It
                        was decorated with a very fat robin and on a banner floating from its beak
                        was inscribed: "For a Good Girl."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    LIFE'S BOOMERANG
                    
                    
                        AS THEY drove into Hartley, Mrs. Bates drew forth the
                        deed.
                    "You are right about the bank being a safe place for this,"
                        she said. "I've had it round the house for two years, and
                        it's a fair nervous thing to do. I wish I'd a-had sense to
                        put it there and come after you the day I made it. But there's no
                        use crying over spilt milk, nor fussin' with the grease spot it
                        makes; salt it down safely now, and when you get it done, beings as this
                        setting is fairly comfortable, take time to run into Harding's and
                        pick up some Sunday-school clothes for the children that will tally up with
                        the rest of their relations'; an' get yourself a cheap
                        frock or two that will spruce you up a bit till you have time to decide what
                        you really want."
                    Kate passed the lines to her mother, and climbed from the wagon. She returned
                        with her confidence partly restored and a new look on her face. Her mother
                        handed her two dimes.
                    "I can wait five minutes longer," she said. "Now
                        get two nice oranges and a dime's worth of candy."
                    Kate took the money and obeyed orders. She handed the packages to her mother
                        as she climbed into the  wagon and again took
                        the lines, heading the horse toward the old, familiar road. Her mother
                        twisted around on the seat and gave each of the children an orange and a
                        stick of candy.
                    "There!" she said. "Go on and spoil yourselves
                        past redemption."
                    Kate laughed. "But, Mother," she said, "you never
                        did that for us."
                    "Which ain't saying I never wanted
                        to," said Mrs. Bates, sourly. "You're a child
                        only once in this world; it's a little too rough to strip childhood
                        of everything. I ain't so certain Bates ways are right, that for
                        the rest of my time I'm goin' to fly in the face of all
                        creation to prove it. If God lets me live a few years more, I want the faces
                        around me a little less discontenteder than those I've been used
                        to. If God Almighty spares me long enough, I lay out to make sure that Adam
                        and Polly will squeeze out a tear or two for Granny when she is laid
                        away.'
                    "I think you are right, Mother," said Kate. "It
                        didn't cost anything, but we had a real pretty Christmas tree this
                        year, and I believe we can do better next time. I want the children to love
                        you, but don't buy them."
                    "Well, I'd hardly call an orange and a stick of candy
                        traffickin' in affection," said Mrs. Bates.
                        "They'll survive it without underminin' their
                        principles, I'll be bound, or yours either. Katie, let's
                        make a beginning to-day. Let's work what is right, and
                            healthy, a fair part of the day, and then each day, and Sunday
                            especially, let's play and rest, just as hard as we work.
                            It's been all work and no play till  we've been mighty 'dull boys'
                            at our house; I'm free to say that I hanker for a change before
                            I die."
                    "Don't speak so often of dying," said Kate.
                        "You're all right. You've been too much alone.
                        You'll feel like yourself as soon as you get rested."
                    "I guess I been thinking about it too much," said Mrs.
                        Bates. "I ain't been so well as I might, an' not
                        being used to it, it worries me some. I got to buck up. The one thing I can't do is to die; but I'm most tired
                        enough to do it right now. I'll be glad when we get home."
                    Kate drove carefully, but as fast as she dared with her load. As they neared
                        Bates Corners, the way became more familiar each mile. Kate forgot the
                        children, forgot her mother, forgot ten years of disappointment and failure,
                        and began a struggle to realize what was happening to her now. The lines
                        slipped down, the horse walked slowly, the first thing she knew, big hot
                        tears splashed on her hand. She gathered up the lines, drew a deep breath,
                        and glanced at her mother, meeting her eye fairly. Kate tried to smile, but
                        her lips were quivering.
                    "Glad, Katie?" asked Mrs. Bates.
                    Kate nodded.
                    "Me, too!" said Mrs. Bates.
                    They passed the orchard.
                    "There's the house, there, Polly!" cried Adam.
                    "Why, Adam, how did you know the place?" asked Kate,
                        turning.
                    Adam hesitated a second. "Ain't you told us times a-plenty
                        about the house and the lilac, and the snowball  bush" "Yes, and the cabbage roses," added
                        Polly.
                    "So I have," said Kate. "Mostly last winter when
                        we were knitting. Yes, this will be home for all the rest of our lives.
                        Isn't it grand? How will we ever thank Grandmother? How will we
                        ever be good enough to pay her?"
                    Both children thought this a hint, so with one accord they arose and fell on
                        Mrs. Bates' back, and began to pay at once in coin of childhood.
                    "There, there," said Kate, drawing them away as she stopped
                        the horse at the gate. "There, there, you will choke
                        Grandmother."
                    Mrs. Bates pushed Kate's arm down.
                    "Mind your own business, will you?" she said. "I
                        ain't so feeble that I can't speak for myself awhile
                        yet."
                    In a daze Kate climbed down, and ran to bring a chair to help her mother. The
                        children were boisterously half eating Mrs. Bates up; she had both of them
                        in her arms, with every outward evidence of enjoying the performance
                        immensely. That was a very busy evening, for the wagon was to be unpacked;
                        all of them were hungry, while the stock was to be fed, and the milking
                        done. Mrs. Bates and Polly attempted supper; Kate and Adam went to the barn;
                        but they worked very hurriedly, for Kate could see how feeble her mother had
                        grown.
                    When at last the children were bathed and in bed,  Kate and her mother sat on the little front porch to smell
                        spring a few minutes before going to rest. Kate reached over and took her
                        mother's hand.
                    "There's no word I know in any language big enough to thank
                        you for this, Mother," she said. "The best I can do is to
                        make each day as nearly a perfect expression of what I feel as
                        possible."
                    Mrs. Bates drew away her hand and used it to wipe her eyes; but she said with
                        her usual terse perversity: "My, Kate! You're most as
                        wordy as Agatha. I'm no glibtonguer, but I bet you ten dollars it
                        will hustle you some to be any gladder than I am."
                    Kate laughed and gave up the thanks question.
                    "To-morrow we must get some onions in," she said.
                    "Have you made any plans about the farm work for this year
                        yet?"
                    "No," said Mrs. Bates. "I was going to leave that
                        till I decided whether I'd come after you this spring or wait until
                        next. Since I decided to come now, I'll just leave your farm to
                        you. Handle it as you please."
                    "Mother, what will the other children say?" implored Kate.
                    "Humph! You are about as well acquainted with them as I am. Take a
                        shot at it yourself. If it will avoid a fuss, we might just say you had come
                        to stay with me, and run the farm for me, and let them get used to your
                        being here and bossing things by degrees; like the man that cut his
                        dog's tail off an inch at a time, so it wouldn't hurt so
                        bad."
                    
                    "But by inches, or 'at one fell swoop,'
                        it's going to hurt," said Kate.
                    "Sometimes it seems to me," said Mrs. Bates, "that
                        the more we get hurt in this world the decenter it makes
                        us. All the boys were hurt enough when Pa went, but every man of them has
                        been a bigger, better man since. Instead of competing as
                        they always did, Adam and Andrew and the older, beforehandeder ones, took
                        hold and helped the younger as you told them to, and it's done the
                        whole family a world of good. One thing is funny. To hear Mary talk now,
                        you'd think she engineered that plan herself. The boys are all
                        thankful, and so are the girls. I leave it to you. Tell them or let them
                        guess it by degrees, it's all one to me."
                    "Tell me about Nancy Ellen and Robert," said Kate.
                    "Robert stands head in Hartley. He gets bigger and broader every
                        year. He is better looking than a man has any business to be; and I hear the
                        Hartley ladies give him plenty of encouragement in being stuck on himself,
                        but I think he is true to Nancy Ellen, and his heart is all in his work. No
                        children. That's a burning shame! Both of them feel it. In a way,
                        and strictly between you and me, Nancy Ellen is a disappointment to me,
                        an' I doubt if she ain't been a mite of a one to him. He
                        had a right to expect a good deal of Nancy Ellen. She had such a good brain,
                        and good body, and purty face. I may miss my guess, but it always strikes me
                        that she falls short of what he expected of her.
                        He's coined money, but she hasn't spent it in the ways he
                        would. Likely I  shouldn't say it,
                        but he strikes me as being just a leetle mite too good for her."
                    "Oh, Mother!" said Kate.
                    "Now you lookey here," said Mrs. Bates. "Suppose
                        you was a man of Robert's brains, and education, and professional
                        ability, and you made heaps of money, and no children came, and you had to
                        see all you earned, and stood for, and did in a community spent on the selfishness of one woman. How big would you feel? What end
                        is that for the ambition and life work of a real man? How would you like
                        it?"
                    "I never thought of such a thing," said Kate.
                    "Well, mark my word, you will think of it when you
                        see their home, and her clothes, and see them together," said Mrs.
                        Bates.
                    "She still loves pretty clothing so well?" asked Kate.
                    "She is the best-dressed woman in the county, and the best
                        looking," said Mrs. Bates, "and that's all there
                        is to her. I'm free to say with her chances, I'm ashamed
                        of what she has, and hasn't made of herself. I'd rather
                        stand in your shoes, than hers, this minute, Katie."
                    "Does she know I'm here?" asked Kate.
                    "Yes. I stopped and told her on my way out, this morning,"
                        said Mrs. Bates. "I asked them to come out for Sunday dinner, and
                        they are coming."
                    "Did you deliver the invitation by force?" asked Kate.
                    "Now, none of your meddling," said Mrs. Bates. "I
                        got what I went after, and that was all I wanted. I've told her
                        an' told her to come to see you during the last  three years, an' I know she wanted to come; but she just had that stubborn Bates
                        streak in her that wouldn't let her change, once her mind was made
                        up. It did give us a purty severe jolt, Kate, havin' all that good
                        Bates money burn up."
                    "I scarcely think it jolted any of you more than it did
                        me," said Kate dryly.
                    "No, I reckon it didn't," said Mrs. Bates.
                        "But they's no use hauling ourselves over the coals to go
                        into that. It's past. You went out to face life bravely enough and
                        it throwed you a boomerang that cut a circle and brought you back where you
                        started from. Our arrangements for the future are all made. Now
                        it's up to us to live so that we get the most out of life for us
                        an' the children. Those are mighty nice children of yours, Kate. I
                        take to that boy something amazin', and the girl is the nicest
                        little old lady I've seen in many a day. I think we will like
                        knittin' and sewin' together, to the top of our
                        bent."
                    "My, but I'm glad you like them, Mother," said
                        Kate. "They are all I've got to show for ten years of my
                        life."
                    "Not by a long shot, Katie," said Mrs. Bates.
                        "Life has made a real woman of you. I kept watchin' you
                        to-day comin' over; an' I was prouder 'an Jehu of
                        you. It's a debatable question whether you have thrown away your
                        time and your money. I say you've got something to show for it that
                        I wish to God the rest of my children had. I want you should brace your
                        back, and stiffen your neck, and make things hum here. Get a  carpenter first. Fix the house the way it
                        will be most convenient and comfortable. Then paint and paper, and get what
                        new things you like, in reasonof course, in reasonand then I want you should
                        get all of us clothes so's there ain't a noticeable
                        difference between us and the others when we come together here or
                        elsewhere. Put in a telephone; they're mighty handy, and if you can
                        scrape up a placeI washed in Nancy Ellen's tub a few weeks ago. I
                        never was wet all over at once before in my life, and I'm just
                        itching to try it again. I say, let's have it, if it knocks a
                        fair-sized hole in a five-hundred-dollar bill. An' if we had the
                        telephone right now, we could call up folks an' order what we want
                        without ever budgin' out of our tracks. Go up head, Katie,
                        I'll back you in anything you can think of. It won't hurt
                        my feelings a mite if you can think of one or two things the rest of them
                        haven't got yet. Can't you think of something that will
                        lay the rest of them clear in the shade? I just wish you could. Now,
                        I'm going to bed."
                    Kate went with her mother, opened her bed, pulled out the pins, and brushed
                        her hair, drew the thin cover over her, and blew out the light. Then she
                        went past the bed on her way to the door, and stooping, she kissed her
                        mother for the first time since she could remember.
                    Then she lighted a lamp, hunted a big sheet of wrapping paper, and sitting
                        down beside the living room table, she drew a rough sketch of the house. For
                        hours she pored over it, and when at last she went to bed, on the reverse of
                        the sheet she had a drawing that was quite a different  affair; yet it was the same house with very few and easily
                        made changes that a good contractor could accomplish in a short time. In the
                        morning, she showed these ideas to her mother who approved all of them, but
                        still showed disappointment visibly.
                    "That's nothing but all the rest of them have,"
                        she said.
                    "I thought you could think up some frills that would be new, and
                        different."
                    "Well," said Kate, "would you want to go to the
                        expense of setting up a furnace in the cellar? It would make the whole house
                        toasty warm; it would keep the bathroom from freezing in cold weather; and
                        make a better way to heat the water."
                    "Now you're shouting!" cried Mrs. Bates.
                        "That's it! But keep still. Don't you tell a soul
                        about it, but go on and do it, Katie. Wade right in! What else can you think
                        of?"
                    "A brain specialist for you," said Kate. "I think
                        myself this is enough for a start; but if you insist on more,
                        there's a gas line passing us out there on the road; we could hitch
                        on for a very reasonable sum, and do away with lamps and cooking with
                        wood."
                    "Goody for you! That's it!" cried Mrs. Bates.
                        "That's the very thing! Now brush up your hair your
                        prettiest, and put on your new blue dress, and take the buggy, and you and
                        Adam go see how much of this can be started to-day. Me and Polly will keep
                        house."
                    In a month all of these changes had been made, and were in running order; the
                        painting was finished, the new furniture  in
                        place, a fair start made on the garden, while a strong, young, hired man was
                        not far behind Hiram with his plowing. Kate was so tired she almost
                        staggered; but she was so happy she arose each morning refreshed, and
                        accomplished work enough for three average women before the day was over.
                        She suggested to her mother that she use of her money from the sale of the
                        Walden home to pay for what furniture she had bought, and then none of the
                        others could feel that they were entitled to any share in it, at any time.
                        Mrs. Bates thought that a good idea, so much ill will was saved among the
                        children.
                    They all stopped in passing; some of them had sharp words to say, which Kate
                        instantly answered in such a way that this was seldom tried twice. In two
                        months the place was fresh, clean, convenient, and in good taste. All of
                        them had sufficient suitable clothing, while the farm work had not been
                        neglected enough to hurt the value of the crops.
                    In the division of labour, Adam and the hired man took the barn and field
                        work, Mrs. Bates and Polly the house, while Kate threw all her splendid
                        strength wherever it was most needed. If a horse was sick, she went to the
                        barn and doctored it. If the hay was going to get wet, she pitched hay. If
                        the men had not time for the garden she attended it, and hoed the potatoes.
                        For a change, everything went right. Mrs. Bates was happier than she ever
                        had been before, taking the greatest interest in the children. They had
                        lived for three years in such a manner that they would never forget it. They
                        were old  enough to appreciate what changes
                        had come to them, and to be very keen about their new home and life. Kate
                        threw herself into the dream of her heart with all the zest of her being.
                        Always she had loved and wanted land. Now she had it. She knew how to handle
                        it. She could make it pay as well as any Bates man, for she had man
                        strength, and all her life she had heard men discuss, and helped men apply
                        man methods.
                    There was a strong strain of her father's spirit of driving in
                        Kate's blood; but her mother was so tired of it that whenever Kate
                        had gone just so far the older woman had merely to caution: "Now,
                        now, Katie!" to make Kate realize what she was doing and take a
                        slower pace. All of them were well, happy, and working hard; but they also
                        played at proper times, and in convenient places. Kate and her mother went
                        with the children when they fished in the meadow brook, or hunted wild
                        flowers in the woods for Polly's bed in the shade of the pear tree
                        beside the garden. There were flowers in the garden now, as well as
                        vegetables. There was no work done on Sunday. The children always went to
                        Sunday-school and the full term of the District School at Bates Corners.
                        They were respected, they were prosperous, they were finding a joy in life
                        they never before had known, while life had taught them how to appreciate
                        its good things as they achieved them.
                    The first Christmas Mrs. Bates and Kate made a Christmas tree from a small
                        savine in the dooryard that stood where Kate wanted to set a flowering shrub
                        she had  found in the woods. Guided by the
                        former year, and with a few dollars they decided to spend, these women made
                        a real Christmas tree, with gifts and ornaments, over which Mrs. Bates was
                        much more excited than the children. Indeed, such is the perversity of
                        children that Kate's eyes widened and her mouth sagged when she
                        heard Adam say in a half-whisper to Polly: "This is mighty pretty,
                        but gee, Polly, there'll never be another tree as pretty as ours
                        last year!"
                    While Polly answered: "I was just thinking about it, Adam.
                        Wasn't it the grandest thing?"
                    The next Christmas Mrs. Bates advanced to a tree that reached the ceiling,
                        with many candles, real ornaments, and an orange, a stocking of candy and
                        nuts, and a doll for each girl, and a knife for each boy of her
                        grand-children, all of whom she invited for dinner. Adam, 3d, sat at the
                        head of the table, Mrs. Bates at the foot. The tiniest tots that could be
                        trusted without their parents ranged on the Dictionary and the Bible, of
                        which the Bates family possessed a fat edition for birth records; no one had
                        ever used it for any other purpose, until it served to lift Hiram's
                        baby, Milly, on a level with her roast turkey and cranberry jelly. For a
                        year before her party Mrs. Bates planned for it. The tree was beautiful, the
                        gifts amazing, the dinner, as Kate cooked and served it, a revelation, with
                        its big centre basket of red, yellow, and green apples, oranges, bananas,
                        grapes, and flowers. None of them ever had seen a table like that. Then when
                        dinner was over, Kate sat before the fire and in her  clear voice, with fine inflections, she read from the Big Book
                        the story of the guiding star and the little child in the manger. Then she
                        told stories, and they played games until four o'clock; and then
                        Adam rolled all of the children into the big wagon bed mounted on the sled
                        runners, and took them home. Then he came back and finished the day. Mrs.
                        Bates could scarcely be persuaded to go to bed. When at last Kate went to
                        put out her mother's light and see that her feet were warm and her
                        covers tucked, she found her crying.
                    "Why, Mother!" exclaimed Kate in frank dismay.
                        "Wasn't everything all right?"
                    "I'm just so endurin' mad" sobbed Mrs.
                        Bates, "that I could a-most scream and throw things. Here
                        , closer the end of my string than anybody knows. Likely
                        I'll not see another Christmas. I've lived the most of my
                        life, and never knowed there was a time like that on earth to be had. There
                        wasn't expense to it we couldn't easy have stood, always.
                        Now, at the end of my tether, I go and do this for my grandchildren.
                        'Tween their little shining faces and me, there kept coming all day
                        the little, sad, disappointed faces of you and Nancy Ellen, and Mary, and
                        Hannah, and Adam, and Andrew, and Hiram and all the others. Ever since he
                        went I've thought the one thing I couldn't do
                            was to die and face Adam Bates, but to-day I ain't felt so
                        scared of him. Seems to me he has got about as much to
                        account for as I have."
                    Kate stood breathlessly still, looking at her mother.  Mrs. Bates wiped her eyes. "I ain't so
                        mortal certain," she said, "that I don't open up
                        on him and take the first word. I think likely I been defrauded out of more
                        that really counts in this world, than he has. Ain't that little
                        roly-poly of Hannah's too sweet? Seems like I'll hardly
                        quit feeling her little sticky hands and her little hot mouth on my face
                        when I die; and as she went out she whispered in my ear: 'Do it
                        again, Grandma, Oh, please do it again!' an it's
                        more'n likely I'll not get the chance, no matter how
                        willing I am. Kate, I am going to leave you what of my money is leftI
                        haven't spent so muchand while you live here, I wish each year you
                        would have this same kind of a party and pay for it out of that money, and
                        call it 'Grandmother's Party.' Will
                        you?"
                    "I surely will," said Kate. "And hadn't I
                        better have all of them, and put some little thing from
                        you on the tree for them? You know how Hiram always was wild for cuff
                        buttons, and Mary could talk by the hour about a handkerchief with lace on
                        it, and Andrew never yet has got that copy of 'Aesop's
                        Fables,' he always wanted. Shall I?"
                    "Yes," said Mrs. Bates. "Oh, yes, and when you do
                        it, Katie, if they don't chain me pretty close in on the other
                        side, I think likely I'll be sticking around as near as I can get
                        to you."
                    Kate slipped a hot brick rolled in flannel to the cold old feet, and turning
                        out the light she sat beside the bed and stroked the tired head until easy
                        breathing  cold her that her mother was sound
                        asleep. Then she went back to the fireplace and sitting in the red glow she
                        told Adam, 3d, part of what her mother had said. Long
                        after he was gone, she sat gazing into the slowly graying coals, her mind
                        busy with what she had not told.
                    That spring was difficult for Kate. Day after day she saw her mother growing
                        older, feebler, and frailer. And as the body failed, up flamed the wings of
                        the spirit, carrying her on and on, each day keeping her alive, when Kate
                        did not see how it could be done. With all the force she could gather, each
                        day Mrs. Bates struggled to keep going, denied that she felt badly, drove
                        herself to try to help about the house and garden. Kate warned the remainder
                        of the family what they might expect at any hour; but when they began coming
                        in oftener, bringing little gifts and being unusually kind, Mrs. Bates
                        endured a few of the visits in silence, then she turned to Kate and said
                        after her latest callers: "I wonder what in the name of all
                        possessed ails the folks? Are they just itching to start my funeral?
                        Can't they stay away until you send them word that the
                        breath's out of my body?"
                    "Mother, you shock me," said Kate. "They come
                        because they love you. They try to tell you so with the
                        little things they bring. Most people would think they were neglected, if
                        their children did not come to see them when they were not
                        so well."
                    "'Not so well!'" cried Mrs. Bates.
                        "Folly! I am as well as I ever was. They needn't come
                        snooping around, trying to make me think I'm not. If
                        they'd a-done it  all their lives,
                        well and good; it's no time for them to begin being cotton-mouthed
                        now."
                    "Mother," said Kate gently, "haven't you changed, yourself, about things like Christmas, for
                        example? Maybe your children are changing, too. Maybe they feel that they
                        have missed something they'd like to have from you, and give back
                        to you, before it's too late. Just maybe," said Kate.
                    Mrs. Bates sat bolt upright still, but her flashing eyes softened.
                    "I hadn't just thought of that," she said.
                        "I think it's more than likely. Well, if it's that way, I s'pose I've got to button up
                        my lip and stand it; but it's about more than I can go, when I know
                        that the first time I lose my grip I'll land smash up against Adam
                        Bates and my settlement with him."
                    "Mother," said Kate still more gently, "I thought
                        we had it settled at the time Father went that each of you would be
                        accountable to God, not to each other. I am a wanderer in
                        darkness myself, when it comes to talking about God, but this I know, He is
                            somewhere and He is redeeming love.
                        If Father has been in the light of His love all these years, he must have
                        changed more, far more than you have. He'll understand now how
                        wrong he was to force ways on you he knew you didn't think right;
                        he'll have more to account to you for than you ever will to him;
                        and remember this only, neither of you is accountable, save to your
                        God."
                    Mrs. Bates arose and walked to the door, drawn to full  height, her head very erect. The world was at bloom-time. The
                        evening air was heavily sweet with lilacs, and the widely branching, old
                        apple trees of the dooryard were loaded with flowers. She stepped outside.
                        Kate followed. Her mother went down the steps and down the walk to the gate.
                        Kate kept beside her, in reach, yet not touching her. At the gate she
                        gripped the pickets to steady herself as she stared long and unflinchingly
                        at the red setting sun dropping behind a white wall of bloom. Then she
                        slowly turned, life's greatest tragedy lining her face, her breath
                        coming in short gasps. She spread her hands at each side, as if to balance
                        herself, her passing soul in her eyes, and looked at Kate.
                    "Katherine Eleanor," she said slowly and distinctly,
                        "I'm going now. I can't fight it off any longer.
                        I confess myself. I burned those deeds. Every one of them. Pa got himself
                        afire, but he'd thrown them out of it. It was my
                        chance. I took it. Are you going to tell them?"
                    Kate was standing as tall and straight as her mother, her hands extended the
                        same, but not touching her.
                    "No," she said. "You were an instrument in the
                        hands of God to right a great wrong. No! I shall never tell a soul while I
                        live. In a minute God himself will tell you that you did what He willed you
                        should."
                    "Well, we will see about that right now," said Mrs. Bates,
                        lifting her face to the sky. "Into thy hands, O Lord, into thy
                        hands!"
                    Then she closed her eyes and ceased to breathe. Kate took her into her arms
                        and carried her to her bed.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    SOMEWHAT OF POLLY
                    
                    
                        IF THE spirit of Mrs. Bates hovered among the
                        bloom-whitened apple trees as her mortal remains were carried past the
                        lilacs and cabbage rose bushes, through a rain of drifting petals, she must
                        have been convinced that time had wrought one great change in the hearts of
                        her children. They had all learned to weep; while if the tears they shed
                        were a criterion of their feelings for her, surely her soul must have been
                        satisfied. They laid her away with simple ceremony and then all of them went
                        to their homes, except Nancy Ellen and Robert, who stopped in passing to
                        learn if there was anything they could do for Kate. She was grieving too
                        deeply for many words; none of them would ever understand the deep bond of
                        sympathy and companionship that had grown to exist between her and her
                        mother. She stopped at the front porch and sat down, feeling unable to enter
                        the house with Nancy Ellen, who was deeply concerned over the lack of taste
                        displayed in Agatha's new spring hat. When Kate could endure it no
                        longer she interrupted: "Why didn't all of them
                        come?"
                    "What for?" asked Nancy Ellen.
                    
                    "They had a right to know what Mother had done," said Kate
                        in a low voice.
                    "But what was the use?" asked Nancy Ellen. "Adam
                        had been managing the administrator business for Mother and paying her taxes
                        with his, of course when she made a deed to you, and had it recorded, they
                        told him. All of us knew it for two years before she went after you. And the
                        new furniture was bought with your money, so it's yours; what was
                        there to have a meeting about?"
                    "Mother didn't understand that you children knew,"
                        said Kate.
                    "Sometimes I thought there were a lot of things Mother
                        didn't understand," said Nancy Ellen, "and
                        sometimes I thought she understood so much more than any of the rest of us,
                        that all of us would have had a big surprise if we could have seen her
                        brain."
                    "Yes, I believe we would," said Kate. "Do you mind
                        telling me how the boys and girls feel about this?"
                    Nancy Ellen laughed shortly. "Well, the boys feel that you
                        negotiated such a fine settlement of Father's affairs for them,
                        that they owe this to you. The girls were pretty sore at first, and some of
                        them are nursing their wrath yet; but there wasn't a thing on earth
                        they could do. All of them were perfectly willing that you should have
                        somethingafter the fireof course, most of them thought Mother went too
                        far."
                    "I think so myself," said Kate. "But she never
                        came near me, or wrote me, or sent me even one word,  until the day she came after me. I had nothing to do with
                        it"
                    "All of us know that, Kate," said Nancy Ellen.
                        "You needn't worry. We're all used to it, and
                        we're all at the place where we have nothing to say."
                    To escape grieving for her mother, Kate worked that summer as never before.
                        Adam was growing big enough and strong enough to be a real help. He was
                        interested in all they did, always after the reason, and trying to think of
                        a better way. Kate secured the best agricultural paper for him and they read
                        it nights together. They kept an account book, and set down all they spent,
                        and balanced against it all they earned, putting the difference, which was
                        often more than they hoped for, in the bank.
                    So the years ran. As the children grew older, Polly discovered that the
                        nicest boy in school lived across the road half a mile north of them; while
                        Adam, after a real struggle in his loyal twin soul, aided by the fact that
                        Henry Peters usually had divided his apples with Polly before Adam reached
                        her, discovered that Milly York, across the road, half a mile south, liked
                        his apples best, and was as nice a girl as Polly ever dared be. In a dazed
                        way, Kate learned these things from their after-school and Sunday talk, saw
                        that they nearly reached her shoulder, and realized that they were sixteen.
                        So quickly the time goes, when people are busy, happy, and working together.
                        At least Kate and Adam were happy, for they were always working together. By
                        tacit agreement, they left Polly the easy housework, and went themselves  to the fields to wrestle with the rugged work
                        of a farm. They thought they were shielding Polly, teaching her a
                        woman's real work, and being kind to her.
                    Polly thought they were together because they liked to be; doing the farm
                        work because it suited them better; while she had known from babyhood that
                        for some reason her mother did not care for her as she did for Adam. She
                        thought at first that it was because Adam was a boy. Later, when she noticed
                        her mother watching her every time she started to speak, and interrupting
                        with the never-failing caution: "Now be careful! Think before you speak! Are you sure?" she
                        wondered why this should happen to her always, to Adam never. She asked Adam
                        about it, but Adam did not know. It never occurred to Polly to ask her
                        mother, while Kate was so uneasy it never occurred to her that the child
                        would notice or what she would think. The first time Polly I deviated
                        slightly from the truth, she and Kate had a very terrible time. Kate felt
                        fully justified; the child astonished and abused.
                    Polly arrived at the solution of her problem slowly. As she grew older, she
                        saw that her mother, who always was charitable to everyone else, was
                        repelled by her grandmother, while she loved Aunt Ollie. Older still, Polly
                        realized that she was a reproduction of her grandmother.
                        She had only to look at her to see this: her mother did not like her
                        grandmother, maybe Mother did not like her as well as Adam, because she
                        resembled her grandmother. By the time she was sixteen, Polly had  arrived at a solution that satisfied her as
                        to why her mother liked Adam better, and always left her alone in the house
                        to endless cooking, dishwashing, sweeping, dusting, washing, and ironing,
                        while she hoed potatoes, pitched hay, or sheared sheep. Polly thought the
                        nicer way would have been to do the housework together and then go to the
                        fields together; but she was a good soul, so she worked alone and brooded in
                        silence, and watched up the road for a glimpse of Henry Peters, who liked to
                        hear her talk, and to whom it mattered not a mite that her hair was
                        lustreless, her eyes steel coloured, and her nose like that of a woman he
                        never had seen. In her way, Polly admired her mother, loved her, and worked
                        until she was almost dropping for Kate's scant, infrequent words of
                        praise.
                    So Polly had to be content in the kitchen. One day, having finished her work
                        two hours before dinnertime, she sauntered to the front gate. How strange
                        that Henry Peters should be at the end of the field joining their land. When
                        he waved, she waved back. When he climbed the fence she opened the gate.
                        They met halfway, under the bloomful shade of a red haw. Henry wondered who
                        two men he had seen leaving the Holt gate were, and what they wanted, but he
                        was too polite to ask. He merely hoped they did not annoy her. Oh, no, they
                        were only some men to see Mother about some business, but it was most kind
                        of him to let her know he was looking out for her. She got so lonely; Mother
                        never would let her go to the field with her. Of course not! The field  was no place for such a pretty girl; there
                        was enough work in the house for her. His sister should not work in the
                        field, if he had a sister, and Polly should not work there, if she belonged
                        to him; No-sir-ee! Polly looked at Henry with shining, young girl eyes, and
                        when he said she was pretty, her blue-gray eyes softened, her cheeks pinked
                        up, the sun put light in her hair nature had failed to, and lo and behold,
                        the marvel was wroughtplain little Polly became a thing of beauty. She knew
                        it instantly, because she saw herself in Henry Peters' eyes. And
                        Henry was so amazed when this wonderful transformation took place in little
                        Polly, right there under the red haw tree, that his own eyes grew big and
                        tender, his cheeks flooded with red blood, his heart shook him, and he drew
                        to full height, and became possessed of an overwhelming desire to dance
                        before Polly, and sing to her. He grew so splendid, Polly caught her breath,
                        and then she smiled on him a very wondering smile, over the great discovery;
                        and Henry grew so bewildered he forgot either to dance or sing as a
                        preliminary. He merely, just merely, reached out and gathered Polly in his
                        arms, and held her against him, and stared down at her wonderful beauty
                        opening right out under his eyes.
                    "Little Beautiful!" said Henry Peters in a hushed, choking
                        voice, "Little Beautiful!"
                    Polly looked up at him. She was every bit as beautiful as he thought her,
                        while he was so beautiful to Polly that she gasped for breath. How did he
                        happen to look as he did, right under the red haw, in broad daylight? He  had been hers, of course, ever since, shy and
                        fearful, she had first entered Bates Corners school, and found courage in
                        his broad, encouraging smile. Now she smiled on him, the smile of possession
                        that was in her heart. Henry instantly knew she always had belonged to him,
                        so he grasped her closer, and bent his head. When Henry went back to the
                        plow, and Polly ran down the road, with the joy of the world surging in her
                        heart and brain, she knew that she was going to have to account to her
                        tired, busy mother for being half an hour late with dinner; and he knew he
                        was going to have to explain to an equally tired father why he was four
                        furrows short of where he should be.
                    He came to book first, and told the truth. He had seen some men go to
                        Holts'. Polly was his little chum; and she was always alone all
                        summer, so he just walked that way to be sure she was safe. His father
                        looked at him quizzically.
                    "So that's the way the wind
                        blows!" he said. "Well, I don't know where you
                        could find a nicer little girl or a better worker. I'd always hoped
                        you'd take to Milly York; but Polly is better; she can work three
                        of Milly down. Awful plain, though!"
                    This sacrilege came while Henry's lips were tingling with their
                        first kiss, and his heart was drunken with the red wine of innocent young
                        love.
                    "Why, Dad, you're crazy!" he cried.
                        "There isn't another girl in the whole world as pretty and
                        sweet as Polly. Milly York? She can't hold a candle to Polly!  Besides, she's been Adam's
                        as long as Polly has been mine!"
                    "God bless my soul!" cried Mr. Peters. "How these
                        youngsters do run away with us. And are you the most beautiful young man at
                        Bates Corners, Henry?"
                    "I'm beautiful enough that Polly will put her arms around
                        my neck and kiss me, anyway," blurted Henry. "So you and
                        Ma can get ready for a wedding as soon as Polly says the word. I'm
                        ready, right now."
                    "So am I," said Mr. Peters, "and from the way Ma
                        complains about the work I and you boys make her, I don't think she
                        will object to a little help. Polly is a good, steady worker."
                    Polly ran, but she simply could not light the fire, set the table, and get
                        things cooked on time, while everything she touched seemed to spill or slip.
                        She could not think what, or how, to do as usual for the very good reason
                        that Henry Peters was a Prince, and a Knight, and a Lover, and a Sweetheart,
                        and her Man; she had just agreed to all this with her soul, less than an
                        hour ago under the red haw. No wonder she was late, no wonder she spilled
                        and smeared; and red of face she blundered and bungled, for the first time
                        in her life. Then in came Kate. She must lose no time, the corn must be
                        finished before it rained. She must hurryand for the first time dinner was
                        late, while Polly was messing like a perfect little fool.
                    Kate stepped in and began to right things with practised hand. Disaster came
                        when she saw Polly, at the well, take an instant from bringing in the water,
                        to  wave in the direction of the Peters farm.
                        As she entered the door, Kate swept her with a glance.
                    "Have to upset the bowl, as usual?" she said, scathingly.
                        "Just as I think you're going to make something of
                        yourself, and be of some use, you begin mooning in the direction of that
                        big, gangling Hank Peters. Don't you ever let me see you do it
                        again. You are too young to start that kind of foolishness. I bet a cow he
                        was hanging around here, and made you late with dinner."
                    "He was not! He didn't either!" cried Polly, then
                        stopped in dismay, her cheeks burning. She gulped and went on bravely:
                        "That is, he wasn't here, and he didn't make me late, any more than I kept him from
                        his work. He always watches when there are tramps and peddlers on the road,
                        because he knows I'm alone. I knew he would be watching two men who
                        stopped to see you, so I just went as far as the haw tree to tell him I was
                        all right, and we got to talking"
                    If only Kate had been looking at Polly then! But she was putting the apple
                        butter and cream on the table. As she did so, she thought possibly it was a
                        good idea to have Henry Peters seeing that tramps did not frighten Polly, so
                        she missed dawn on the face of her child, and instead of what might have
                        been, she said: "Well, I must say that is
                        neighbourly of him; but don't you dare let him get any foolish
                        notions in his head. I think Aunt Nancy Ellen will let you stay at her house
                        after this, and go to the Hartley High School in winter, so you can come out
                        of that much better prepared to teach  than I
                        ever was. I had a surprise planned for you tonight, but now I don't
                        know whether you deserve it or not. I'll have to think."
                    Kate did not think at all. After the manner of parents, she said that, but her head was full of something she thought vastly more
                        important just then; of course Polly should have her share in it. Left alone
                        to wash the dishes and cook supper while her mother went to town, it was
                        Polly who did the thinking. She thought entirely too much, thought bitterly,
                        thought disappointedly, and finally thought resentfully, and then alas,
                        Polly thought deceitfully. Her mother had said: "Never let me see
                        you." Very well, she would be extremely careful that she was not seen; but before she slept she rather thought she
                        would find a way to let Henry know how she was being abused, and about that
                        plan to send her away all the long winter to school. She rather thought
                        Henry would have something to say about how his "Little
                        Beautiful" Was being treated. Here Polly looked long and
                        searchingly in the mirror to see if by any chance Henry was mistaken, and
                        she discovered that he was. She stared in amazement at the pink-cheeked,
                        shining eyed girl she saw mirrored. She pulled her hair looser around the
                        temples, and drew her lips over her teeth. Surely Henry was mistaken.
                        "Little Beautiful" was too moderate. She would see that he
                        said "perfectly lovely," the next time, and he did.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    KATE'S HEAVENLY TIME
                    
                    
                        ONE evening Kate and Polly went to the front porch to rest
                        until bedtime and found a shining big new trunk sitting there, with
                        Kate's initials on the end, her name on the check tag, and a key in
                        the lock. They unbuckled the straps, turned the key, and lifted the lid.
                        That trunk contained under-clothing, hose, shoes, two hats, a travelling
                        dress with half a dozen extra waists, and an afternoon and an evening dress,
                        all selected with especial reference to Kate's colouring, and made
                        one size larger than Nancy Ellen wore, which fitted Kate perfectly. There
                        were gloves, a parasol, and a note which read: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        DEAR KATE:
                                    
                                    Here are some clothes. I am going to go North a week after
                                        harvest. You can be spared then as well as not. Come on!
                                        Let's run away and have one good time all by
                                        ourselves. It is my treat from start to finish. The children
                                        can manage the farm perfectly well. Any one of her cousins
                                        will stay with Polly, if she will be lonely. Cut loose and
                                        come on, Kate. I am going. Of course Robert
                                        couldn't be pried away from his precious patients;
                                        we will have to go alone; but we do not care. We like it.
                                        Shall we start about the tenth, on the night train, which
                                        will be cooler?
                                    
                                        NANCY ELLEN.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    "We shall!" said Kate emphatically, when she finished the
                        note. "I haven't cut loose and had a good time since I was
                        married; not for eighteen years. If the children are not big enough to take
                        care of themselves, they never will be. I can go as well as not."
                    She handed the note to Polly, while she shook out dresses and gloated over
                        the contents of the trunk.
                    "Of course you shall go!" shouted Polly as she finished the
                        note, but even as she said it she glanced obliquely up the road and waved a
                        hand behind her mother's back.
                    "Sure you shall go!" cried Adam, when he finished the note,
                        and sat beside the trunk seeing all the pretty things over again.
                        "You just bet you shall go. Polly and I can keep house, fine! We
                        don't need any cousins hanging around. I'll help Polly
                        with her work, and then we'll lock the house and she can come out
                        with me. Sure you go! We'll do all right." Then he glanced
                        obliquely down the road, where a slim little figure in white moved under the
                        cherry trees of the York front yard, aimlessly knocking croquet balls here
                        and there.
                    It was two weeks until time to go, but Kate began taking care of herself at
                        once, solely because she did not want Nancy Ellen to be ashamed of her. She
                        rolled her sleeves down to meet her gloves and used a sunbonnet instead of a
                        sunshade. She washed and brushed her hair with care she had not used in
                        years. By the time the tenth of July came, she was in very presentable
                        condition, while the contents of the trunk did the remainder. As she was
                        getting ready to go, she said to  Polly:
                        "Now do your best while I'm away, and I am sure I can
                        arrange with Nancy Ellen about school this winter. When I get back, the very
                        first thing I shall do will be to go to Hartley and buy some stuff to begin
                        on your clothes. You shall have as nice dresses as the other girls, too.
                        Nancy Ellen will know exactly what to get you."
                    But she never caught a glimpse of Polly's flushed, dissatisfied face
                        or the tightening of her lips that would have suggested to her, had she seen
                        them, that Miss Polly felt perfectly capable of selecting the clothing she
                        was to wear herself. Adam took his mother's trunk to the station in
                        the afternoon. In the evening she held Polly on her knee, while they drove
                        to Dr. Gray's. Kate thought the children would want to wait and see
                        them take the train, but Adam said that would make them very late getting
                        home, they had better leave that to Uncle Robert and go back soon; so very
                        soon they were duly kissed and unduly cautioned; then started back down a
                        side street that would not even take them through the heart of the town.
                        Kate looked after them approvingly: "Pretty good
                        youngsters," she said. "I told them to go and get some ice
                        cream; but you see they are saving the money and heading straight
                        home." She turned to Robert. "Can anything happen to
                        them?" she asked, in evident anxiety.
                    "Rest in peace, Kate," laughed the doctor. "You
                        surely know that those youngsters are going to be eighteen in a few weeks.
                        You've reared them carefully. Nothing can, or will, happen to them,
                        that would not happen  right under your nose
                        if you were at home. They will go from now on according to their
                        inclinations."
                    Kate looked at him sharply. "What do you mean by that?" she
                        demanded.
                    He laughed: "Nothing serious," he said. "Polly is
                        half Bates, so she will marry in a year or two, while Adam is all Bates, so
                        he will remain steady as the Rock of Ages, and strictly on the job. Go have
                        your good time, and if I possibly can, I'll come after
                        you."
                    "You'll do nothing of the kind," said Nancy Ellen,
                        with finality. "You wouldn't leave your patients, and you
                        couldn't leave dear Mrs. Southey."
                    "If you feel that way about it, why do you leave me?" he
                        asked.
                    "To show the little fool I'm not afraid of her, for one
                        thing," said Nancy Ellen with her head high. She was very beautiful
                        in her smart travelling dress, while her eyes flashed as she spoke. The
                        doctor looked at her approvingly.
                    "Good!" he cried. "I like a plucky woman! Go to
                        have a good time, Nancy Ellen; but don't go for that. I do wish you
                        would believe that there isn't a thing the matter with the little
                        woman, she's"
                    "I can go even farther than that," said Nancy Ellen, dryly.
                        "I know 'there isn't a thing
                        the matter with the little woman,' except that she wants you to
                        look as if you were running after her. I'd be safe in wagering a
                        thousand dollars that when she hears I'm gone, she will send for
                        you before to-morrow evening."
                    
                    "You may also wager this," he said. "If she does,
                        I shall be very sorry, but I'm on my way to the country on an
                        emergency call. Nancy Ellen, I wish you wouldn't!"
                    "Wouldn't go North, or wouldn't see what every
                        other living soul in Hartley sees?" she asked curtly Then she
                        stepped inside to put on her hat and gloves.
                    Kate looked at the doctor in dismay. "Oh, Robert!" she
                        said.
                    "I give you my word of honour, Kate," he said. "If
                        Nancy Ellen only would be reasonable, the woman would see shortly that my
                        wife is all the world to me. I never have been, and never shall be, untrue
                        to her. Does that satisfy you?"
                    "Of course," said Kate. "I'll do all in
                        my power to talk Nancy Ellen out of that, on this trip. Oh, if she only had
                        children to occupy her time!"
                    "That's the whole trouble in a nutshell," said the
                        doctor; "but you know there isn't a scarcity of children
                        in the world. Never a day passes but I see half a dozen who need me, sorely.
                        But with Nancy Ellen, no child will do unless she mothers
                        it, and unfortunately, none comes to her."
                    "Too bad!" said Kate. "I'm so
                        sorry!"
                    "Cheer her up, if you can," said the doctor.
                    An hour later they were speeding north, Nancy Ellen moody and distraught,
                        Kate as frankly delighted as any child. The spring work was over; the crops
                        were fine; Adam would surely have the premium wheat to take to the County
                        Fair in September; he would work  unceasingly
                        for his chance with corn; he and Polly would be all right; she could see
                        Polly waiting in the stable yard while Adam unharnessed and turned out the
                        horse.
                    Kate kept watching Nancy Ellen's discontented face. At last she
                        said: "Cheer up, child! There isn't a word of truth in
                        it!"
                    "I know it," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "Then why take the way of all the world to start, and keep people talking?" asked Kate.
                    "I'm not doing a thing on earth but attending strictly to
                        my own business," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "That's exactly the trouble," said Kate.
                        "You're not. You let the little heifer have things all her
                        own way. If it were my man, and I loved him as you do Robert Gray, you can
                        stake your life I should be doing something, several things, in
                        fact."
                    "This is interesting," said Nancy Ellen. "For
                        example?"
                    Kate had not given such a matter a thought. She looked from the window a
                        minute, her lips firmly compressed. Then she spoke slowly: "Well,
                        for one thing, I should become that woman's bosom companion. About
                        seven times a week I should uncover her most aggravating weakness all
                        unintentionally before the man in the case, at the same time keeping myself,
                        strictly myself. I should keep steadily on doing and being what he first
                        fell in love with. Lastly, since eighteen years have brought you no
                        fulfillment of the desire of your heart, I should give it up, and content
                        myself and delight him by taking  into my
                        heart and home a couple of the most attractive tiny babies I could find. Two
                        are scarcely more trouble than one; you can have all the help you will
                        accept; the children would never know the difference, if you took them as
                        babies, and soon you wouldn't either; while Robert would be
                        delighted. If I were you, I'd give myself something to work for
                        besides myself, and I'd give him so much to think about at home,
                        that charming young grass widows could go to grass!"
                    "I believe you would," said Nancy Ellen, wonderingly.
                        "I believe you would!"
                    "You're mighty right, I would," said Kate.
                        "If I were married to a man like Robert Gray, I'd fight
                        tooth and nail before I'd let him fall below his high ideals.
                        It's as much your job to keep him up, as it is his to keep himself.
                        If God didn't make him a father, I would, and I'd keep him
                            busy on the job, if I had to adopt sixteen."
                    Nancy Ellen laughed, as they went to their berths. The next morning they
                        awakened in cool Michigan country and went speeding north among evergreen
                        forests and clear lakes mirroring the pointed forest tops and blue sky, past
                        slashing, splashing streams, in which they could almost see the speckled
                        trout darting over the beds of white sand. By late afternoon they had
                        reached their destination and were in their rooms, bathed, dressed, and
                        ready for the dinner hour. In the evening they went walking, coming back to
                        the hotel tired and happy. After several days they began talking to people
                        and  making friends, going out in fishing and
                        boating parties in the morning, driving or boating in the afternoon, and
                        attending concerts or dances at night. Kate did not dance, but she loved to
                        see Nancy Ellen when she had a sufficiently tall, graceful partner; while,
                        as she watched the young people and thought how innocent and happy they
                        seemed, she asked her sister if they could not possibly arrange for Adam and
                        Polly to go to Hartley a night or two a week that winter, and join the
                        dancing class. Nancy Ellen was frankly delighted, so Kate cautiously skirted
                        the school question in such a manner that she soon had Nancy Ellen asking if
                        it could not be arranged. When that was decided, Nancy Ellen went to dance,
                        while Kate stood on the veranda watching her. The lights from the window
                        fell strongly on Kate. She was wearing her evening dress of smoky gray, soft
                        fabric, over shining silk, with knots of dull blue velvet and gold lace here
                        and there. She had dressed her hair carefully; she appeared what she was, a
                        splendid specimen of healthy, vigorous, clean womanhood.
                    "Pardon me, Mrs. Holt," said a voice at her elbow,
                        "but there's only one head in this world like yours, so
                        this, of course, must be you."
                    Kate's heart leaped and stood still. She turned slowly, then held
                        out her hand, smiling at John Jardine, but saying not a word. He took the
                        hand, and as he gripped it tightly he studied her frankly.
                    "Thank God for this!" he said, fervently. "For
                        years I've dreamed of you and hungered for the sight of your  face; but you cut me off squarely, so I dared
                        not intrude on youonly the Lord knows how delighted I am to see you here,
                        looking like this."
                    Kate smiled again.
                    "Come away," he begged. "Come out of this. Come
                        walk a little way with me, and tell me who you are, and
                            how you are, and all the things I think of every day
                        of my life, and now I must know. It's brigandage! Come, or I shall
                        carry you!"
                    "Pooh! You couldn't!" laughed Kate. "Of
                        course I'll come! And I don't own a secret. Ask anything
                        you want to know. How good it is to see you! Your mother?"
                    "At rest, years ago," he said. "She never forgave
                        me for what I did, in the way I did it. She said it would bring disaster,
                        and she was right. I thought it was not fair and honest not to let you know
                        the worst. I thought I was too old, and too busy, and too flourishing, to
                        repair neglected years at that date, but believe me, Kate, you waked me up.
                        Try the hardest one you know, and if I can't spell it,
                        I'll pay a thousand to your pet charity."
                    Kate laughed spontaneously. "Are you in earnest?" she
                        asked.
                    "I am incomprehensibly, immeasurably in earnest," he said,
                        guiding her down a narrow path to a shrub-enclosed, railed-in platform,
                        built on the steep side of a high hill, where they faced the moon-whitened
                        waves, rolling softly in a dancing procession across the face of the great
                        inland sea. Here he found a seat.
                    
                    "I've nothing to tell," he said. "I lost
                        Mother, so I went on without her. I learned to spell, and a great many
                        others things, and I'm still making money. I never forget you for a
                        day; I never have loved and never shall love any other woman.
                        That's all about me, in a nutshell; now go on and tell me a volume,
                        tell me all night, about you. Heavens, woman, I wish you could see yourself,
                        in that dress with the moon on your hair. Kate, you are the superbest thing!
                        I always shall be mad about you. Oh, if only you could have had a little
                        patience with me. I thought I couldn't learn, but
                        of course I could. But, proceed! I mustn't let
                        myself go."
                    Kate leaned back and looked a long time at the shining white waves and the
                        deep blue sky, then she turned to John Jardine, and began to talk. She told
                        him simply a few of the most presentable details of her life: how she had
                        lost her money, then had been given her mother's farm, about the
                        children, and how she now lived. He listened with deep interest, often
                        interrupting to ask a question, and when she ceased talking he said half
                        under his breath: "And you're now free! Oh, the wonder of
                        it! You're now, free!"
                    Kate had that night to think about the remainder of her life. She always
                        sincerely hoped that the moonlight did not bewitch her into leading the man
                        beside her into saying things he seemed to take delight in saying.
                    She had no idea what time it was; in fact, she did not care even what Nancy
                        Ellen thought or whether she would worry. The night was wonderful; John
                        Jardine  had now made a man of himself worthy
                        of all consideration; being made love to by him was enchanting. She had been
                        occupied with the stern business of daily bread for so long that to be again
                        clothed as other women and frankly adored by such a man as John Jardine was
                        soul satisfying. What did she care who worried or what time it was?
                    "But I'm keeping you here until you will be wet with these
                        mists," John Jardine cried at last. "Forgive me, Kate, I
                        never did have any sense where you were concerned! I'll take you
                        back now, but you must promise me to meet me here in the morning, say at ten
                        o'clock. I'll take you back now, if you'll agree
                        to that."
                    "There's no reason why I shouldn't," said
                        Kate.
                    "And you're free, free!" he repeated.
                    The veranda, halls, and ballroom were deserted when they returned to the
                        hotel. As Kate entered her room, Nancy Ellen sat up in bed and stared at her
                        sleepily, but she was laughing in high good humour. She drew her watch from
                        under her pillow and looked at it.
                    "Goodness gracious, Miss!" she cried. "Do you know
                        it's almost three o'clock?"
                    "I don't care in the least," said Kate,
                        "if it's four or five. I've had a perfectly
                        heavenly time. Don't talk to me. I'll put out the light
                        and be quiet as soon as I get my dress off. I think likely I've
                        ruined it."
                    "What's the difference?" demanded Nancy Ellen,
                        largely. "You can ruin half a dozen a day now, if you want
                        to."
                    "What do you mean?" asked Kate.
                    
                    "'Mean?'" laughed Nancy Ellen.
                        "I mean that I saw John Jardine or his ghost come up to you on the
                        veranda, looking as if he'd eat you alive, and carry you away about
                        nine o'clock, and you've been gone six hours and come back
                        having had a 'perfectly heavenly time.' What should I
                        mean! Go up head, Kate! You have earned your right to a good time. It
                        isn't everybody who gets a second chance in this world. Tell me one
                        thing, and I'll go to sleep in peace and leave you to moon the
                        remainder of the night, if you like. Did he say he still loved
                        you?"
                    "Still and yet," laughed Kate. "As I remember, his
                        exact words were that he 'never had loved and never would love any
                        other woman.' Now are you satisfied?"
                    Nancy Ellen sprang from the bed and ran to Kate, gathering her in her strong
                        arms. She hugged and kissed her ecstatically. "Good! Good! Oh, you
                        darling!" she cried. "There'll be nothing in the
                        world you can't have! I just know he has gone on making money; he
                        was crazy about you. Oh, Kate, this is too good! How did I ever think of
                        coming here, and why didn't I think of it seven years ago? Kate,
                        you must promise me you'll marry him, before I let you
                        go."
                    "I'll promise to think about
                        it," said Kate, trying to free herself, for despite the
                        circumstance and the hour, her mind flew back to a thousand times when only
                        one kind word from Nancy Ellen would have saved her endless pain. It was
                        endless, for it was burning in her heart that instant. At the prospect of
                        wealth, position, and  power, Nancy Ellen
                        could smother her with caresses; but poverty, pain, and disgrace she had
                        endured alone.
                    "I shan't let you go till you promise," threatened
                        Nancy Ellen. "When are you to see him again?"
                    "Ten, this morning," said Kate. "You better let me
                        get to bed, or I'll look a sight."
                    "Then promise," said Nancy Ellen.
                    Kate laid firm hands on the encircling arms. "Now, look
                        here," she said, shortly, "it's about time to
                        stop this nonsense. There's nothing I can promise you. I must have
                        time to think. I've got not only myself, but the children to think
                        for. And I've only got till ten o'clock, so I better get
                        at it."
                    Kate's tone made Nancy Ellen step back.
                    "Kate, you haven't still got that letter in your mind, have
                        you?" she demanded.
                    "No!" laughed Kate, "I haven't! He
                        offered me a thousand dollars if I could pronounce him a word he
                        couldn't spell; and it's perfectly evident he's
                        studied until he is exactly like anybody else. No, it's not
                        that!"
                    "Then what is it? Simpleton, there was nothing
                        else!" cried Nancy Ellen.
                    "Not so much at that time; but this is nearly twenty years later,
                        and I have the fate of my children in my hands. I wish you'd go to
                        bed and let me think!" said Kate.
                    "Yes, and the longer you think the crazier you will act,"
                        cried Nancy Ellen. "I know you! You better promise me now, and
                        stick to it."
                    For answer Kate turned off the light; but she did not  go to bed. She sat beside the window and she was still sitting
                        there when dawn crept across the lake and began to lighten the room. Then
                        she stretched herself beside Nancy Ellen, who roused and looked at her.
                    "You just coming to bed?" she cried in wonder.
                    "At least you can't complain that I didn't
                        think," said Kate, but Nancy Ellen found no comfort in what she
                        said, or the way she said it. In fact, she arose when Kate did, feeling
                        distinctly sulky. As they returned to their room from breakfast, Kate laid
                        out her hat and gloves and began to get ready to keep her appointment. Nancy
                        Ellen could endure the suspense no longer.
                    "Kate," she said in her gentlest tones, "if you
                        have no mercy on yourself, have some on your children. You've no
                        right, positively no right, to take such a chance away from them."
                    "Chance for what?" asked Kate tersely.
                    "Education, travel, leisure, every opportunity in the
                        world," enumerated Nancy Ellen.
                    Kate was handling her gloves, her forehead wrinkled, her eyes narrowed in
                        concentration.
                    "That is one side of it," she said. "The other is
                        that neither my children nor I have in our blood, breeding, or mental
                        cosmos, the background that it takes to make one happy with money in
                        unlimited quantities. So far as I'm concerned personally,
                        I'm happier this minute as I am, than John Jardine's money
                        ever could make me. I had a fierce struggle with that question long ago;
                        since I have had nearly eight years of life I love, that is good for my  soul, the struggle to leave it would be
                        greater now. Polly would be happier and get more from life as the wife of
                        big gangling Henry Peters, than she would as a millionaire's
                        daughter. She'd be very suitable in a farmhouse parlour;
                        she'd be a ridiculous little figure at a ball. As for Adam,
                        he'd turn this down quick and hard."
                    "Just you try him!" cried Nancy Ellen.
                    "For one thing, he won't be here at ten
                        o'clock," said Kate, "and for another, since it
                        involves my becoming the wife of John Jardine, it isn't for Adam to
                        decide. This decision is strictly my own. I merely mention the children,
                        because if I married him, it would have an inevitable influence on their
                        lives, an influence that I don't in the least covet either for them
                        or for myself. Nancy Ellen, can't you remotely conceive of such a
                        thing as one human being in the world who is satisfied that he
                            has his share, and who believes to the depths of his soul that no
                        man should be allowed to amass, and to use for his personal indulgence, the
                        amount of money that John Jardine does?"
                    "Yes, I can," cried Nancy Ellen, "when I see you,
                        and the way you act! You have chance after chance, but you seem to think
                        that life requires of you a steady job of holding your nose to the
                        grindstone. It was rather stubby to begin with, go on and grind it clear off
                        your face, if you like."
                    "All right," said Kate. "Then I'll tell
                        you definitely that I have no particular desire to marry anybody; I like my
                        life immensely as I'm living it. I'm free, independent,
                        and my children are in the element to which they were born, and where they
                        can live naturally, and spend  their lives
                        helping in the great work of feeding, clothing, and housing their fellow
                        men. I've no desire to leave my job or take them from theirs, to
                        start a lazy, shiftless life of self-indulgence. I don't meddle
                        much with the Bible, but I have a profound belief in it,
                        and a large respect for it, as the greatest book in the
                        world, and it says: 'By the sweat of his brow shall man earn his
                        bread,' or words to that effect. I was born a sweater, I shall just
                        go on sweating until I die; I refuse to begin perspiring at my time of
                        life."
                    "You big fool!" cried Nancy Ellen.
                    "Look out! You're 'in danger of Hell
                        fire,' when you call me that!" warned Kate.
                    "Fire away?" cried Nancy Ellen, with tears in her eyes and
                        voice. "When I think what you've gone through"
                    Kate stared at her fixedly. "What do you know about what
                        I've gone through?" she demanded in a cold, even voice.
                        "Personally, I think you're not qualified to mention that subject; you better let it rest. Whatever it has
                        been, it's been of such a nature that I have come out of it knowing
                        when I have my share and when I'm well off, for me. If John Jardine
                        wants to marry me, and will sell all he has, and come and work on the farm
                        with me, I'll consider marrying him. To leave my life and what I
                        love to go to Chicago with him, I do not feel called on, or inclined to do.
                        No, I'll not marry him, and in about fifteen minutes I'll
                        tell him so."
                    "And go on making a mess of your life such as you did for
                        years," said Nancy Ellen, drying her red eyes.
                    
                    "At least it was my life," said Kate. "I
                        didn't mess things for any one else."
                    "Except your children," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "As you will," said Kate, rising. "I'll
                        not marry John Jardine; and the sooner I tell him so and get it over, the
                        better. Good-bye. I'll be back in half an hour."
                    Kate walked slowly to the observation platform, where she had been the
                        previous evening with John Jardine; and leaning on the railing, she stood
                        looking out over the water, and down the steep declivity, thinking how best
                        she could word what she had to say. She was so absorbed she did not hear
                        steps behind her or turn until a sharp voice said: "You
                        needn't wait any longer. He's not coming!"
                    Kate turned and glanced at the speaker, and then around to make sure she was
                        the person being addressed. She could see no one else. The woman was small,
                        light haired, her face enamelled, dressed beyond all reason, and in a manner
                        wholly out of place for morning at a summer resort in Michigan.
                    "If you are speaking to me, will you kindly tell me to whom you
                        refer, and give me the message you bring?" said Kate.
                    "I refer to Mr. John Jardine, Mrs. Holt," said the little
                        woman and then Kate saw that she was shaking, and gripping her hands for
                        self-control.
                    "Very well," said Kate. "It will save me an
                        unpleasant task if he doesn't come. Thank you," and she
                        turned back to the water.
                    
                    "You certainly didn't find anything unpleasant about being
                        with him half last night," said the little woman.
                    Kate turned again, and looked narrowly at the speaker. Then she laughed
                        heartily. "Well done, Jennie!" she cried. "Why,
                        you are such a fashionable lady, such a Dolly Varden, I never saw who you
                        were. How do you do? Won't you sit down and have a chat?
                        It's just dawning on me that very possibly, from your dress and
                        manner, I should have called you Mrs. Jardine."
                    "Didn't he tell you?" cried Jennie.
                    "He did not," said Kate. "Your name was not
                        mentioned. He said no word about being married."
                    "We have been married since a few weeks after Mrs. Jardine died. I
                        taught him the things you turned him down for not knowing; I have studied
                        him, and waited on him, and borne his children, and this
                        is my reward. What are you going to do?"
                    "Go back to the hotel, when I finish with this view," said
                        Kate. "I find it almost as attractive by day as it was by
                        night."
                    "Brazen!" cried Mrs. Jardine.
                    "Choose your words carefully," said Kate. "I was
                        here first; since you have delivered your message, suppose you go and leave
                        me to my view."
                    "Not till I get ready," said Mrs. Jardine.
                        "Perhaps it will help you to know that I was not twenty feet from
                        you at any time last night; and that I stood where I could have touched you,
                        while my husband made love to you for hours."
                    "So?" said Kate. "I'm not at all
                        surprised. That's  exactly what I
                        should have expected of you. But doesn't it clarify the situation
                        any, at least for me, when I tell you that Mr. Jardine gave me no faintest
                        hint that he was married? If you heard all we said, you surely remember that
                        you were not mentioned?"
                    Mrs. Jardine sat down suddenly and gripped her little hands. Kate studied her
                        intently. She wondered what she would look like when her hair was being
                        washed; at this thought she smiled broadly. That made the other woman
                        frantic.
                    "You can well laugh at me," she said.
                        "I made the banner fool of the ages of myself when I schemed to
                        marry him. I knew he loved you. He told me so. He told me, just as he told
                        you last night, that he never had loved any other woman and he never would.
                        I thought he didn't know himself as I knew him. He was so grand to
                        his mother, I thought if I taught him, and helped him back to self-respect,
                        and gave him children, he must, and would love me. Well, I was mistaken. He
                        does not, and never will. Every day he thinks of you; not a night but he
                        speaks your name. He thinks all things can be done with money
                    "So do you, Jennie," interrupted Kate. "Well,
                        I'll show you that this can't!"
                    "Didn't you hear him exulting because you are now
                        free?" cried Jennie. "He thinks he will give me a home,
                        the children, a big income; then secure his freedom and marry you."
                    "Oh, don't talk such rot!" cried Kate.
                        "John Jardine  thinks no such thing.
                        He wouldn't insult me by thinking I thought such a thing. That
                        thought belongs where it sprang from, right in your little cramped, blonde
                        brain, Jennie."
                    "You wouldn't? Are you sure you
                        wouldn't?" cried Jennie, leaning forward with hands
                        clutched closely.
                    "I should say not!" said Kate. "The last thing on
                        earth I want is some other woman's husband. Now look here, Jennie,
                        I'll tell you the plain truth. I thought last night that John
                        Jardine was as free as I was; or I shouldn't have been here with
                        him. I thought he was asking me again to marry him, and I was not asleep
                        last night, thinking it over. I came here to tell him that I would not. Does
                        that satisfy you?"
                    "Satisfy?" cried Jennie. "I hope no other woman
                        lives in the kind of Hell I do."
                    "It's always the way," said Kate, "when
                        people will insist on getting out of their class. You would have gotten ten
                        times more from life as the wife of a village merchant, or a farmer, than
                        you have as the wife of a rich man. Since you're married to him,
                        and there are children, there's nothing for you to do but finish
                        your job as best you can. Rest your head easy about me. I wouldn't
                        touch John Jardine married to you; I wouldn't touch him with a
                        ten-foot pole, divorced from you. Get that clear in your head, and do please
                        go!"
                    Kate turned again to the water, but when she was sure Jennie was far away she
                        sat down suddenly and asked of the lake: "Well, wouldn't
                        that freeze you?"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    POLLY TRIES HER WINGS
                    
                    
                        FINALLY Kate wandered back to the hotel and went to their
                        room to learn if Nancy Ellen was there. She was and seemed very much
                        perturbed. The first thing she did was to hand Kate a big white envelope,
                        which she opened and found to be a few lines from John Jardine, explaining
                        that he had been unexpectedly called away on some very important business.
                        He reiterated his delight in having seen her, and hoped for the same
                        pleasure at no very distant date. Kate read it and tossed it on the dresser.
                        As she did so, she saw a telegram, lying opened among Nancy Ellen's
                        toilet articles, and thought with pleasure that Robert was coming. She
                        glanced at her sister for confirmation, and saw that she was staring from
                        the window as if she were in doubt about something. Kate thought probably
                        she was still upset about John Jardine, and that might as well be gotten
                        over, so she said: "That note was not delivered promptly. It is
                        from John Jardine. I should have had it before I left. He was called away on
                        important business and wrote it to let me know he would not be able to keep
                        his appointment; but without his knowledge, he had a representative on the
                        spot."
                    
                    Nancy Ellen seemed interested so Kate proceeded: "You
                        couldn't guess in a thousand years. I'll have to tell you
                        spang! It was his wife."
                    "His wife!" cried Nancy Ellen. "But you
                        said"
                    "So I did," said Kate. "And so he did. Since the
                        wife loomed on the horizon, I remembered that he said no word to me of
                        marriage; he merely said he always had loved me and always would"
                    "Merely?" scoffed Nancy Ellen. "Merely!"
                    "Just 'merely,'" said Kate. "He
                        didn't lay a finger on me; he didn't ask me to marry him;
                        he just merely met me after a long separation, and told me that he still
                        loved me."
                    "The brute!" said Nancy Ellen. "He should be
                        killed."
                    "I can't see it," said Kate. "He did
                        nothing ungentlemanly. If we jumped to wrong conclusions that was not his
                        fault. I doubt if he remembered or thought at all of his marriage. It
                        wouldn't be much to forget. I am fresh from an interview with his
                        wife. She's an old acquaintance of mine. I once secured her for his
                        mother's maid. You've heard me speak of her."
                    "Impossible! John Jardine would not do that!" cried Nancy
                        Ellen.
                    "There's a family to prove it," said Kate.
                        "Jennie admits that she studied him, taught him, made herself
                        indispensable to him, and a few weeks after his mother's passing,
                        married him, after he had told her he did not love her and never could. I
                        feel sorry for him."
                    
                    "Sure! Poor defrauded creature!" said Nancy Ellen.
                        "What about her?"
                    "Nothing, so far as I can see," said Kate. "By her
                        own account she was responsible. She should have kept in her own
                        class."
                    "All right. That settles Jennie!" said Nancy Ellen.
                        "I saw you noticed the telegram from Robertnow go on and settle
                        me!"
                    "Is he coming?" asked Kate.
                    "No, he's not coming," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "Has he eloped with the widder?" Kate asked flippantly.
                    "He merely telegraphs that he thinks it would be wise for us to come
                        home on the first train," said Nancy Ellen. "For all I can
                        make of that, the elopement might quite as well be in your family as
                        mine."
                    Kate held out her hand, Nancy Ellen laid the message in it. Kate studied it
                        carefully; then she raised steady eyes to her sister's face.
                    "Do you know what I should do about this?" she asked.
                    "Catch the first train, of course," she said.
                    "Far be it from me," said Kate. "I should at once
                        telegraph him that his message was not clear, to kindly particularize.
                        We've only got settled. We're having a fine time;
                        especially right now. Why should we pack up and go home? I can't
                        think of any possibility that could arise that would make it necessary for
                        him to send for us. Can you?"
                    
                    "I can think of two things," said Nancy Ellen. "I
                        can think of a very pretty, confiding, little cat of a woman, who is
                        desperately infatuated with my husband; and I can think of two children
                        fathered by George Holt, who might possibly, just possibly, have enough of
                        his blood in their veins to be like him, given opportunity. Alone for a
                        week, there is barely a faint possibility that you might be needed. Alone for the same week, there is the
                        faintest possibility that Robert is in a situation where I
                        could help him."
                    Kate drew a deep breath.
                    "Isn't life the most amusing thing?" she asked.
                        "I had almost forgotten my wings. I guess we'd better take
                        them, and fly straight home."
                    She arose and called the office to learn about trains, and then began packing
                        her trunk. As she folded her dresses and stuffed them in rather carelessly
                        she said: "I don't know why I got it into my head that I
                        could go away and have a few days of a good time without something happening
                        at home."
                    "But you are not sure anything has happened at home. This call may
                        be for me," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "It may, but this is July," said Kate.
                        "I've been thinking hard and fast. It's probable
                        I can put my finger on the spot."
                    Nancy Ellen paused and standing erect she looked questioningly at Kate.
                    "The weak link in my chain at the present minute is Polly,"
                        said Kate. "I didn't pay much attention at  the time, because there wasn't
                        enough of it really to attract attention; but since I think, I can recall
                        signs of growing discontent in Polly, lately. She fussed about the work, and
                        resented being left in the house while I went to the fields, and she had
                        begun looking up the road to Peters' so much that her head was
                        slightly turned toward the north most of the time. With me away"
                    "What do you think?" demanded Nancy Ellen.
                    "Think very likely she has decided that she'll sacrifice
                        her chance for more schooling and to teach, for the sake of marrying a big,
                        green country boy named Hank Peters," said Kate.
                    "Thereby keeping in her own class," suggested Nancy Ellen.
                    Kate laughed shortly. "Exactly!" she said. "I
                        didn't aspire to anything different for her from what she has had;
                        but I wanted her to have more education, and wait until she was older.
                        Marriage is too hard work for a girl to begin at less than eighteen. If it
                        is Polly, and she has gone away with Hank Peters, they've no place
                        to go but his home; and if ever she thought I worked her too hard,
                        she'll find out she has played most of her life, when she begins
                        taking orders from Mrs. Amanda Peters. You know her! She never can keep a
                        girl more than a week, and she's always wanting one. If Polly has
                        tackled that job, God help her."
                    "Cheer up! We're in that delightful state of uncertainty
                        where Polly may be blacking the cook stove, 
                        like a dutiful daughter; while Robert has decided that he'd like a
                        divorce," said Nancy Ellen.
                    "Nancy Ellen, there's nothing in that, so far as Robert, is
                        concerned. He told me so the evening we came away," said Kate.
                    Nancy Ellen banged down a trunk lid and said: "Well, I am getting to
                        the place where I don't much care whether there is or there is
                        not."
                    "What a whopper!" laughed Kate. "But cheer up.
                        This is my trouble. I feel it in my bones. Wish I knew for sure. If
                        she's eloped, and it's all over with, we might as well
                        stay and finish our visit. If she's married, I can't
                        unmarry her, and I wouldn't if I could."
                    "How are you going to apply your philosophy to yourself?"
                        asked Nancy Ellen.
                    "By letting time and Polly take their course," said Kate.
                        "This is a place where parents are of no account whatever. They
                        stand back until it's time to clean up the wreck, and then they get
                        theirsusually theirs, and several of someone's else, in the
                        bargain."
                    As the train stopped at Hartley, Kate sat where she could see Robert on the
                        platform. It was only a fleeting glance, but she thought she had never seen
                        him look so wholesome, so vital, so much a man to be desired.
                    "No wonder a woman lacking in fine scruples would covet
                        him," thought Kate. To Nancy Ellen she said hastily: "The
                        trouble's mine. Robert's on the platform."
                    
                    "Where?" demanded Nancy Ellen, peering from the window.
                    Kate smiled as she walked from the car and confronted Robert.
                    "Get it over quickly," she said. "It's
                        Polly?"
                    He nodded.
                    "Did she remember to call on the Squire?" she asked.
                    "Oh, yes," said Robert. "It was at
                        Peters', and they had the whole neighbourhood in."
                    Kate swayed slightly, then lifted her head, her eyes blazing. She had come,
                        feeling not altogether guiltless, and quite prepared to overlook a youthful
                        elopement. The insult of having her only daughter given a wedding at the
                        home of the groom, about which the whole neighbourhood would be laughing at
                        her, was a different matter. Slowly the high colour faded from
                        Kate's face, as she stepped back. "Excuse me, Nancy
                        Ellen," she said. "I didn't mean to deprive you
                        of the chance of even speaking to Robert. I knew this was
                        for me; I was over-anxious to learn what choice morsel life had in store for
                        me now. It's one that will be bitter on my tongue to the day of my
                        death."
                    "Oh, Kate, I am so sorry that if this had to happen, it happened in
                        just that way," said Nancy Ellen, "but don't
                        mind. They're only foolish kids!"
                    "Who? Mr. and Mrs. Peters, and the neighbours, who attended the
                        wedding! Foolish kids? Oh, no!" said Kate.
                        "Where's Adam?"
                    "I told him I'd bring you out," said Robert.
                    
                    "Why didn't he send for you, or do something?"
                        demanded Kate.
                    "I'm afraid the facts are that Polly lied to him,"
                        said Robert. "She told him that Peters were having a party, and
                        Mrs. Peters wanted her to come early and help her with the supper. They had
                        the Magistrate out from town and had the ceremony an hour before Adam got
                        there. When he arrived, and found out what had happened, he told Polly and
                        the Peters family exactly his opinion of them; and then he went home and
                        turned on all the lights, and sat where he could be seen on the porch all
                        evening, as a protest in evidence of his disapproval, I take it."
                    Slowly the colour began to creep back into Kate's face.
                        "The good boy!" she said, in commendation.
                    "He called me at once, and we talked it over and I sent you the
                        telegram; but as he said, it was done; there was no use trying to undo it.
                        One thing will be a comfort to you. All of your family, and almost all of
                        your friends, left as soon as Adam spoke his piece, and they found it was a
                        wedding and not a party to which they'd been invited. It was a
                        shabby trick of Peters."
                    Kate assented. "It was because I felt instinctively that Mrs. Peters
                        had it in her to do tricks like that, that I never would have anything to do
                        with her," said Kate, "more than to be passing civil. This
                        is how she gets her revenge, and her hired girl, for no wages, I'll
                        be bound! It's a shabby trick. I'm glad Adam saved me the
                        trouble of telling her so."
                    
                    Robert took Nancy Ellen home, and then drove to Bates Corners with Kate.
                    "In a few days now I hope we can see each other oftener,"
                        he said, on the way. "I got a car yesterday, and it
                        doesn't seem so complicated. Any intelligent person can learn to
                        drive in a short time. I like it so much, and I knew I'd have such
                        constant use for it thatnow this is a secretI ordered another for Nancy
                        Ellen, so she can drive about town, and run out here as she chooses. Will
                        she be pleased?"
                    "She'll be overjoyed! That was dear of you, Robert. Only
                        one thing in the world would please her more," said Kate.
                    "What's that?" asked Robert.
                    Kate looked him in the eye, and smiled.
                    "Oh," he said. "But there is nothing in
                        it!"
                    "Except talk, that worries and humiliates Nancy
                        Ellen," said Kate.
                    "Kate," he said suddenly, "if you were in my
                        shoes, what would you do?"
                    "The next time I got a phone call, or a note from Mrs. Southey, and
                        she was having one of those terrible headaches, I should say:
                        'I'm dreadfully sorry, Mrs. Southey, but a breath of talk
                        that might be unpleasant for you, and for my wife, has come to my ear, so I
                        know you'll think it wiser to call Dr. Mills, who can serve you
                        better than I. In a great rush this afternoon. Good-bye!' That is what I should do, Robert, and I should do it
                        quickly, and emphatically. Then I should interest Nancy  Ellen in her car for a time, and then I should keep my eyes
                        open, and the first time I found in my practice a sound baby with a clean
                        bill of health, and no encumbrances, I should have it dressed attractively,
                        and bestow it on Nancy Ellen as casually as I did the car. And in the
                        meantime, love her plenty, Robert. You can never know how she feels about this; and it's in no way her fault. She
                        couldn't possibly have known; while you would have married her just
                        the same if you had known. Isn't that so?"
                    "It's quite so. Kate, I think your head is level, and
                        I'll follow your advice to the letter. Now you have
                        'healed my lame leg,' as the dog said in
                        McGuffey's Third, what can I do for this poor
                        dog?"
                    "Nothing," said Kate. "I've got to hold
                        still, and take it. Life will do the doing. I don't want to croak,
                        but remember my word, it will do plenty."
                    "We'll come often," he said as he turned to go
                        back.
                    Kate slowly walked up the path, dreading to meet Adam. He evidently had been
                        watching for her, for he came around the corner of the house, took her arm,
                        and they walked up the steps and into the living room together. She looked
                        at him; he looked at her. At last he said: "I'm afraid
                        that a good deal of this is my fault, Mother."
                    "How so?" asked Kate, tersely.
                    "I guess I betrayed your trust in me," said Adam, heavily.
                        "Of course I did all my work and attended to things; but in the
                        evening after work was over, the very first evening on the way home we
                        stopped to talk to  Henry at the gate, and he
                        got in and came on down. We could see Milly at their gate, and I wanted her,
                        I wanted her so much, Mother; and it was going to be lonesome, so all of us
                        went on there, and she came up here and we sat on the porch, and then I took
                        her home and that left Henry and Polly together. The next night Henry took
                        us to town for a treat, and we were all together, and the next night Milly
                        asked us all there, and so it went. It was all as open and innocent as it
                        could be; only Henry and Polly were in awful earnest I and she was bound she
                        wouldn't be sent to town to school"
                    "Why didn't she tell me so? She never objected a word, to
                        me," said Kate.
                    "Well, Mother, you are so big, and Polly was so little, and she was
                        used to minding"
                    "Yes, this looks like it," said Kate. "Well, go
                        on!"
                    "That's all," said Adam. "It was only
                        that instead of staying at home and attending to our own affairs we were
                        somewhere every night, or Milly and Henry were here. That is where I was to
                        blame. I'm afraid you'll never forgive me, Mother; but I
                        didn't take good care of Sister. I left her to Henry Peters, while
                        I tried to see how nice I could be to Milly. I didn't know what
                        Polly and Henry were planning; honest, I didn't, Mother. I would
                        have told Uncle Robert and sent for you if I had. I thought when I went
                        there it was to be our little crowd like it was at York's. I was
                        furious when I found they were married. I told Mr. and Mrs. Peters what they
                        were, right before  the company, and then I
                        came straight home and all the family, and York's, and most of the
                        others, came straight away. Only a few stayed to the supper. I was so angry
                        with Polly I just pushed her away, and didn't even say good-night
                        to her. The little silly fool! Mother, if she had told you, you would have
                        let her stay at home this winter and got her clothing, and let her be
                        married here, when she was old enough, wouldn't you?"
                    "Certainly!" said Kate. "All the world knows that.
                        Bates all marry; and they all marry young. Don't blame yourself,
                        Adam. If Polly had it in her system to do this, and she did, or she
                        wouldn't have done it, the thing would have happened when I was
                        here, and right under my nose. It was a scheme all planned and ready before
                        I left. I know that now. Let it go! There's nothing we can do,
                        until things begin to go wrong, as they always do in this
                        kind of wedding; then we shall get our call. In the meantime, you
                        mustn't push your sister away. She may need you sooner than
                        you'd think; and will you just please have enough confidence in my
                        common sense and love for you, to come to me, first, when
                        you feel that there's a girl who is indispensable to your future,
                        Adam?"
                    "Yes, I will," said Adam. "And it won't
                        be long, and the girl will be Milly York."
                    "All right," said Kate, gravely, "whenever the
                        time comes, let me know about it. Now see if you can find me something to
                        eat till I lay off my hat and wash. It was a long, hot ride, and
                        I'm tired. Since there's nothing I can  do, I wish I had stayed where I was. No, I
                        don't, either! I see joy coming over the hill for Nancy
                        Ellen."
                    "Why is joy coming to Nancy Ellen?" asked the boy, pausing
                        an instant before he started to the kitchen.
                    "Oh, because she's had such a very rough, uncomfortable
                        time with life," said Kate, "that in the very nature of
                        things joy should come her way."
                    The boy stood mystified until the expression on his face so amused Kate that
                        she began laughing, then he understood.
                    "That's why it's
                        coming," said Kate; "and, here's how it's coming. She is going to get rid of a bothersome
                        worry that's troubling her headand she's going to have a
                        very splendid gift, but it's a deep secret."
                    "Then you'll have to whisper it," said Adam, going
                        to her and holding a convenient ear. Kate rested her hands on his shoulder a
                        minute, as she leaned on him, her face buried in his crisp black hair. Then
                        she whispered the secret.
                    "Crickey, isn't that grand!" cried the boy,
                        backing away to stare at her.
                    "Yes, it is so grand I'm going to try it
                        ourselves," said Kate. "We've a pretty snug
                        balance in the bank, and I think it would be great fun evenings or when we
                        want to go to town in a hurry and the horses are tired."
                    Adam was slowly moving toward the kitchen, his face more of a study than
                        before.
                    "Mother," he said as he reached the door, "I be
                        hanged if I know how to take you! I thought you'd just  raise Cain over what Polly has done; but you
                        act so sane and sensible; someway it doesn't seem so bad as it did,
                        and I feel more sorry for Polly than like going back on her. And are you
                        truly in earnest about a car?"
                    "I'm going to think very seriously about it this winter,
                        and I feel almost sure it will come true by early spring," said
                        Kate. "But who said anything about 'going back on
                        Polly?'"
                    "Oh, Mrs. York and all the neighbours said that you'd never
                        forgive her, and that she'd never darken your door again, and
                        things like that until I was almost crazy," answered Adam.
                    Kate smiled grimly. "Adam," she said, "I had seven
                        years of that 'darken your door' business, myself.
                        It's a mighty cold, hard proposition. It's a wonder the
                        neighbours didn't remember that. Maybe they did, and thought I was
                        so much of a Bates leopard that I couldn't change my spots. If they
                        are watching me, they will find that I am not spotted; I'm sorry
                        and humiliated over what Polly has done; but I'm not going to gnash
                        my teeth, and tear my hair, and wail in public, or in private. I'm
                        trying to keep my real mean spot so deep it can't be seen. If ever
                        I get my chance, Adam, you watch me pay back Mrs. Peters. That is the size and location of my spot; but it's far deeper
                        than my skin. Now go on and find me food, man, food!"
                    Adam sat close while Kate ate her supper, then he helped her unpack her trunk
                        and hang away her dresses, and then they sat on the porch talking for a long
                        time.
                    
                    When at last they arose to go to bed Kate said: "Adam, about Polly:
                        first time you see her, if she asks, tell her she left home of her own free
                        will and accord, and in her own way, which, by the way, happens to be a Holt
                        way; but you needn't mention that. I think by this time she has
                        learned or soon she will learn that; and whenever she wants to come back and
                        face me, to come right ahead. I can stand it if she can. Can you get that
                        straight?"
                    Adam said he could. He got that straight and so much else that by the time he
                        finished, Polly realized that both he and her mother had left her in the
                        house to try to shield her; that if she had told what she
                        wanted in a straightforward manner she might have had a wedding outfit
                        prepared and been married from her home at a proper time and in a proper
                        way, and without putting her mother to shame before the community. Polly was
                        very much ashamed of herself by the time Adam finished. She could not find
                        it in her heart to blame Henry; she knew he was no more to blame than she
                        was; but she did store up a grievance against Mr. and Mrs. Peters. They were
                        older and had had experience with the world; they might have told Polly what
                        she should do instead of having done everything in their power to make her
                        do what she had done, bribing, coaxing, urging, all in the direction of her
                        inclinations.
                    At heart Polly was big enough to admit that she had followed her inclinations
                        without thinking at all what the result would be. Adam never would have done
                        what she  had. Adam would have thought of his
                        mother and his name and his honour. Poor little Polly had to admit that
                        honour with her had always been a matter of, "Now
                        remember," "Be careful," and like caution on the
                        lips of her mother.
                    The more Polly thought, the worse she felt. The worse she felt, the more the
                        whole Peters family tried to comfort her. She was violently homesick in a
                        few days; but Adam had said she was to come when she "could face
                        her mother," and Polly suddenly found that she would rather
                        undertake to run ten miles than to face her mother, so she began a process
                        of hiding from her. If she sat on the porch, and saw her mother coming, she
                        ran in the house. She would go to no public place where she might meet her.
                        For a few weeks she lived a life of working for Mrs. Peters from dawn to
                        dark, under the stimulus of what a sweet girl she was, how splendidly she
                        did things, how fortunate Henry was, interspersed with continual kissing,
                        patting, and petting, all very new and unusual to Polly. By that time she
                        was so very ill, she could not lift her head from the pillow half the day,
                        but it was to the credit of the badly disappointed Peters family that they
                        kept up the petting. When Polly grew better, she had no desire to go
                        anywhere; she worked to make up for the trouble she had been during her
                        illness, to sew every spare moment, and to do her full share of the
                        day's work in the house of an excessively nice woman, whose work
                        never was done, and most hopeless thing of all, never would be. Mrs.
                        Peters' head was full  of things that
                        she meant to do three years in the future. Every night found Polly so tired
                        she staggered to bed early as possible; every morning found her confronting
                        the same round, which from the nature of her condition every morning was
                        more difficult for her.
                    Kate and Adam followed their usual routine with only the alterations required
                        by the absence of Polly. Kate now prepared breakfast while Adam did the
                        feeding and milking; washed the dishes and made the beds while he hitched
                        up; then went to the field with him. On rainy days he swept and she dusted;
                        always they talked over and planned everything they did, in the house or
                        afield; always they schemed, contrived, economized, and worked to attain the
                        shortest, easiest end to any result they strove for. They were growing in
                        physical force, they were efficient, they attended their own affairs
                        strictly. Their work was always done on time, their place in order, their
                        deposits at the bank frequent. As the cold days came they missed Polly, but
                        scarcely ever mentioned her. They had more books and read and studied
                        together, while every few evenings Adam picked up his hat and disappeared,
                        but soon he and Milly came in together. Then they all read, popped corn,
                        made taffy, knitted, often Kate was called away by some sewing or upstairs
                        work she wanted to do, so that the youngsters had plenty of time alone to
                        revel in the wonder of life's greatest secret.
                    To Kate's ears came the word that Polly would be a mother in the
                        spring, that the Peters family were delighted 
                        and anxious for the child to be a girl, as they found six males sufficient
                        for one family. Polly was looking well, feeling fine, was a famous little
                        worker, and seldom sat on a chair because some member of the Peters family
                        usually held her.
                    "I should think she would get sick of all that mushing."
                        said Adam when he repeated these things.
                    "She's not like us," said Kate.
                        "She'll take all she can get, and call for more.
                        She's a long time coming; but I'm glad she's well
                        and happy."
                    "Buncombe!" said Adam. "She isn't so very
                        well. She's white as putty, and there are great big, dark hollows
                        under her eyes, and she's always panting for breath like she had
                        been running. Nearly every time I pass there I see her out scrubbing the
                        porches, or feeding the chickens, or washing windows, or something. You bet
                        Mrs. Peters has got a fine hired girl now, and she's smiling all
                        over about it."
                    "She really has something to smile about," said Kate.
                    To Polly's ears went the word that Adam and her mother were having a
                        fine time together, always together; and that they had Milly York up three
                        times a week to spend the evening; and that Milly said that it passed her to
                        see why Polly ran away from Mrs. Holt. She was the grandest woman alive, and
                        if she had any running to do in her neighbourhood, she would run to her, and not from her. Whereupon
                        Polly closed her lips firmly and looked black, but not before she had said:
                        "Well, if Mother had done just one night a week of that  entertaining for Henry and me, we
                        wouldn't have run from her, either."
                    Polly said nothing until April, then Kate answered the telephone one day and
                        a few seconds later was ringing for Adam as if she would pull down the bell.
                        He came running and soon was on his way to Peters' with the single
                        buggy, with instructions to drive slowly and carefully and on no account to
                        let Polly slip getting out. The Peters family had all gone to bury an aunt
                        in the neighbourhood, leaving Polly alone for the day; and Polly at once
                        called up her mother, and said she was dying to see her, and if she
                        couldn't come home for the day, she would die soon, and be glad of
                        it. Kate knew the visit should not have been made at that time and in that
                        way; but she knew that Polly was under a dangerous nerve strain; she herself
                        would not go to Peters' in Mrs. Peters' absence; she did
                        not know what else to do. As she waited for Polly she thought of many things
                        she would say; when she saw her, she took her in her arms and almost carried
                        her into the house, and she said nothing at all, save how glad she was to
                        see her, and she did nothing at all, except to try with all her might to
                        comfort and please her, for to Kate, Polly did not seem like a strong,
                        healthy girl approaching maternity. She appeared like a very sick woman, who
                        sorely needed attention, while a few questions made her so sure of it that
                        she at once called Robert. He gave both of them all the comfort he could,
                        but what he told Nancy Ellen was: "Polly has had no attention
                        whatever. She wants me,  and I'll
                        have to go; but it's a case I'd like to side-step.
                            -l do all I can, but the time is short."
                    "Oh, Lord!" said Nancy Ellen. "Is it one more for
                        ate?"
                    "Yes," said Robert, "I am very much afraid
                        it's 'one ore for Kate.'"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    ONE MORE FOR KATE
                    
                    
                        POLLY and Kate had a long day together, while Adam was
                        about the house much of the time. Both of them said and did everything they
                        could think of to cheer and comfort Polly, whose spirits seemed most
                        variable. One minute she would be laughing and planning for the summer
                        gaily, the next she would be gloomy and depressed, and declaring she never
                        would live through the birth of her baby. If she had appeared well, this
                        would not have worried Kate; but she looked even sicker than she seemed to
                        feel. She was thin while her hands were hot and tremulous. As the afternoon
                        went on and time to go came nearer, she grew more and more despondent, until
                        Kate proposed watching when the Peters family came home, calling them up,
                        and telling them that Polly was there, would remain all night, and that
                        Henry should come down.
                    Polly flatly vetoed the proposition, but she seemed to feel much better after
                        it had been made. She was like herself again for a short time, and then she
                        turned to Kate and said suddenly: "Mother, if I don't get
                        over this, will you take my baby?"
                    Kate looked at Polly intently. What she saw stopped  the ready answer that was on her lips. She stood thinking
                        deeply. At last she said gently: "Why, Polly, would you want to
                        trust a tiny baby with a woman you ran away from yourself?"
                    "Mother, I haven't asked you to forgive me for the light I
                        put you in before the neighbours," said Polly, "because I
                        knew you couldn't honestly do it, and wouldn't lie to say
                        you did. I don't know what made me do that. I was
                            tired staying alone at the house so much, I was wild about Henry, I was bound I
                        wouldn't leave him and go away to school. I just thought it would
                        settle everything easily and quickly. I never once thought of how it would
                        make you look and feel. Honestly I didn't, Mother. You believe me,
                        don't you?"
                    "Yes, I believe you," said Kate.
                    "It was an awful thing for me to do," said Polly.
                        "I was foolish and crazy, and I suppose I shouldn't say
                        it, but I certainly did have a lot of encouragement from the Peters family.
                        They all seemed to think it would be a great joke, that it wouldn't
                        make any difference, and all that, so I just did it. I knew I
                        shouldn't have done it; but, Mother, you'll never know the
                        fight I've had all my life to keep from telling stories and
                        sneaking. I hated your everlasting: 'Now be careful,' but
                        when I hated it most, I needed it worst; and I knew it, when I grew older.
                        If only you had been here to say, 'Now be careful,' just
                        once, I never would have done it; but of course I couldn't have you
                        to keep me straight all my life. All I can say is that I'd give my
                        life and  never whimper, if I could be back
                        home as I was this time last year, and have a chance to do things your way.
                        But that is past, and I can't change it. What I came for to-day,
                        and what I want to know now is, if I go, will you take my baby?"
                    "Polly, you know the Peters family
                        wouldn't let me have it," said Kate.
                    "If it's a boy, they wouldn't want it," said Polly. "Neither would you, for that
                        matter. If it's a girl, they'll fight for it; but it
                        won't do them any good. All I want to know is, will
                            you take it?"
                    "Of course I would, Polly," said Kate.
                    "Since I have your word, I'll feel better," said
                        Folly. "And Mother, you needn't be afraid of it. It will be all right. I have thought about it so much I
                        have it all figured out. It's going to be a girl, and it's
                        going to be exactly like you, and its name is going to be Katherine Eleanor.
                        I have thought about you every hour I was awake since I have been gone; so
                        the baby will have to be exactly like you. There won't be the taint
                        of grandmother in it that there is in me. You needn't be afraid. I
                        quit sneaking forever when Adam told me what I had done to you. I have gone
                        straight as a dart, Mother, every single minute since, Mother; truly I
                        have!"
                    Kate sat down suddenly, an awful sickness in her heart.
                    "Why, you poor child you!" she said.
                    "Oh, I've been all right," said Polly.
                        "I've been almost petted and loved to death; but Mother,
                        there never should be the amount of work attached to living that  there is in that house. It's never
                        ending, it's intolerable. Mrs. Peters just goes until she drops,
                        and then instead of sleeping, she lies awake planning some hard, foolish,
                        unnecessary thing to do next. Maybe she can stand it herself, but
                        I'm tired out. I'm going to sit down, and not budge to do
                        another stroke until after the baby comes, and then I am going to coax Henry
                        to rent a piece of land, and move to ourselves."
                    Kate took heart. "That will be fine!" she cried.
                        "That will be the very thing. I'll ask the boys to keep
                        their eyes open for any chance for you."
                    "You needn't take any bother about it," said
                        Polly, "because that isn't what is going to happen. All I
                        want to be sure of now is that you and Adam will take my baby. I'll
                        see to the rest."
                    "How will you see to it, Polly?" asked Kate, gently.
                    "Well, it's already seen to, for matter of that,"
                        said Polly conclusively. "I've known for quite a while
                        that I was sick; but I couldn't make them do anything but kiss me,
                        and laugh at me, until I am so ill that I know better how I feel than
                        anybody else. I got tired being laughed at, and put off about everything, so
                        one day in Hartley, while Mother Peters was shopping, I just went in to the
                        lawyer Grandmother always went to, and told him all about what I wanted. He
                        has the papers made out all right and proper; so when I send for Uncle
                        Robert, I am going to send for him, too, and soon as the baby comes
                        I'll put in its name and sign it, and make Henry, and then if I
                        have to go, you won't have a bit of trouble."
                    
                    Kate gazed at Polly in dumb amazement. She was speechless for a time, then to
                        break the strain she said:
                    "My soul! Did you really, Polly? I guess there is more Bates in you
                        than I had thought!"
                    "Oh, there's some Bates in me,"
                        said Polly. "There's enough to make me live until I sign
                        that paper, and make Henry Peters sign it, and send Mr. Thomlins to you with
                        it and the baby. I can do that, because I'm going to!"
                    Ten days later she did exactly what she had said she would. Then she turned
                        her face to the wall and went into a convulsion out of which she never came.
                        While the Peters family refused Kate's plea to lay Polly beside her
                        grandmother, and laid her in their family lot, Kate, moaning dumbly, sat
                        clasping a tiny red girl in her arms. Adam drove to Hartley to deposit one
                        more paper, the most precious of all, in the safety deposit box.
                    Kate and Adam mourned too deeply to talk about it. They went about their
                        daily rounds silently, each busy with regrets and self investigations. They
                        watched each other carefully, were kinder than they ever had been to
                        everyone they came in contact with; the baby they frankly adored. Kate had
                        reared her own children with small misgivings, quite casually, in fact; but
                        her heart was torn to the depths about this baby. Life never would be even
                        what it had been before Polly left them, for into her going there entered an
                        element of self-reproach and continual self-condemnation. Adam felt that if
                        he had been less occupied with Milly York and had taken proper care  of his sister, he would not have lost her.
                        Kate had less time for recrimination, because she had the baby.
                    "Look for a good man to help you this summer, Adam," she
                        said. "The baby is full of poison which can be eliminated only
                        slowly. If I don't get it out before teething, I'll lose
                        her, and then we never shall hear the last from the Peters family. Adam
                        consigned the Peters family to a location he thought suitable for them on
                        the instant. He spoke with unusual bitterness, because he had heard that the
                        Peters family were telling that Polly had grieved herself to death, while
                        his mother had engineered a scheme whereby she had stolen the baby.
                        Occasionally a word drifted to Kate here and there, until she realized much
                        of what they were saying. At first she grieved too deeply to pay any
                        attention, but as the summer went on and the baby flourished and grew fine
                        and strong, and she had time in the garden, she began to feel better; grief
                        began to wear away, as it always does.
                    By midsummer the baby was in short clothes, sitting in a high chair, which if
                        Miss Baby only had known it, was a throne before which knelt her two adoring
                        subjects. Polly had said the baby would be like Kate. Its hair and colouring
                        were like hers, but it had the brown eyes of its father, and enough of his
                        facial lines to tone down the too generous Bates features. When the baby was
                        five months old it was too pretty for adequate description. One baby has no
                        business with perfect features, a mop of curly, yellow silk hair, and big
                        brown eyes. One of the questions Kate and Adam discussed most frequently  was where they would send her to college,
                        while one they did not discuss was how sick her stomach teeth would make
                        her. They merely lived in mortal dread of that.
                        "Convulsion," was a word that held a terror for Kate above
                        any other in the medical books.
                    The baby had a good, formal name, but no one ever used it. Adam, on first
                        lifting the blanket, had fancied the child resembled its mother and had
                        called her "Little Poll." The name clung to her. Kate
                        could not call such a tiny morsel either Kate or Katherine; she liked
                        "Little Poll," better. The baby had three regular
                        visitors. One was her father. He was not fond of Kate; Little Poll suited
                        him. He expressed his feeling by bringing gifts of toys, candy, and
                        unsuitable clothes. Kate kept these things in evidence when she saw him
                        coming and swept them from sight when he went; for she had the good sense
                        not to antagonize him. Nancy Ellen came almost every day, proudly driving
                        her new car, and with the light of a new joy on her face. She never said
                        anything to Kate, but Kate knew what had happened. Nancy Ellen came to see
                        the baby. She brought it lovely and delicate little shoes, embroidered
                        dresses and hoods, cloaks and blankets. One day as she sat holding it she
                        said to Kate: "Isn't the baby a dreadful bother to you?
                        You're not getting half your usual work done."
                    "No, I'm doing unusual work,"
                        said Kate, lightly. "Adam is hiring a man who does my work very
                        well in  the fields; there isn't
                        money that would hire me to let any one else take my job indoors, right
                        now."
                    A slow red crept into Nancy Ellen's cheeks. She had meant to be
                        diplomatic, but diplomacy never worked well with Kate. As Nancy Ellen often
                        said, Kate understood a sledge-hammer better. Nancy Ellen used the hammer.
                        Her face flushed, her arms closed tightly. "Give me this
                        baby," she demanded.
                    Kate looked at her in helpless amazement.
                    "Give it to me," repeated Nancy Ellen.
                    "She's a gift to me," said Kate, slowly.
                        "One the Peters family are searching heaven and earth to find an
                        excuse to take from me. I hear they've been to a lawyer twice,
                        already. I wouldn't give her up to save my soul alive, for myself;
                        for you, if I would let you have her, they would not leave you in possession
                        a day."
                    "Are they really trying to get her?" asked Nancy Ellen,
                        slowly loosening her grip.
                    "They are," said Kate. "They sent a lawyer to get
                        a copy of the papers, to see if they could pick a flaw in them."
                    "Can they?" cried Nancy Ellen.
                    "God knows!" said Kate, slowly. "I hope not. Mr. Thomlins is the best lawyer in Hartley; he says not.
                        He says Henry put his neck in the noose when he signed the papers. The only
                        chance I can see for him would be to plead undue influence. When you look at
                        her, you can't blame him for wanting her. I've two hopes.
                        One that his mother will not want the extra work; the other that  the next girl he selects will not want the
                        baby. If I can keep them going a few months more with a teething scare, I
                        hope they will get over wanting her."
                    "If they do, then may we have her?" asked Nancy Ellen.
                    Kate threw out her hands. "Take my eyes, or my hands, or my
                        feet," she said; "but leave me my heart."
                    Nancy Ellen went soon after, and did not come again for several days. Then
                        she began coming as usual, so that the baby soon knew her and laughed in
                        high glee when she appeared. Dr. Gray often stopped in passing to see her;
                        if he was in great haste, he hallooed at the gate to ask if she was all
                        right. Kate was thankful for this, more than thankful for the telephone and
                        car that would bring him in fifteen minutes day or night, if he were needed.
                        But he was not needed. Little Poll throve and grew fat and rosy; for she ate
                        measured food, slept by the clock, in a sanitary bed, and was a bathed,
                        splendidly cared for baby. When Kate's family and friends laughed,
                        she paid not the slightest heed.
                    "Laugh away," she said. "I've got
                        something to fight with this baby; I don't propose for the battle
                        to come and find the chances against me, because I'm
                        unprepared."
                    With scrupulous care Kate watched over the child, always putting her first,
                        the house and land afterward. One day she looked up the road and saw Henry
                        Peters coming. She had been expecting Nancy Ellen. She had finished bathing
                        the baby and making her especially attractive in a dainty lace ruffled dress
                        with blue ribbons  and blue shoes that her
                        sister had brought on her latest trip. Little Poll was a wonderful picture,
                        for her eyes were always growing bigger, her cheeks pinker, her skin fairer,
                        her hair longer and more softly curling. At first thought Kate had been
                        inclined to snatch off the dress and change to one of the cheap, ready-made
                        ginghams Henry brought, but the baby was so lovely as she was, she had not
                        the heart to spoil the picture, while Nancy Ellen might come any minute. So
                        she began putting things in place while Little Poll sat crowing and trying
                        to pick up a sunbeam that fell across her tray. Her father came to the door
                        and stood looking at her. Suddenly he dropped in a chair, covered his face
                        with his hands and began to cry, in deep, shuddering sobs. Kate stood still
                        in wonderment. At last she seated herself before him and said gently:
                        "Won't you tell me about it, Henry?"
                    Henry struggled for self-control. He looked at the baby longingly. Finally he
                        said: "It's pretty tough to give up a baby like that, Mrs.
                        Holt. She's my little girl. I wish God had struck my right hand
                        with palsy, when I went to sign those papers."
                    "Oh, no, you don't, Henry," said Kate, suavely.
                        "You wouldn't like to live the rest of your life a
                        cripple. And is it any worse for me to have your girl in spite of the real
                        desires and dictates of your heart, than it was for you to have mine? And
                        you didn't take the intelligent care of my girl that I'm
                        taking of yours, either. A doctor and a little right treatment at the proper
                        time  would have saved Polly to rear her own
                        baby; but there's no use to go into that. I was waiting for Polly
                        to come home of her own accord, as she left it; and while I waited, a poison
                        crept into her system that took her. I never shall feel right about it;
                        neither shall you"
                    "No, I should say I won't!" said Henry
                        emphatically. "I never thought of anything being the matter with
                        Polly that wouldn't all be over when the baby came"
                    "I know you didn't, Henry," said Kate. "I
                        know how much you would have done, and how gladly, if you had known. There
                        is no use going into that, we are both very much to blame; we must take our
                        punishment. Now what is this I hear about your having been to see lawyers
                        and trying to find a way to set aside the adoption papers you signed?
                        Let's have a talk, and see what we can arrive at. Tell me all about
                        it."
                    So Henry told Kate how he had loved Polly, how he felt guilty of her death,
                        how he longed for and wanted her baby, how he had signed the paper which
                        Polly put before him so unexpectedly, to humour her, because she was very
                        ill; but he had not dreamed that she could die; how he did not feel that he
                        should be bound by that signature now. Kate listened with the deepest
                        sympathy, assenting to most he said until he was silent. Then she sat
                        thinking a long time. At last she said: "Henry, if you and Polly
                        had waited until I came home, and told me what you wanted and how you felt,
                        I should have gotten her ready, and given you a customary wedding, and
                        helped you to a start in life that I think 
                        would have saved her to you, and to me. That is past, but the fact remains.
                        You are hurt over giving up the baby as you have; I'm hurt over
                        losing my daughter as I did; we are about even on the past, don't
                        you think?"
                    "I suppose we are," he said, heavily.
                    "That being agreed," said Kate, "let us look to
                        the future. You want the baby now, I can guess how much, by how much I want
                        her, myself. I know your point of view; there are two
                        others, one is mine, and the other is the baby's. I feel that it is
                        only right and just that I should have this little girl to replace the one
                        you took from me, in a way far from complimentary to me. I feel that she is
                        mine, because Polly told me the day she came to see me how sick she had
                        been, how she had begged for a doctor, and been kissed and told there was
                        nothing the matter with her, when she knew she was very ill. She gave the
                        baby to me, and at that time she had been to see a lawyer, and had her
                        papers all made out except the signatures and dates. Mr. Thomlins can tell
                        you that; and you know that up to that time I had not seen Polly, or had any
                        communication with her. She simply was unnerved at the thought of trusting
                        her baby to the care she had had."
                    Kate was hitting hard and straight from the shoulder. The baby, busy with her
                        sunbeam, jabbered unnoticed.
                    "When Polly died as she did," continued Kate, "I
                        knew that her baby would be full of the same poison that killed her; and
                        that it must be eliminated before it came time to cut her worst teeth, so I
                        undertook the  work, and sleeping or waking, I
                        have been at it ever since. Now, Henry, is there any one at your house who
                        would have figured this out, and taken the time, pains, and done work that I
                        have? Is there?"
                    "Mother raised five of us," he said defensively.
                    "But she didn't die of diathesis giving birth to the first
                        of you," said Kate. "You were all big, strong boys with a
                        perfectly sound birthright. And your mother is now a much older, wearier
                        woman than she was then, and her hands are far too full every day, as it is.
                        If she knew how to handle the baby as I have, and was willing to add the
                        work to her daily round, would you be willing to have her? I have three
                        times her strength, while I consider that I've the first right.
                        Then there is the baby's side of the question. I have had her
                        through the worst, hardest part of babyhood; she is accustomed to a fixed
                        routine that you surely will concede agrees with her; she would miss me, and
                        she would not thrive as she does with me, for her food and her hours would
                        not be regular, while you, and your father, and the boys would tire her to
                        death handling her. That is the start. The finish would be that she would
                        grow, up if she survived, to take the place Polly took at your house, while
                        you would marry some other girl, as you will before a year
                        from now. I'm dreadfully sorry to say these things to you, Henry,
                        but you know they are the truth. If you're going to try to take the
                        baby, I'm going to fight you to the last dollar I can raise, and
                        the last foot of land I own. That's all. Look at the baby; think it
                        over; and let me know  what you'll do
                        as soon as you can. I'm not asking mercy at your hands, but I do
                        feel that I have suffered about my share."
                    "You needn't suffer any longer," said Henry,
                        drying his eyes. "All you say is true; just as what I said was
                        true; but I might as well tell you, and let one of us be happy. I saw my
                        third lawyer yesterday, and he said the papers were unbreakable unless I
                        could prove that the child was neglected, and not growing right, or not
                        having proper care. Look at her! I might do some things! I did do a thing as
                        mean as to persuade a girl to marry me without her mother's
                        knowledge, and ruined her life thereby, but God knows I couldn't go
                        on the witness stand and swear that that baby is not properly cared for
                        Mother's job is big enough; and while it doesn't seem
                        possible now, very likely I shall marry again, as other men do; and in that
                        event, Little Poll would be happier with you. I give her
                        up. I think I came this morning to say that I was defeated; and to tell you
                        that I'd give up if I saw that you would fight. Keep the baby, and
                        be as happy as you can. You shan't be worried any more about her.
                        Polly shall have this thing as she desired and planned it.
                        Good-bye."
                    When he had gone Kate knelt on the floor, laid her head on the chair tray,
                        and putting her arms around the baby she laughed and cried at the same time,
                        while Miss Baby pulled her hair, patted her face, and plastered it with wet,
                        uncertain kisses. Then Kate tied a little bonnet on the baby's head
                        and taking her in her arms, she went  to the
                        field to tell Adam. It seemed to Kate that she could see responsibility
                        slipping from his shoulders, could see him grow taller as he listened. The
                        breath of relief he drew was long and deep.
                    "Fine!" he cried. "Fine! I haven't told
                        you half I knew. I've been worried until I
                        couldn't sleep."
                    Kate went back to the house so glad she did not realize she was touching
                        earth at all. She fed the baby and laid her down for her morning nap, and
                        then went out in the garden; but she was too restless to work. She walked
                        bareheaded in the sun and was glad as she never before in her life had known
                        how to be glad. The first thing Kate knew she was standing at the gate
                        looking up at the noonday sky and from the depths of her heart she was
                        crying aloud: "Praise ye the Lord, Oh my soul. Let all that is
                        within me praise His holy name!"
                    For the remainder of the day Kate was unblushingly insane. She started to do
                        a hundred things and abandoned all of them to go out and look up at the sky
                        and to cry repeatedly: "Praise the Lord!"
                    If she had been asked to explain why she did this, Kate could have answered,
                        and would have answered: "Because I feel like
                        it!" She had been taught no religion as a child, she had practised
                        no formal mode of worship as a woman. She had been straight, honest, and
                        virtuous. She had faced life and done with small question the work that she
                        thought fell to her hand. She had accepted joy, sorrow, shame, all in the
                        same stoic way. Always she had felt that there was a mighty force in the
                        universe  that could as well be called God as
                        any other name; it mattered not about the name; it was a real force, and it
                        was there.
                    That day Kate exulted. She carried the baby down to the brook in the
                        afternoon and almost shouted; she sang until she could have been heard a
                        mile. She kept straight on praising the Lord, because expression was
                        imperative, and that was the form of expression that seemed to come
                        naturally to her. Without giving a thought as to how, or why, she followed
                        her impulses and praised the Lord. The happier she grew, the more clearly
                        she saw how uneasy and frightened she had been.
                    When Nancy Ellen came, she took only one glance at Kate's glorified
                        face and asked: "What in this world has happened to you?"
                    Kate answered in all seriousness: "My Lord has 'shut the
                        lions' mouths,' and they are not going to harm
                        me."
                    Nancy Ellen regarded her closely. "I hope you aren't
                        running a temperature," she said. "I'll take a
                        shot at random. You have found out that the Peters family can't
                        take Little Poll."
                    Kate laughed joyously. "Better than that, sister mine!" she
                        cried. "I have convinced Henry that he doesn't want her
                        himself as much as he wants me to have her, and he can speedily convert his
                        family. He will do nothing more! He will leave me in peace with
                        her."
                    "Thank God!" said Nancy Ellen.
                    "There you go, too!" cried Kate. "That's
                        the very  first thought that came to me, only
                        I said, 'Praise the Lord,' which is exactly the same
                        thing; and Nancy Ellen, since Robert has been trying to praise the Lord for
                        twenty years, and both of us do praise Him when our time comes,
                        wouldn't it be a good idea to open up our heads and say so, not
                        only to ourselves and to the Lord, but to the neighbours? I'm
                        afraid she won't understand much of it, but I think I shall find
                        the place and read to Little Poll about Abraham and Isaac to-night, and
                        probably about Hagar and Ishmael to-morrow night, and it wouldn't
                        surprise me a mite to hear myself saying 'Praise the
                        Lord,' right out loud, any time, any place. Let's gather a
                        great big bouquet of our loveliest flowers, and go tell Mother and Polly
                        about it."
                    Without a word Nancy Ellen turned toward the garden. They gathered the
                        flowers and getting in Nancy Ellen's car drove the short distance
                        to the church where Nancy Ellen played with the baby in the shade of a big
                        tree while Kate arranged her flowers. Then she sat down and they talked over
                        their lives from childhood.
                    "Nancy Ellen, won't you stay to supper with us?"
                        asked Kate.
                    "Yes," said Nancy Ellen, rising, "I
                        haven't had such a good time in years. I'm as glad for you
                        as I'd be if I had such a child assured me, myself."
                    "You can't bring yourself?" began Kate.
                    "Yes, I think so," said Nancy Ellen. "Getting
                        things for Little Poll has broken me up so, I told Robert how I felt, and
                        he's watching in his practice, and he's written  several letters of inquiry to friends in
                        Chicago. Any day now I may have my work cut out for me."
                    "Praise the Lord again!" cried Kate. "I see where
                        you will be happier than you ever have been. Real life is just beginning for
                        you."
                    Then they went home and prepared a good supper and had such a fine time they
                        were exalted in heart and spirit. When Nancy Ellen started home, Kate took
                        the baby and climbed in the car with her, explaining that they would go a
                        short way and walk back. She went only as far as the Peters gate; then she
                        bravely walked up to the porch, where Mr. Peters and some of the boys sat,
                        and said casually: "I just thought I'd bring Little Poll
                        up to get acquainted with her folks. Isn't she dear?"
                    An hour later, as she walked back in the moonlight, Henry beside her carrying
                        the baby, he said to her: "This is a mighty big thing, and a kind
                        thing for you to do, Mrs. Holt. Mother has been saying scandalous things
                        about you."
                    "I know," said Kate. "But never mind! She
                        won't any more."
                    The remainder of the week she passed in the same uplifted mental state. She
                        carried the baby in her arms and walked all over the farm, going often to
                        the cemetery with fresh flowers. Sunday morning, when the work was all done,
                        the baby dressed her prettiest, Kate slipped into one of her fresh white
                        dresses and gathering a big bunch of flowers started again to whisper above
                        the graves of her mother and Polly the story of her gladness,  and to freshen the flowers, so that the
                        people coming from church would see that her family were remembered. When
                        she had finished she arose, took up the baby, and started to return across
                        the cemetery, going behind the church, taking the path she had travelled the
                        day she followed the minister's admonition to "take the
                        wings of morning." She thought of that. She stood very still,
                        thinking deeply.
                    "I took them," she said. "I've tried
                        flight after flight; and I've fallen, and risen, and fallen, and
                        got up and tried again, but never until now have I felt that I could really
                        'fly to the uttermost parts of the earth.' There is a
                        rising power in me that should benefit more than myself. I guess
                        I'll just join in."
                    She walked into the church as the last word of the song the congregation were
                        singing was finished, and the minister was opening his lips to say:
                        "Let us pray." Straight down the aisle came Kate, her
                        bare, gold head crowned with a flash of light at each window she passed. She
                        paused at the altar, directly facing the minister.
                    "Baby and I would like the privilege of praising the Lord with
                        you," she said simply, "and we would like to do our share
                        in keeping up this church and congregation to His honour and glory.
                        There's some water. Can't you baptize us now?"
                    The minister turned to the pitcher, which always stood on his desk, filled
                        his palm, and asked: "What is the baby's name?"
                    "Katherine Eleanor Peters," said Kate.
                    
                    "Katherine Eleanor, I baptize thee," said the minister, and
                        he laid his hand on the soft curls of the baby. She scattered the flowers
                        she was holding over the altar as she reached to spat her hands in the water
                        on her head and laughed aloud.
                    "What is your name?" said the minister.
                    "Katherine Eleanor Holt," said Kate.
                    Again the minister repeated the formula, and then he raised both hands and
                        said: "Let us pray."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    THE WINGED VICTORY
                    
                    
                        KATE turned and placing the baby on the front seat, she
                        knelt and put her arms around the little thing, but her lips only repeated
                        the words: "Praise the Lord for this precious baby!" Her
                        heart was filled with high resolve. She would rear the baby with such care.
                        She would be more careful with Adam. She would make heroic effort to help
                        him to clean, unashamed manhood. She would be a better sister to all her
                        family. She would be friendlier, and have more patience with the neighbours.
                        She would join in whatever effort the church was making to hold and increase
                        its membership among the young people, and to raise funds to keep up the
                        organization. All the time her mind was busy thinking out these fine
                        resolves, her lips were thanking the Lord for Little Poll. Kate arose with
                        the benediction, picked up the baby, and started down the aisle among the
                        people she had known all her life. On every side strong hands stretched out
                        to greet and welcome her. A daughter of Adam Bates was something new as a
                        church member. They all knew how she could work, and what she could give if
                        she chose; while that she had stood at the altar and been baptized, meant
                             that something not customary with the
                        Bates family was taking place in her heart. So they welcomed her, and
                        praised the beauty and sweetness of the baby until Kate went out into the
                        sunshine, her face glowing.
                    Slowly she walked home and as she reached the veranda, Adam took the baby.
                    "Been to the cemetery?" he asked.
                    Kate nodded and dropped into a chair.
                    "That's too far to walk and carry this great big
                        woman," he said, snuggling his face in the baby's neck,
                        while she patted his cheeks and pulled his hair. "Why
                        didn't you tell me you wanted to go, and let me get out the
                        car?"
                    Kate looked at him speculatively.
                    "Adam," she said, "when I started out, I meant
                        only to take some flowers to Mother and Polly. As I came around the corner
                        of the church to take the footpath, they were singing 'Rejoice in
                        the Lord!' I went inside and joined. I'm going to church
                        as often as I can after this, and I'm going to help with the work
                        of running it."
                    "Well, I like that!" cried Adam, indignantly. "Why
                        didn't you let me go with you?"
                    Kate sat staring down the road. She was shocked speechless. Again she had
                        followed an impulse, without thinking of any one besides herself. Usually
                        she could talk, but in that instant she had nothing to say. Then a carriage
                        drew into the line of her vision, stopped at York's gate, and Mr.
                        York alighted and swung to the ground a slim girlish figure and then helped
                        his wife. Kate had a sudden inspiration. "But you would want to  wait a little and join with Milly,
                        wouldn't you?" she asked. "Uncle Robert always
                        has been a church member. I think it's a fine stand for a man to
                        take."
                    "Maybe that would be better," he said. "I
                        didn't think of Milly. I only thought I'd like to have
                        been with you and Little Poll."
                    "I'm sure Milly will be joining very soon, and that
                        she'll want you with her," said Kate.
                    She was a very substantial woman, but for the remainder of that day she felt
                        that she was moving with winged feet. She sang, she laughed, she was
                        unspeakably happy. She kept saying over and over: "And a little
                        child shall lead them." Then she would catch Little Poll, almost
                        crushing her in her strong arms. It never occurred to Kate that she had done
                        an unprecedented thing. She had done as her heart dictated. She did not know
                        that she put the minister into a most uncomfortable position, when he
                        followed her request to baptize her and the child. She had never thought of
                        probations, and examinations, and catechisms. She had read the Bible, as was
                        the custom, every morning before her school. In that book, when a man wanted
                        to follow Jesus, he followed; Jesus accepted him; and that was all there was
                        to it, with Kate.
                    The middle of the week Nancy Ellen came flying up the walk on winged feet,
                        herself. She carried photographs of several small children, one of them a
                        girl so like Little Poll that she might have been the original of the
                        picture.
                    
                    "They just came," said Nancy Ellen rather breathlessly.
                        "I was wild for that little darling at once. I had Robert telegraph
                        them to hold her until we could get there. We're going to start on
                        the evening train and if her blood seems good, and her ancestors
                        respectable, and she looks like that picture, we're going to bring
                        her back with us. Oh, Kate, I can scarcely wait to get my fingers on her.
                        I'm hungry for a baby all of my own."
                    Kate studied the picture.
                    "She's charming!" she said. "Oh, Nancy
                        Ellen, this world is getting entirely too good to be true."
                    Nancy Ellen looked at Kate and smiled peculiarly.
                    "I knew you were crazy," she said, "but I never
                        dreamed of you going such lengths. Mrs. Whistler told Robert, when she
                        called him in about her side, Tuesday. I can't imagine a Bates
                        joining church."
                    "If that is joining church, it's the easiest thing in the
                        world," said Kate. "We just loved doing it,
                        didn't we, Little Poll? Adam and Milly are going to come in soon,
                        I'm almost sure. At least he is willing. I don't know what
                        it is that I am to do, but I suppose they will give me my work
                        soon."
                    "You bet they'll give you work soon, and enough,"
                        said Nancy Ellen, laughing. "But you won't mind.
                        You'll just put it through, as you do things out here. Kate, you
                        are making this place look fine. I used to say I'd rather die than
                        come back here to live, but lately it has been growing so attractive,
                        I've been here about half my time, and wished I were the other
                        half."
                    
                    Kate slipped her arm around Nancy Ellen as they walked to the gate.
                    "You know," said Nancy Ellen, "the more I study you, the less I know about you.
                        Usually it's sickness, and sorrow, and losing their friends that
                        bring people to the consolations of the church. You bore those things like a
                        stoic. When they are all over, and you are comfortable and happy, just the
                        joy of being sure of Little Poll has transformed you. Kate, you make me
                        think of the 'Winged Victory,' this afternoon. If I get
                        this darling little girl, will she make me big, and splendid, and fine, like
                        you?"
                    Kate suddenly drew Nancy Ellen to her and kissed her a long, hard kiss on the
                        lips.
                    "Nancy Ellen," she said, "you are 'big, and splendid, and fine,' or you never
                        would be going to Chicago after this little motherless child. You
                        haven't said a word, but I know from the joy of you and Robert
                        during the past months that Mrs. Southey isn't troubling you any
                        more; and I'm sure enough to put it into words that when you get
                        your little child, she will lead you straight where mine has led me.
                        Good-bye and good luck to you, and remember me to Robert."
                    Nancy Ellen stood intently studying the picture she held in her hand. Then
                        she looked at Kate, smiling with misty eyes: "I think, Kate,
                        I'm very close, if I am not really where you are this
                        minute," she said. Then she started her car; but she looked back,
                        waving and smiling until the car swerved so that Kate called after her:
                        "Do drive carefully, Nancy Ellen!"
                    
                    Kate went slowly up the walk. She stopped several times to examine the shrubs
                        and bushes closely, to wish for rain for the flowers. She sat on the porch a
                        few minutes talking to Little Poll, then she went inside to answer the
                        phone.
                    "Kate?" cried a sharp voice.
                    "Yes," said Kate, recognizing a neighbour, living a few
                        miles down the road.
                    "Did Nancy Ellen just leave your house?" came a breathless
                        query.
                    "Yes," said Kate again.
                    "I just saw a car that looked like hers slip in the fresh sand at
                        the river levee, and it went down, and two or three times over."
                    "O God!" said Kate. Then after an instant: "Ring
                        the dinner bell for your men to get her out. I'll phone Robert, and
                        come as soon as I can get there."
                    Kate called Dr. Gray's office. She said to the girl: "Tell
                        the doctor that Mrs. Howe thinks she saw Nancy Ellen's car go down
                        the river levee, and two or three times over. Have him bring what he might
                        need to Howe's, and burry. Rush him!"
                    Then she ran to her bell and rang so frantically that Adam came running. Kate
                        was at the little garage they had built, and had the door open. She told him
                        what she had heard, ran to get the baby, and met him at the gate. On the way
                        she said, "You take the baby when we get there, and if I'm
                        needed, take her back and get Milly and her mother to come stay with you.
                             You know where her things are, and how to
                        feed her. Don't you dare let them change any way I do. Baby knows
                        Milly; she will be good for her and for you. You'll be
                        careful?"
                    "Of course, Mother," said Adam.
                    He called her attention to the road.
                    "Look at those tracks," he said. "Was she sick?
                        She might have been drunk, from them."
                    "No," said Kate, "she wasn't sick. She
                            was drunk, drunken with joy. She had a picture of the
                        most beautiful little baby girl. They were to start to Chicago after her
                        to-night. I suspect she was driving with the picture in one hand. Oh, my
                        God, have mercy!"
                    They had come to deep grooves in loose gravel, then the cut in the
                        embankment, then they could see the wrecked car standing on the engine and
                        lying against a big tree, near the water, while two men and a woman were
                        carrying a limp form across the meadow toward the house. As their car
                        stopped, Kate kissed the baby mechanically, handed her to Adam, and ran into
                        the house where she dragged a couch to the middle of the first room she
                        entered, found a pillow, and brought a bucket of water and a towel from the
                        kitchen. They carried Nancy Ellen in and laid her down. Kate began
                        unfastening clothing and trying to get the broken body in shape for the
                        doctor to work upon; but she spread the towel over what had been a face of
                        unusual beauty. Robert came in a few minutes, then all of them worked under
                        his directions until he suddenly sank to the floor,  burying his face in Nancy Ellen's breast; then they
                        knew. Kate gathered her sister's feet in her arms and hid her face
                        beside them. The neighbours silently began taking away things that had been
                        used, while Mrs. Howe chose her whitest sheet, and laid it on a chair near
                        Robert.
                    Two days later they laid Nancy Ellen beside her mother. Then they began
                        trying to face the problem of life without her. Robert said nothing. He
                        seemed too stunned to think. Kate wanted to tell him of her final visit with
                        Nancy Ellen, but she could not at that time. Robert's aged mother
                        came to him, and said she could remain as long as he wanted her, so that was
                        a comfort to Kate, who took time to pity him, even in her blackest hour. She
                        had some very black ones. She could have wailed, and lamented, and
                        relinquished all she had gained, but she did not. She merely went on with
                        life, as she always had lived it, to the best of her ability when she was so
                        numbed with grief she scarcely knew what she was doing. She kept herself
                        driven about the house, and when she could find no more to do, took Little
                        Poll in her arms and went out in the fields to Adam, where she found the
                        baby a safe place, and then cut and husked corn as usual. Every Sabbath, and
                        often during the week, her feet carried her to the cemetery, where she sat
                        in the deep grass and looked at those three long mounds and tried to
                        understand life; deeper still, to fathom death.
                    She and her mother had agreed that there was "something."
                        Now Kate tried as never before to understand what, and where, and why, that
                        "something" was.  Many days
                        she would sit for an hour at a time, thinking, and at last she arrived at
                        fixed convictions that settled matters forever with her. One day after she
                        had arranged the fall roses she had grown, and some roadside asters she had
                        gathered in passing, she sat in deep thought, when a car stopped on the
                        road. Kate looked up to see Robert coming across the churchyard with his
                        arms full of greenhouse roses. He carried a big bunch of deep red for her
                        mother, white for Polly, and a large sheaf of warm pink for Nancy Ellen.
                        Kate knelt up and taking her flowers, she moved them lower, and silently
                        helped Robert place those he had brought. Then she sat where she had been,
                        and looked at him.
                    Finally he asked: "Still hunting the 'why,'
                        Kate?"
                    "'Why' doesn't so much matter,"
                        said Kate, "as 'where.' I'm enough of a
                        fatalist to believe that Mother is here because she was old and worn out.
                        Polly had a clear case of uric poison, while I'd stake my life
                        Nancy Ellen was gloating over the picture she carried when she ran into that
                        loose sand. In each of their cases I am satisfied as to
                        'why,' as well as about Father. The thing that holds me,
                        and fascinates me, and that I have such a time being sure of, is
                        'where.'"
                    Robert glanced upward and asked: "Isn't there room enough
                        up there, Kate?"
                    "Too much!" said Kate. "And what is the soul, and how can it bridge the vortex lying
                        between us and other worlds, that man never can, because of the lack of air
                        to breathe, and support him?"
                    
                    "I don't know," said Robert; "and in
                        spite of the fact that I do know what a man cannot do, I
                        still believe in the immortality of the soul."
                    "Oh, yes," said Kate. "If there is any such thing
                        in science as a self-evident fact, that is one. That is
                        provable."
                    Robert looked at her eager face. "How would you go about proving it,
                        Kate?" he asked.
                    "Why, this way," said Kate, leaning to straighten and
                        arrange the delicate velvet petalled roses with her sure, work-abused
                        fingers. "Take the history of the world from as near dawn as we
                        have any record, and trace it from the igloo of the northernmost Esquimo,
                        around the globe, and down to the ice of the southern pole again, and in
                        blackest Africa, farthest, wildest Borneo, you will never discover one
                        single tribe of creatures, upright and belonging to the race of man, who did
                        not come into the world with four primal instincts. They all reproduce
                        themselves, they all make something intended for music, they all express a
                        feeling in their hearts by the exercise we call dance, they all believe in
                        the after life of the soul. This belief is as much a part
                        of any man, ever born in any location, as his hands and his feet. Whether he
                        believes his soul enters a cat and works back to man again after long
                        transmigration, or goes to a Happy Hunting Ground as our Indians, makes no
                        difference with the fact that he enters this world with belief in after life
                        of some kind. We see material evidence in increase that man is not defeated
                        in his desire to reproduce himself; we have 
                        advanced to something better than tom-toms and powwows for music and dance;
                        these desires are fulfilled before us, now tell me why the very strongest of
                        all, the most deeply rooted, the belief in after life, should come to
                        nothing. Why should the others be real, and that a dream?
                    "I don't think it is," said Robert.
                    "It's my biggest self-evident fact," said Kate,
                        conclusively. "I never heard any one else say these things, but I
                        think them, and they are provable. I always believed there was something;
                        but since I saw Mother go, I know there is. She stood in full evening light,
                        I looked straight in her face, and Robert, you know I'm no creature
                        of fancies and delusions, I tell you I saw her soul pass.
                        I saw the life go from her and go on, and on. I saw her body stand erect,
                        long enough for me to reach her, and pick her up, after its passing. That I
                        know."
                    "I shouldn't think of questioning it, Kate," said
                        Robert. "But don't you think you are rather limiting man,
                        when you narrow him to four primal instincts?"
                    "Oh, I don't know," said Kate. "Air to
                        breathe and food to sustain are presupposed. Man learns to
                        fight in self-defense, and to acquire what he covets. He learns to covet by
                        seeing stronger men, in better locations, surpass his achievements, so if he
                        is strong enough he goes and robs them by force. He learns the desire for
                        the chase in food hunting: no, I think four are plenty to start
                        with."
                    
                    "Probably you are right," said the doctor, rising.
                        "I must go now. Shall I take you home?"
                    Kate glanced at the sun and shook her head. "I can stay half an hour
                        longer. I don't mind the walk. I need exercise to keep me in
                        condition. Good-bye!"
                    As he started his car he glanced back. She was leaning over the flowers
                        absorbed in their beauty. Kate sat looking straight before her until time to
                        help with the evening work, and prepare supper, then she arose. She stood
                        looking down a long time; finally she picked up a fine specimen of each of
                        the roses and slowly dropped them on her father's grave.
                    "There! You may have that many," she said. "You
                        look a little too lonely, lying here beside the others with not a single
                        one, but if you could speak, I wonder whether you would say, 'Thank
                        you!' or 'Take the damn weede off
                    me!'"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    BLUE RIBBON CORN
                    
                    
                        NEVER in her life had Kate worked harder than she did that
                        fall; but she retained her splendid health. Everything was sheltered and
                        housed, their implements under cover, their stock in good condition, their
                        store-room filled, and their fruits and vegetables buried in hills and long
                        rows in the garden. Adam had a first wheat premium at the County Fair and a
                        second on corn, concerning which he felt abused. He thought his corn scored
                        the highest number of points, but that the award was given another man
                        because of Adam's having had first on wheat. In her heart Kate
                        agreed with him; but she tried to satisfy him with the blue ribbon on wheat
                        and keep him interested sufficiently to try for the first on corn the coming
                        year. She began making suggestions for the possible improvement of his corn.
                        Adam was not easily propitiated.
                    "Mother," he said, "you know as well as you know
                        you're alive, that if I had failed on wheat, or had second, I would
                        have been given first on my corn; my corn was the best in
                        every way, but they thought I would swell up and burst if I had two blue
                        ribbons. That was what  ailed the judges. What
                        encouragement is that to try again? I might grow even finer corn the coming
                        year than I did this, and be given no award at all, because I had two this
                        year. It would amount to exactly the same thing."
                    "We'll get some more books, and see if we can study up any
                        new wrinkles, this winter," said Kate. "Now cheer up, and
                        go tell Milly about it. Maybe she can console you, if I
                        can't."
                    "Nothing but justice will console me," said Adam.
                        "I'm not complaining about losing the prize; I'm
                        fighting mad because my corn, my beautiful corn, that grew and grew, and
                        held its head so high, and waved its banners of triumph to me with every
                        breeze, didn't get its fair show. What encouragement is there for
                        it to try to do better the coming year? The crows might as well have had it,
                        or the cutworms; while all my work is for nothing."
                    "You're making a big mistake," said Kate.
                        "If your corn was the finest, it was, and the judges knew it, and
                        you know it, and very likely the man who has the first prize, knows it. You
                        have a clean conscience, and you know what you know. They surely
                        can't feel right about it, or enjoy what they know. You have had
                        the experience, you have the corn for seed; with these things to back you,
                        clear a small strip of new land beside the woods this winter, and try what
                        that will do for you."
                    Adam looked at her with wide eyes. "By jing, Mother, you are a
                        dandy!" he said. "You just bet I'll try that next
                        year, but don't you tell a soul; there are more than  you who will let a strip be cleared, in an
                        effort to grow blue ribbon corn. How did you come to think of it?"
                    "Your saying all your work had been for nothing, made me think of
                        it," she answered. "Let them give another man the prize,
                        when they know your corn is the best. It's their way of keeping a
                        larger number of people interested and avoiding the appearance of
                        partiality; this contest was too close; next year, you grow such corn, that
                        the corn will force the decision in spite of the judges.
                        Do you see?"
                    "I see," said Adam. "I'll try
                        again."
                    After that life went on as usual. The annual Christmas party was the
                        loveliest of all, because Kate gave it loving thought, and because all of
                        their hearts were especially touched. As spring came on again, Kate and Adam
                        studied over their work, planning many changes for the better, but each time
                        they talked, when everything else was arranged, they came back to corn. More
                        than once, each of them dreamed corn that winter while asleep, they frankly
                        talked of it many times a day. Location, soil, fertilizers, seed,
                        cultivationthey even studied the almanacs for a general forecast of the
                        weather. These things brought them very close together. Also it was admitted
                        between them, that Little Poll "grappled them with hooks of
                        steel." They never lacked subjects for conversation. Poll always
                        came first, corn next, and during the winter there began to be discussion of
                        plans for Adam and Milly. Should Milly come with them, or should they build
                        a small house on the end of the farm  nearest
                        her mother? Adam did not care, so he married Milly speedily. Kate could not
                        make up her mind. Milly had the inclination of a bird for a personal and
                        private nest of her own. So spring came to them.
                    August brought the anniversary of Nancy Ellen's death, which again
                        saddened all of them. Then came cooler September weather, and the usual rush
                        of preparation for winter. Kate was everywhere and enjoying her work
                        immensely. On sturdy, tumbly legs Little Poll trotted after her or rode in
                        state on her shoulder, when distances were too far. If Kate took her to the
                        fields, as she did every day, she carried along the half of an old pink and
                        white quilt, which she spread in a shaded place and filled the
                        baby's lap with acorns, wild flowers, small brightly coloured
                        stones, shells, and whatever she could pick up for playthings. Poll amused
                        herself with these until the heat and air made her sleepy, then she laid
                        herself down and slept for an hour or two. Once she had trouble with stomach
                        teeth that brought Dr. Gray racing, and left Kate white and limp with fear.
                        Everything else had gone finely and among helping Adam, working in her home,
                        caring for the baby, doing whatever she could see that she thought would be
                        of benefit to the community, and what was assigned her by church committees,
                        Kate had a busy life. She had earned, in a degree, the leadership she
                        exercised in her first days in Walden. Everyone liked her; but no one ever
                        ventured to ask her for an opinion unless they truly wanted it.
                    
                    Adam came from a run to Hartley for groceries one evening in late September,
                        with a look of concern that Kate noticed on his face. He was very silent
                        during supper and when they were on the porch as usual, he still sat as if
                        thinking deeply. Kate knew that he would tell her what he was thinking about
                        when he was ready but she was not in the least prepared for what he said.
                    "Mother, how do you feel about Uncle Robert marrying
                        again?" he asked suddenly.
                    Kate was too surprised to answer. She looked at him in amazement. Instead of
                        answering, she asked him a question: "What makes you ask
                        that?"
                    "You know how that Mrs. Southey pursued him one summer. Well,
                        she's back in Hartley, staying at the hotel right across from his
                        office; she's dressed to beat the band, she's pretty as a
                        picture; her car stands out in front all day, and to get to ride in it, and
                        take meals with her, all the women are running after her. I hear she has
                        even had Robert's old mother out for a drive. What do you think of
                        that?"
                    "Think she's in love with him, of course, and trying to
                        marry him, and that she will very probably succeed. If she has located where
                        she is right under his eye, and lets him know that she wants him very much,
                        he'll, no doubt, marry her."
                    "But what do you think about it?" asked
                        Adam.
                    "I've had no time to think,"
                        said Kate. "At first blush, I'd say that I shall hate it,
                        as badly as I could possibly hate anything that was none of my immediate  business. Nancy Ellen loved him so. I never
                        shall forget that day she first told me about him, and how loving him
                        brought out her beauty, and made her shine and glow as if from an inner
                        light. I was always with her most, and I loved her more than all the other
                        girls put together. I know that Southey woman tried to take him from her one
                        summer not long ago, and that he gave her to understand that she could not,
                        so she went away. If she's back, it means only one thing, and I
                        think probably she'll succeed; but you can be sure it will make me
                        squirm properly."
                    "I thought you wouldn't like
                        it," he said emphatically.
                    "Now understand me, Adam," said Kate.
                        "I'm no fool. I didn't expect Robert to be more
                        than human. He has no children, and he'd like a child above
                        anything else on earth. I've known that for years, ever since it
                        became apparent that none was coming to Nancy Ellen. I hadn't given
                        the matter a thought, but if I had been thinking, I would have thought that
                        as soon as was proper, he would select a strong, healthy young woman, and
                        make her his wife. I know his mother is homesick, and wants to go back to
                        her daughters and their children, which is natural. I haven't an
                        objection in the world to him marrying a proper woman, at
                        a proper time and place; but Oh, dear Lord, I do dread and despise to see
                        that little Southey cat come back and catch him, because she knows
                        how."
                    "Did you ever see her, Mother?" he asked.
                    "No, I never," said Kate, "and I hope I never
                        shall.  I know what Nancy Ellen felt, because
                        she told me all about it that time we were up North. I'm trying
                        with all my might to have a Christian spirit. I swallowed Mrs. Peters, and
                        never blinked, that anybody saw; but I don't, I truly
                        don't know from where I could muster grace to treat a woman
                        decently, who tried to do to my sister, what I know Mrs.
                        Southey tried to do to Nancy Ellen. She planned to break up my
                        sister's home; that I know. Now that Nancy Ellen is gone, I feel
                        to-night as if I just couldn't endure to see Mrs. Southey marry
                        Robert."
                    "Bet she does it!" said Adam.
                    "Did you see her?" asked Kate.
                    "See her!" cried Adam. "I saw her half a dozen
                        times in an hour. She's in the heart of the town, nothing to do but
                        dress and motor. Never saw such a peach of a car. I couldn't help
                        looking at it. Gee, I wish I could get you one like that!"
                    "What did you think of her looks?" asked Kate.
                    "Mighty pretty!" said Adam, promptly. "Small, but
                        not tiny; plump, but not fat; pink, light curls, big baby blue eyes and a
                        sort of hesitating way about her, as if she were anxious to do the right
                        thing, but feared she might not, and wished somebody would take care of
                        her."
                    Kate threw out her hands with a rough exclamation. "I get the
                        picture!" she said. "It's a dead centre shot. That gets a man, every time. No man cares a picayune about
                        a woman who can take care of herself, and help him with his job if he has
                        the ghost of a chance at a  little pink and
                        white clinger, who will suck the life and talent out of him, like the
                        parasite she is, while she makes him believe he is on the job, taking care
                        of her. You can rest assured it will be settled before Christmas."
                    Kate had been right in her theories concerning the growing of blue ribbon
                        corn. At the County Fair in late September Adam exhibited such heavy ears of
                        evenly grained white and yellow corn that the blue ribbon he carried home
                        was not an award of the judges; it was a concession to the just demands of
                        the exhibit.
                    Then they began husking their annual crop. It had been one of the
                        country's best years for corn. The long, even, golden ears they
                        were stripping the husks from and stacking in heaps over the field might
                        profitably have been used for seed by any farmer. They had divided the field
                        in halves and Adam was husking one side, Kate the other. She had a big shock
                        open and kneeling beside it she was busy stripping open the husks, and
                        heaping up the yellow ears. Behind her the shocks stood like rows of
                        stationed sentinels; above, the crisp October sunshine warmed the air to a
                        delightful degree; around the field, the fence rows were filled with purple
                        and rose coloured asters, and everywhere goldenrod, yellower than the corn,
                        was hanging in heavy heads of pollen-spraying bloom.
                    On her old pink quilt Little Poll, sound asleep, was lifted from the shade of
                        one shock to another, while Kate worked across her share of the field. As
                        she worked she kept looking at the child. She frankly adored her, but she
                        kept her  reason and held to rigid rules in
                        feeding, bathing, and dressing. Poll minded even a gesture or a nod.
                    Above, the flocking larks pierced the air with silver notes, on the
                        fence-rows the gathering robins called to each other; high in the air the
                        old black vulture that homed in a hollow log in Kate's woods,
                        looked down on the spots of colour made by the pink quilt, the gold corn,
                        the blue of Kate's dress, and her yellow head. An artist would have
                        paused long, over the rich colour, the grouping and perspective of that
                        picture, while the hazy fall atmosphere softened and blended the whole.
                        Kate, herself, never had appeared or felt better. She worked rapidly, often
                        glancing across the field to see if she was even with, or slightly in
                        advance of Adam. She said it would never do to let the boy get
                        "heady," so she made a point of keeping even with him, and
                        caring for Little Poll, "for good measure."
                    She was smiling as she watched him working like a machine as he ripped open
                        husks, gave the ear a twist, tossed it aside, and reached for the next. Kate
                        was doing the same thing, quite as automatically. She was beginning to find
                        the afternoon sun almost hot on her bare head, so she turned until it fell
                        on her back. Her face was flushed to coral pink, and framed in a loose
                        border of her beautiful hair. She was smiling at the thought of how Adam was
                        working to get ahead of her, smiling because Little Poll looked such a
                        picture of healthy loveliness, smiling because she was so well, she felt
                        super-abundant health rising like a stimulating tide in her  body, smiling because the corn was the finest
                        she ever had seen in a commonly cultivated field, smiling because she and
                        Adam were of one accord about everything, smiling because the day was very
                        beautiful, because her heart was at peace, her conscience clear.
                    She heard a car stop at her gate, saw a man alight and start across the yard
                        toward the field, and knew that her visitor had seen her, and was coming to
                        her. Kate went on husking corn and when the man swung over the fence of the
                        field she saw that he was Robert, and instantly thought of Mrs. Southey, so
                        she ceased to smile. "I've got a big notion to tell him
                        what I think of him," she said to herself, even as she looked up to
                        greet him. Instantly she saw that he had come for something.
                    "What is it?" she asked.
                    "Agatha," he said. "She's been having
                        some severe heart attacks lately, and she just gave me a real
                        scare."
                    Instantly Kate forgot everything, except Agatha, whom she cordially liked,
                        and Robert, who appeared older, more tired, and worried than she ever had
                        seen him. She thought Agatha had "given him a real scare,"
                        and then she decided that it scarcely would have been bad enough to put
                        lines in his face she never had noticed before, dark circles under his eyes,
                        a look of weariness in his bearing. She doubted as she looked at him if he
                        were really courting Mrs. Southey. Even as she thought of these things she
                        was asking: "She's better now?"
                    "Yes, easier, but she suffered terribly. Adam was upset completely.
                        Adam, 3d, and Susan and their families  are
                        away from home and won't be back for a few days unless I send for
                        them. They went to Ohio to visit some friends. I stopped to ask if it would
                        be possible for you to go down this evening and sleep there, so that if
                        there did happen to be a recurrence, Adam wouldn't be
                        alone."
                    "Of course," said Kate, glancing at the baby.
                        "I'll go right away!"
                    "No need for that," he said, "if you'll
                        arrange to stay with Adam to-night, as a precaution. You needn't go
                        till bed-time. I'm going back after supper to put them in shape for
                        the night. I'm almost sure she'll be all right now; but
                        you know how frightened we can get about those we love."
                    "Yes, I know," said Kate, quietly, going straight on
                        ripping open ear after ear of corn. Presently she wondered why he did not
                        go. She looked up at him and met his eyes. He was studying her intently.
                        Kate was vividly conscious in an instant of her bare wind-teased head, her
                        husking gloves; she was not at all sure that her face was clean. She smiled
                        at him, and picking up the sunbonnet lying beside her, she wiped her face
                        with the skirt.
                    "If this sun hits too long on the same spot, it grows
                        warm," she told him.
                    "Kate, I do wish you wouldn't!" he exclaimed
                        abruptly.
                    Kate was too forthright for sparring.
                    "Why not?" she asked.
                    "For one thing, you are doing a man's work," he
                        said.  "For another, I hate to see
                        you burn the loveliest hair I ever saw on the head of a woman, and coarsen
                        your fine skin."
                    Kate looked down at the ear of corn she held in her hands, and considered an
                        instant.
                    "There hasn't any man been around asking to relieve me of
                        this work," she said. "I got my start in life doing a
                        man's work, and I'm frank to say that I'd far
                        rather do it any day, than what is usually considered a woman's. As
                        for my looks, I never set a price on them or let them interfere with
                        business, Robert."
                    "No, I know you don't," he said. "But
                        it's a pity to spoil you."
                    "I don't know what's the matter with
                        you," said Kate, patiently. She bent her head toward him.
                        "Feel," she said, "and see if my hair
                        isn't soft and fine. I always cover it in really burning sun; this
                        autumn haze is good for it. My complexion is exactly as smooth and even now,
                        as it was the day I first met you on the footlog over twenty years ago.
                        There's one good thing about the Bates women. They wear well. None
                        of us yet have ever faded, and frazzled out. Have you got many Hartley
                        women, doing what you call women's work, to compare with me
                        physically, Robert?"
                    "You know the answer to that," he said.
                    "So I do!" said Kate. "I see some of them
                        occasionally, when business calls me that way. Now, Robert, I'm so
                        well, I feel like running a footrace the first thing when I wake up every
                        morning. I'm making money, I'm  starting my boy in a safe, useful life; have you many year and
                        a half babies in your practice that can beat Little Poll? I'm as
                        happy as it's humanly possible for me to be without Mother, and
                        Polly, and Nancy Ellen. Mother used always to say that when death struck a
                        family it seldom stopped until it took three. That was my experience, and
                        saving Adam and Little Poll, it took my three dearest; but the separation
                        isn't going to be so very long. If I were you I wouldn't
                        worry about me, Robert. There are many women in the world willing to pay for
                        your consideration; save it for them."
                    "Kate, I'm sorry I said anything," he said
                        hastily. "I wouldn't offend you purposely, you
                        know."
                    Kate looked at him in surprise. "But I'm not
                        offended," she said, snapping an ear and reaching for another.
                        "I am merely telling you! Don't give me a thought!
                        I'm all right! If you'll save me an hour the next time
                        Little Poll has a tooth coming through, you'll have completely
                        earned my gratitude. Tell Agatha I'll come as soon as I finish my
                        evening work."
                    That was clearly a dismissal, for Kate glancing across the field toward Adam,
                        saw that he had advanced to a new shock, so she began husking faster than
                        before.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    THE ELEVENTH HOUR
                    
                    
                        ROBERT said good-bye and started back toward his car. Kate
                        looked after him as he reached the fence. A surge of pity for him swept up
                        in her heart. He seemed far from happy, and he surely was very tired.
                        Impulsive as always, she lifted her clear voice and called:
                        "Robert!"
                    He paused with his foot on a rail of the fence, and turned toward her.
                    "Have you had any dinner?" she asked.
                    He seemed to be considering. "Come to think of it, I don't
                        believe I have," he said.
                    "I thought you looked neglected," said Kate.
                        "Sonny across the field is starting a shock ahead of me; I
                        can't come, but go to the kitchenthe door is
                        unlockedyou'll find fried chicken and some preserves and pickles in
                        the pantry; the bread box is right there, and the milk and butter are in the
                        spring house."
                    He gave Kate one long look. "Thank you," he said and leaped
                        the fence. He stopped on the front walk and stood a minute, then he turned
                        and went around the house. She laughed aloud. She was sending him to chicken
                        perfectly cooked, barely cold, melon preserves, pickled cucumbers,  and bread like that which had for years taken
                        a County Fair prize each fall; butter yellow as the goldenrod lining the
                        fences, and cream stiff enough to stand alone. Also, he would find neither
                        germ nor mould in her pantry and spring house, while it would be a new
                        experience for him to let him wait on himself. Kate husked away in high good
                        humour, but she quit an hour early to be on time to go to Agatha. She
                        explained this to Adam, when she told him that he would have to milk alone,
                        while she bathed and dressed herself and got supper.
                    When she began to dress, Kate examined her hair minutely, and combed it with
                        unusual care. If Robert was at Agatha's when she got there, she
                        would let him see that her hair was not sunburned and ruined. To match the
                        hair dressing, she reached back in her closet and took down her second best
                        white dress. She was hoping that Agatha would be well enough to have a short
                        visit. Kate worked so steadily that she seldom saw any of her brothers and
                        sisters during the summer. In winter she spent a day with each of them, if
                        she could possibly manage. Anyway, Agatha would like to see her appearing
                        well, so she put on the plain snowy linen, and carefully pinning a big apron
                        over it, she went to the kitchen. They always had a full dinner at noon and
                        worked until dusk. Her bath had made her later than she intended to be. Dusk
                        was deepening, evening chill was beginning to creep into the air. She closed
                        the door, fed Little Poll and rolled her into bed; set the potatoes boiling,
                        and began mixing the biscuit. She had them 
                        just ready to roll when steam lifted the lid of the potato pot; with the
                        soft dough in her hand she took a step to right it. While it was in her
                        fingers, she peered into the pot.
                    She did not look up on the instant the door opened, because she thought it
                        would be Adam. When she glanced toward the door, she saw Robert standing
                        looking at her. He had stepped inside, closed the door, and with his hand on
                        the knob was waiting for her to see him.
                    "Oh! Hello!" said Kate. "I thought it was Adam.
                        Have you been to Agatha's yet?"
                    "Yes. She is very much better," he said. "I only
                        stopped to tell you that her mother happened to come out for the night, and
                        they'll not need you."
                    "I'm surely glad she is better," said Kate,
                        "but I'm rather disappointed. I've been swimming,
                        and I'm all ready to go."
                    She set the pot lid in place accurately and gave her left hand a deft turn to
                        save the dough from dripping. She glanced from it to Robert, expecting to
                        see him open the door and disappear. Instead he stood looking at her
                        intently. Suddenly he said: "Kate, will you marry me?"
                    Kate mechanically saved the dough again, as she looked at the pot an instant,
                        then she said casually: "Sure! It would be splendid to have a
                        doctor right in the house when Little Poll cuts her double teeth."
                    "Thank you!" said Robert, tersely. "No doubt that
                            would be a privilege, but I decline to marry you in
                        order to see Little Poll safely through teething. Good-night!"
                    
                    He stepped outside and closed the door very completely, and somewhat
                        pronouncedly.
                    Kate stood straight an instant, then realized biscuit dough was slowly
                        creeping down her wrist. With a quick fling, she shot the mass into the
                        scrap bucket and sinking on the chair she sat on to peel vegetables, she
                        lifted her apron, laid her head on her knees, and gave a big gulping sob or
                        two. Then she began to cry silently. A minute later the door opened again.
                        That time it had to be Adam, but Kate did not care what he saw or what he
                        thought. She cried on in perfect abandon.
                    Then steps crossed the room, someone knelt beside her, put an arm around her
                        and said: "Kate, why are you crying?"
                    Kate lifted her head suddenly, and applied her apron skirt. "None of
                        your business," she said to Robert's face, six inches from
                        hers.
                    "Are you so anxious as all this about Little Poll's
                        teeth?" he asked.
                    "Oh, drat Little Poll's teeth!"
                        cried Kate, the tears rolling uninterruptedly.
                    "Then why did you say that to me?" he
                        demanded.
                    "Well, you said you 'only stopped to tell me that I
                        needn't go to Agatha's,'" she explained.
                        "I had to say something, to get even with you!"
                    "Oh," said Robert, and took possession. Kate put her arms
                        around his neck, drew his head against hers, and knew a minute of complete
                        joy.
                    When Adam entered the house his mother was very  busy. She was mixing more biscuit dough, she was laughing like a girl of
                        sixteen, she snatched out one of their finest tablecloths, and put on many
                        extra dishes for supper, while Uncle Robert, looking like a different man,
                        was helping her. He was actually stirring the gravy, and getting the water,
                        and setting up chairs. And he was under high tension, too. He was saying
                        things of no moment, as if they were profound wisdom, and laughing
                        hilariously at things that were scarcely worth a smile. Adam looked on, and
                        marvelled and all the while his irritation grew. At last he saw a glance of
                        understanding pass between them. He could endure it no longer.
                    "Oh, you might as well say what you
                        think," he burst forth. "You forgot to pull down the
                        blinds."
                    Both the brazen creatures laughed as if that were a fine joke. They
                        immediately threw off all reserve. By the time the meal was finished, Adam
                        was struggling to keep from saying the meanest things he could think of.
                        Also, he had to go to Milly, with nothing very definite to tell. But when he
                        came back, his mother was waiting for him. She said at once: "Adam,
                        I'm very sorry the blind was up to-night. I wanted to talk to you,
                        and tell you myself, that the first real love for a man that I have ever
                        known, is in my heart to-night."
                    "Why, Mother!" said Adam.
                    "It's true," said Kate, quietly. "You see
                        Adam, the first time I ever saw Robert Gray, I knew, and he knew, that he
                        had made a mistake in engaging himself to 
                        Nancy Ellen; but the thing was done, she was happy, we simply realized that
                        we would have done better together, and let it go at that. But all these
                        years I have known that I could have made him a wife who would have come
                        closer to his ideals than my sister, and she should have
                        had the man who wanted to marry me. They would have had a wonderful time
                        together."
                    "And where did my father come in?" asked Adam, quietly.
                    "He took advantage of my blackest hour," said Kate.
                        "I married him when I positively didn't care what happened
                        to me. The man I could have loved was married to my
                        sister, the man I could have married and lived with in comfort to both of us
                        was out of the question; it was in the Bates blood to marry about the time I
                        did; I had seen only the very best of your father, and he was an attractive
                        lover, not bad looking, not embarrassed with one single scrupleit's
                        the way of the world. I took it. I paid for it. Only God knows how dearly I
                        paid; but Adam, if you love me, stand by me now. Let me have this eleventh
                        hour happiness, with no alloy. Anything I feel for your Uncle Robert has
                        nothing in the world to do with my being your mother; with you being my son.
                        Kiss me, and tell me you're glad, Adam."
                    Adam rose up and put his arms around his mother. All his resentment was gone.
                        He was happy as he could be for his mother, and happier than he ever before
                        had been for himself.
                    The following afternoon, Kate took the car and went  to see Agatha instead of husking corn. She dressed with care
                        and arrived about three o'clock, leading Poll in whitest white,
                        with cheeks still rosy from her afternoon nap. Agatha was sitting up and
                        delighted to see them. She said they were the first of the family who had
                        come to visit her, and she thought they had come because she was thinking of
                        them. Then she told Kate about her illness. She said it dated from father
                        Bates stroke, and the dreadful days immediately following, when Adam had
                        completely lost self-control, and she had not been able to influence him.
                        "I think it broke my heart," she said simply. Then they
                        talked the family over, and at last Agatha said: "Kate, what is
                        this I hear about Robert? Have you been informed that Mrs. Southey is back
                        in Hartley, and that she is working every possible chance and using
                        multifarious blandishments on him?"
                    Kate laughed heartily and suddenly. She never had heard
                        "blandishments" used in common conversation. As she
                        struggled to regain self-possession Agatha spoke again.
                    "It's no laughing matter," she said. "The
                        report has every ear-mark of verisimilitude. The Bates family has a way of
                        feeling deeply. We all loved Nancy Ellen. We all suffered severely and lost
                        something that never could be replaced when she went. Of course all of us
                        realized that Robert would enter the bonds of matrimony again; none of us
                        would have objected, even if he remarried soon; but all of us do object to
                        his marrying a woman who would have broken Nancy Ellen's heart if
                             she could; and yesterday I took advantage
                        of my illness, and told him so. Then I asked him why a man
                        of his standing and ability in this community didn't frustrate that
                        unprincipled creature's vermiculations toward him, by marrying you,
                        at once."
                    Slowly Kate sank down in her chair. Her face whitened and then grew greenish.
                        She breathed with difficulty.
                    "Oh, Agatha!" was all she could say.
                    "I do not regret it," said Agatha. "If he is going
                        to ruin himself, he is not going to do it without knowing that the Bates
                        family highly disapprove of his course."
                    "But why drag me in?" said Kate, almost too shocked to
                        speak at all. "Maybe he loves Mrs. Southey. She
                        has let him see how she feels about him; possibly he feels the same about
                        her."
                    "He does, if he weds her," said Agatha, conclusively.
                        "Anything any one could say or do would have no effect, if he had
                        centred his affections upon her, of that you may be very sure."
                    "May I?" asked Kate, dully.
                    "Indeed, you may!" said Agatha. "The male of the
                        species, when he is a man of Robert's attainments and calibre, can
                        be swerved from pursuit of the female he coverts, by nothing save
                        extinction."
                    "You mean," said Kate with an effort, "that if
                        Robert asked a woman to marry him, it would mean that he loved
                        her."
                    "Indubitably!" cried Agatha.
                    Kate laughed until she felt a little better, but she went  home in a mood far different from that in
                        which she started. Then she had been very happy, and she had intended to
                        tell Agatha about her happiness, the very first of all. Now she was far from
                        happy. Possiblya thousand things, the most possible, that Robert had
                        responded to Agatha's suggestion, and stopped and asked her that
                        abrupt question, from an impulse as sudden and inexplicable as had possessed
                        her when she married George Holt. Kate fervently wished she had gone to the
                        cornfield as usual that afternoon.
                    "That's the way it goes," she said angrily, as she
                        threw off her better dress and put on her every-day gingham to prepare
                        supper. "That's the way it goes! Stay in your element, and
                        go on with your work, and you're all right. Leave your job and go
                        trapesing over the country, wasting your time, and you get a heartache to
                        pay you. I might as well give up the idea that I'm ever to be
                        happy, like anybody else. Every time I think happiness is coming my way,
                        along comes something that knocks it higher than Gilderoy's kite.
                        Hang the luck!"
                    She saw Robert pass while she was washing the dishes, and knew he was going
                        to Agatha's, and would stop when he came back. She finished her
                        work, put Little Poll to bed, and made herself as attractive as she knew how
                        in her prettiest blue dress. All the time she debated whether she would say
                        anything to him about what Agatha had said or not. She decided she would
                        wait awhile, and watch how he acted. She thought she could soon tell. So
                        when Robert came, she was as nearly herself 
                        as possible, but when he began to talk about being married soon, the most
                        she would say was that she would begin to think about it at Christmas, and
                        tell him by spring. Robert was bitterly disappointed. He was very lonely; he
                        needed better housekeeping than his aged mother was capable of, to keep him
                        up to a high mark in his work. Neither of them was young any longer; he
                        could see no reason why they should not be married at once. Of the reason in
                        Kate's mind, he had not a glimmering. But Kate had her way. She
                        would not even talk of a time, or express an opinion as to whether she would
                        remain on the farm, or live in Nancy Ellen's house, or sell it and
                        build whatever she wanted for herself. Robert went away baffled, and
                        disappointed over some intangible thing he could not understand.
                    For six weeks Kate tortured herself, and kept Robert from being happy. Then
                        one morning Agatha stopped to visit with her, while Adam drove on to town.
                        After they had exhausted farming, Little Poll's charms, and the
                        neighbours, Agatha looked at Kate and said: "Katherine, what is
                        this I hear about Robert coming here every day, now? It appeals to me that
                        he must have followed my advice."
                    "Of course he never would have thought of coming, if you
                        hadn't told him to," said Kate dryly.
                    "Now there you are in error," said the
                        literal Agatha, as she smoothed down Little Poll's skirts and
                        twisted her ringlets into formal corkscrews. "Right there, you are in error, my dear. The reason I told Robert to
                        marry you  was because he said to me, when he
                        suggested going after you to stay the night with me, that he had seen you in
                        the field when he passed, and that you were the most glorious specimen of
                        womanhood that he ever had seen. He said you were the one to stay with me,
                        in case there should be any trouble, because your head was always level, and
                        your heart was big as a barrel."
                    "Yes, that's the reason I can't always have it
                        with me," said Kate, looking glorified instead of glorious.
                        "Agatha, it just happens to mean very much to me. Will you just
                        kindly begin at the beginning, and tell me every single word Robert said to
                        you, and you said to him, that day?"
                    "Why, I have informed you explicitly," said Agatha, using
                        her handkerchief on the toe of Poll's blue shoe. "He
                        mentioned going after you, and said what I told you, and I told him to go.
                        He praised you so highly that when I spoke to him about the Southey woman I
                        remembered it, so I suggested you to him, as he seemed to think so well of
                        you. It just that minute flashed into my mind; but he made
                        me think of it, calling you 'glorious,' and
                        'level headed,' and 'big hearted.'
                        Heavens! Katherine Eleanor, what more could you ask?"
                    "I guess that should be enough," said Kate.
                    "One certainly would presume so," said Agatha.
                    Then Adam came, and handed Kate her mail as she stood beside his car talking
                        to him a minute, while Agatha settled herself. As Kate closed the gate
                        behind her, she saw a big, square white envelope among the newspapers,
                        advertisements, and letters. She slipped it out and looked  at it intently. Then she ran her finger under
                        the flap and read the contents. She stood studying the few lines it
                        contained, frowning deeply. "Doesn't it beat the
                        band?" she asked of the surrounding atmosphere. She went up the
                        walk, entered the living room, slipped the letter under the lid of the big
                        family Bible, and, walking to the telephone, she called Dr. Gray's
                        office. He answered the call in person.
                    "Robert, this is Kate," she said. "Would you have
                        any deeply rooted objections to marrying me at six o'clock this
                        evening?"
                    "Well, I should say not!" boomed Robert's voice,
                        the "not" coming so forcibly Kate dodged.
                    "Have you got the information necessary for a license?" she
                        asked.
                    "Yes," he answered.
                    "Then bring one, and your minister, and come at six," she
                        said. "And Oh, yes, Robert, will it be all right with you if I stay
                        here and keep house for Adam until he and Milly can be married and move in?
                        Then I'll come to your house just as it is. I don't mind
                        coming to Nancy Ellen's home, as I would another
                        woman's."
                    "Surely!" he cried. "Any arrangement you make will
                        satisfy me."
                    "All right, I'll expect you with the document and the
                        minister at six, then," said Kate, and hung up the receiver.
                    Then she took it down again and calling Milly, asked her to bring her best
                        white dress, and come up right away, and help her get ready to entertain a
                        few people that evening. Then she called her sister Hannah, and  asked her if she thought that in the event
                        she, Kate, wished that evening at six o'clock to marry a very fine
                        man, and had no preparations whatever made, her family would help her out to
                        the extent of providing the supper. She wanted all of them, and all the
                        children, but the arrangement had come up suddenly, and she could not
                        possibly prepare a supper herself, for such a big family, in the length of
                        time she had. Hannah said she was perfectly sure everyone of them would drop
                        everything, and be tickled to pieces to bring the supper, and to come, and
                        they would have a grand time. What did Kate want? Oh, she wanted bread, and
                        chicken for meat, maybe some potato chips, and Angel's Food cake,
                        and a big freezer or two of Agatha's best iced cream, and she
                        thought possibly more butter, and coffee, than she had on hand. She had
                        plenty of sugar, and cream, and pickles and jelly. She would have the tables
                        all set as she did for Christmas. Then Kate rang for Adam and put a broom in
                        his hand as he entered the back door. She met Milly with a pail of hot water
                        and cloths to wash the glass. She went to her room and got out her best
                        afternoon dress of dull blue with gold lace and a pink velvet rose. She
                        shook it out and studied it. She had worn it twice on the trip North. None
                        of them save Adam ever had seen it. She put it on, and looked at it
                        critically. Then she called Milly and they changed the neck and sleeves a
                        little, took a yard of width from the skirt, and behold! it became a
                        "creation," in the very height of style. Then Kate opened
                        her trunk, and got out the petticoat,  hose,
                        and low shoes to match it, and laid them on her bed.
                    Then they set the table, laid a fire ready to strike in the cook stove, saw
                        that the gas was all right, set out the big coffee boiler, and skimmed a
                        crock full of cream. By four o'clock, they could think of nothing
                        else to do. Then Kate bathed and went to her room to dress. Adam and Milly
                        were busy making themselves fine. Little Poll sat in her prettiest dress,
                        watching her beloved "Tate," until Adam came and took her.
                        He had been instructed to send Robert and the minister to his
                        mother's room as soon as they came. Kate was trying to look her
                        best, yet making haste, so that she would be ready on time. She had made no
                        arrangements except to spread a white goatskin where she and Robert would
                        stand at the end of the big living room near her door. Before she was fully
                        dressed she began to hear young voices and knew that her people were coming.
                        When she was ready Kate looked at herself and muttered:
                        "I'll give Robert and all of them a good surprise. This is
                        a real dress, thanks to Nancy Ellen. The poor girl! It's scarcely
                        fair to her to marry her man in a dress she gave me; but I'd stake
                        my life she'd rather I'd have him than any other
                        woman."
                    It was an evening of surprises. At six, Adam lighted a big log, festooned
                        with leaves and berries so that the flames roared and crackled up the
                        chimney. The early arrivals were the young people who had hung the mantel,
                        gas fixtures, curtain poles and draped the doors with long sprays of
                        bittersweet, northern holly, and great branches  of red spice berries, dogwood with its red leaves and berries, and
                        scarlet and yellow oak leaves. The elders followed and piled the table with
                        heaps of food, then trailed red vines between dishes. In a quandary as to
                        what to wear, without knowing what was expected of him further than saying
                        "I will," at the proper moment, Robert ended by slipping
                        into Kate's room, dressed in white flannel. The ceremony was over
                        at ten minutes after six. Kate was lovely, Robert was handsome, everyone was
                        happy, the supper was a banquet. The Bates family went home, Adam
                        disappeared with Milly, while Little Poll went to sleep.
                    Left to themselves, Robert took Kate in his arms and tried to tell her how
                        much he loved her, but felt he expressed himself poorly. As she stood before
                        him, he said: "And now, dear, tell me what changed you, and why we
                        are married to-night instead of at Christmas, or in the spring."
                    "Oh, yes," said Kate, "I almost forgot! Why, I
                        wanted you to answer a letter for me."
                    "Lucid!" said Robert. He seated himself beside the table.
                        "Bring on the ink and stationery, and let me get it over."
                    Kate obeyed, and with the writing material, laid down the letter she had that
                        morning received from John Jardine, telling her that his wife had died
                        suddenly, and that as soon as he had laid her away, he was coming to exact a
                        definite promise from her as to the future; and that he would move Heaven
                        and earth before he would  again be
                        disappointed. Robert read the letter and laid it down, his face slowly
                        flushing scarlet.
                    "You called me out here, and married me expressly to answer
                        this?" he demanded.
                    "Of course!" said Kate. "I thought if you could
                        tell him that his letter came the day I married you, it would stop his
                        coming, and not be such a disappointment to him."
                    Robert pushed the letter from him violently and arose "By!"
                        he checked himself and stared at her. "Kate, you don't mean that!" he cried. "Tell me, you
                        don't mean that!"
                    "Why, sure I do," said Kate. "It
                        gave me a fine excuse. I was so homesick for you, and tired waiting to begin
                        life with you. Agatha told me about her telling you the day she was ill, to
                        marry me; and the reason I wouldn't was because I thought maybe you
                        asked me so offhandlike, because she told you to, and you
                        didn't really love me. Then this morning she was here, and we were
                        talking, and she got around to it again, and then she told me all you said, and I saw you did love me, and that you would have
                        asked me if she hadn't said anything, and I wanted you so badly.
                        Robert, ever since that day we met on the footlog, I've known that
                        you were the only man I'd ever really want to
                        marry. Robert, I've never come anywhere near loving anybody else.
                        The minute Agatha told me this morning, I began to think how I could take
                        back what I'd been saying, how I could change, and right then Adam
                        handed me that letter, and it gave me a fine way out, and so I called you.
                        Sure, I  married you to answer that, Robert;
                        now go and do it."
                    "All right," he said. "In a minute."
                    Then he walked to her and took her in his arms again, but Kate could not
                        understand why he was laughing until he shook when he kissed her.
                
                THE END
            
        
        
            
            
                There's More to Follow!
                More stories of the sort you like; more, probably, by the author of this one;
                    more than 500 titles all told by writers of world-wide reputation, in the
                    Authors' Alphabetical List which you will find on the reverse side of the wrapper of this book. Look it over before you lay
                    it aside. There are books here you are sure to wantsome, possibly, that you have
                        always wanted.
                It is a selected list; every book in it has achieved a certain
                    measure of success.
                
                The Grosset & Dunlap list is not only the greatest Index of Good Fiction
                    available, it represents in addition a generally accepted Standard of Value. It
                    will pay you to
                
                    Look on the Other Side of the Wrapper!
                
                
                    In case the wrapper is lost write to the publishers for a complete
                        catalog
                
            
        
    
