
     ----CITATION---- 
        Nicholson, Meredith, 1866-1947. The Hoosiers: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2396
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
                THE INDIANA UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
                Presented by Meredith Nicholson
            
            
            
            
            
                THE HOOSIERS
                
            
            
            
                National Studies in American Letters.
                GEORGE EDWARD WOODBERRY, EDITOR.
                
                    OLD CAMBRIDGE.
                
                By THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON.
                
                    BROOK FARM.
                
                By LINDSAY SWIFT.
                
                    THE HOOSIERS.
                
                By MEREDITH NICHOLSON.
                
                    IN PREPARATION.
                
                
                    THE CLERGY IN AMERICAN LIFE AND LETTERS.
                
                By THE REV. DANIEL DULANY ADDISON.
                
                    THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL NOVEL.
                
                By PAUL LEICESTER FORD.
                
                    THE KNICKERBOCKERS.
                
                By THE REV. HENRY
                    VAN DYKE, D.D.
                
                    SOUTHERN HUMORISTS.
                
                By JOHN KENDRICK BANGS.
                
                    FLOWER OF ESSEX.
                
                By THE EDITOR.
                
                    Others to be announced.
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE HOOSIERS
                
                BY
                    MEREDITH NICHOLSON
                
                    New York
                    THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
                    LONDON:
                    MACMILLAN AND CO., LTD.
                    1900
                        All rights reserved
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1900, By THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.
                Norwood Dress J. S. Cushing & Co., Berwick &
                    Smith Norwood Mass. U.S.A.
            
            
            
                To the Memory of CALEB MILLS
                SOMETIME PROFESSOR IN WABASH COLLEGE THE FRUITS OF WHOSE
                    ENLIGHTENMENT, FORESIGHT AND COURAGE ARE AN ENDURING HERITAGE TO
                    THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA
            
            
            
            
                PREFACE
                THESE pages represent an effort to give some hint of the
                    forces that have made for cultivation in Indiana. While the immediate purpose
                    has been an examination of the State's performance in literature, it
                    has seemed proper to approach the subject with a slight review of
                    Indiana's political and social history. Owing to limitations of space,
                    much is suggested merely which it would be profitable to discuss at length. It
                    is hoped that such matters as racial influences, folk-speech, etc., which are
                    but lightly touched here, may appeal to others who will make them the subject of
                    more searching inquiry. Only names that have seemed most significant are
                    included; many creditable writers are necessarily omitted.
                I take pleasure in acknowledging my indebtedness to Dr. Edward Eggleston, Miss
                    Anna Nicholas, and Mr. Merrill Moores for their 
                    courteous responses to many requests for information. Miss May Louise Shipp gave
                    me access to papers relating to her kinswoman, Mrs. Dumont, which I could not
                    have seen but for her kindness. Miss Eliza G. Browning, the Public Librarian of
                    Indianapolis, Mr. H. S. Wedding, the Librarian of Wabash College, and Mr.
                    Charles R. Dudley, of the Denver Library, were most generous and indulgent on my
                    behalf.
                M. N.
                DENVER, July, 1900.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    CHAPTER
                    I INDIANA
                        AND
                        HER PEOPLE
                        1
                        
                    CHAPTER II THE RURAL TYPE
                        AND
                        THE DIALECT
                    
                    The Word "Hoosier" 29
                        
                    Pioneer Difficulties 36
                    The Dialect 45
                    CHAPTER III BRINGERS
                        OF
                        THE LIGHT
                    
                    Religious Influences 63
                        
                    Early Illiteracy 70
                    Caleb Mills 79
                    Julia L. Dumont and Catharine Merrill 89
                    CHAPTER IV AN EXPERIMENT
                        IN SOCIALISM
                    
                    New Harmony 98
                        
                    Robert Dale Owen and William Maclure 101
                    Thomas Say and the Scientists 104
                    
                    CHAPTER V THE HOOSIER INTERPRETED
                    
                    Edward Eggleston 134
                        
                    James Whitcomb Riley 156
                        
                    CHAPTER VI CRAWFORDSVILLE
                    
                    "The Hoosier Athens" 177
                        
                    Lew Wallace 180
                        
                    Maurice Thompson 199
                        
                    Mary H. Krout and Caroline V. Krout 212
                        
                    CHAPTER VII "OF MAKING MANY BOOKS
                        THERE
                        IS
                        NO END"
                    Indiana a Point of Departure 214
                        
                    Fiction 217
                        
                    History and Politics 226
                        
                    Miscellaneous 237
                        
                    CHAPTER VIII AN INDIANA CHOIR
                    
                    Early Writers 244
                        
                    Forceythe Willson and Elizabeth Conwell Willson 256
                        
                    Later Poets 265
                        
                    The Hoosier Landscape 269
                    INDEX
                        273
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE HOOSIERS
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    INDIANA AND HER PEOPLE
                    THE rise of Indiana as an enlightened commonwealth has
                        been accompanied by phenomena of unusual interest and variety, and whatever
                        contributions the State may make to the total of national achievement in any
                        department of endeavor are to be appraised in the light of her history and
                        development. The origin of the beginners of the State, the influences that
                        wrought upon them, the embarrassments that have attended the later
                        generations in their labors, become matters of moment in any inquiry that is
                        directed to their intellectual history. It is not of so great importance
                        that a few individuals within a State shall, from time to time, show talent
                        or genius, as that the general level of cultivation in the community shall
                        be continually raised. Where, as in Indiana, the appearance of artistic
                        talent follows naturally an intellectual development that uplifts the whole,
                             the condition presented is at once
                        interesting and admirable. Owing to a misapprehension of the
                        State's social history, an exaggerated importance has been given to
                        the manifestations of creative talent perceptible in Indiana, the assumption
                        being in many quarters that the Hoosier Commonwealth is in some way set
                        apart from her neighbors by reason of the uncouthness and ignorance of the
                        inhabitants; and the word "Hoosier" has perhaps been
                        unfortunate as applied to Indianians in that it has sometimes been taken as
                        a synonym for boorishness and illiteracy. The Indiana husbandmen, even in
                        the pioneer period, differed little or not at all from the settlers in other
                        territorial divisions of the West and Southwest; and the early Indiana town
                        folk were the peers of any of their fellows of the urban class in the Ohio
                        Valley.
                    The Indianians came primarily of American stock, and they have been
                        influenced much less than the majority of their neighbors in other states by
                        the currents of alien migration that have flowed around and beyond them. The
                        frontiersmen, who carried the rifle and the axe 
                        to make way for the plough, were brave, hardy, and intelligent; and those
                        who accompanied them and became builders of cities and framers and
                        interpreters of law, were their kinsmen, and possessed the natural qualities
                        and the cultivation that would have made them conspicuous anywhere. The
                        Indianians remained in a striking degree the fixed population of the
                        territory that fell to them. They were sustained and lifted by religion
                        through all their formative years, and when aroused to the importance of
                        education were quick to insure intelligence in their posterity. The artistic
                        impulse appeared naturally in later generations. The value of the literature
                        produced in the State may be debatable, but there is no just occasion for
                        surprise that attention to literary expression has been so general.
                    Indiana has always lain near the currents of national life, and her
                        beginnings were joined to the larger fortunes of the national destiny. Three
                        flags have been emblems of government in her territory, and wars whose
                        principal incidents occurred far from the western wilderness played an
                        important part in her history. Early  in the
                        eighteenth century the French settled on the Wabash, which was an essential
                        link in the chain of communication between the settlements of the St.
                        Lawrence and Great Lakes and those of the Lower Mississippi; and the coureurs des bois, as they guided their frail navies up
                        and down the stream, or sang their chansons de voyage as
                        they lay in lonely camps, gave the first color of romance to the Hoosier
                        country. The treaty signed at Paris, February 10, 1763, ended French
                        dominion and brought British rule. The American Revolution made itself felt
                        on the Wabash when, in 1779, George Rogers Clark effected the capture of
                        Fort Vincennes from a British commander. The first territorial governor of
                        Indiana became the ninth president of the United States after the rollicking
                        hard cider campaign of "Tippecanoe and Tyler too"; and
                        when, years afterward, Benjamin Harrison, his grandson, was elected
                        twenty-third president, the bonds between State and Nation were close and
                        strong. Indiana valiantly defended herself against the Indians in the War of
                        1812; she sent five regiments to the Mexican War, equipped 208,300  volunteers for the war of the rebellion, and
                        7300 for the war with Spain. Slavery was an issue on Indiana soil long
                        before the Northwest Territory had been divided. At a convention held at
                        Vincennes in 1802, a year and a half after the organization of Indiana
                        Territory, a memorial was sent to the National Congress asking that the
                        antislavery proviso in the ordinance of 1787 be repealed, and slavery was
                        thereafter a potent influence in territorial politics until the admission of
                        Indiana, as a free state, in 1816.1
                        
                            1
                            Dunn's "Indiana," p. 302 et
                                    seq.
                            
                        
                    
                    The victories of George Rogers Clark were not only of great importance in
                        determining the future political relations of the Northwest Territory, but
                        they defined the character of the population that should dominate in the
                        region he conquered. The Ohio was the highway that led into the new world,
                        and the first comers to Indiana in the years immediately following the
                        Revolution were mainly drawn either directly from Pennsylvania, the
                        Carolinas, or Virginia, or were of that fascinating band of hunters and
                        frontiersmen of similar origin, who had only  a
                        few years earlier begun the redemption of Tennessee and Kentucky from
                        savagery. Ken tucky was a temporary resting-place for many who later drifted
                        West and Northwest; and their descendants, markedly of Scotch-Irish origin,
                        are still clearly defined in Indiana. Philadelphia and Charleston were the
                        two ports to which these Presbyterian Irish came in greatest numbers in the
                        early years of the eighteenth century. They at once left the seaboard
                        settlements and spread along the Alleghanies, the Pennsylvanians moving
                        southward until they met their Carolina brethren, when the united stream
                        swept with fresh strength boldly into the Ohio Valley. Emigration from the
                        north of Ireland "waxed and waned," says Dr.
                            Eggleston,1 "as the great Irish linen industry of the last century
                        declined or prospered." Some of these people were steady and
                        thrifty; others were reckless and adventurous. The frontier life afforded an
                        outlet for their wild spirits, and Indian wars and the hunting of big game
                        were their congenial employments. The Germans, also derived from
                        Pennsylvania  and the Carolinas, joined the
                        westward stream; the English, the Dutch, and the Swiss added to it in
                        varying degree, but the North-Irish element, dating from the earliest
                        settlement, was long potent in politics, society, and religion, and became a
                        most important factor in Indiana history.
                            1
                            Preface to "The Hoosier Schoolmaster," Library
                                Edition.
                        
                    
                    Northern Indiana was settled much more slowly than the southern half of the
                        State, owing primarily to the fierce resistance of the Miami Confederacy,
                        which barred ingress by way of the lakes, rivers, and portages, and defeated
                        successive armies that were sent against it. When the way was opened, the
                        Middle States and New England slowly contributed to the population. Many of
                        these immigrants paused first in the Western Reserve of Ohio, and a smaller
                        proportion in Michigan. It is a question for the scientists whether the
                        differences still observable between the people of the northern prairie
                        region in Indiana and those of the woodland areasdifferences of thrift,
                        energy, and initiative1are not due as much to natural conditions as to
                        racial influences; and they may also have an explanation  of the fact that Indiana's literary
                        activity has been observed principally in the southern half of the State,
                        below a line drawn through Craw-fordsville. The seniority of the southern
                        settlements is not a wholly satisfactory solution, and the difference in
                        antecedents invites speculation.
                            1
                            McCulloch's "Men and Measures," p. 78.
                        
                    
                    It happened fortunately that the worst element contributed to the population
                        of Indiana and Illinois in early yearsknown as "poor
                        whites"was the least permanent. Dr. Eggleston describes them as
                        "a semi-nomadic people, descendants of the colonial
                            bond-servants,"1 who moved on in large numbers to Missouri so early
                        as 1845, and thence from the famous Pike County scattered widely, appearing
                        finally in California, where Bret Harte took note of them. Professor Fiske
                        in his account of the dispersion of these people2 does not mention
                        Indiana as one of their outlets, and the State's proportion was
                        unquestionably small. Romance has not attached to them where they linger in
                        Southern Indiana, although they are of the same strain as their kindred at
                        the south who have  so often delighted the
                        readers of fiction. By way of illustration it may be said that in the hills
                        of Brown County the traveller passes here and there a rude wagon drawn by
                        oxen. A dusty native walks beside the team, and seated on the floor of the
                        wagon is an old grandmother, smoking a clay pipe with great contentment. The
                        same picture may be met with in the Kentucky and Tennessee mountains, but
                        with the difference that in those regions the story-tellers have woven the
                        spell of romance about the hill folk, whereas in Indiana similar characters
                        are looked upon as ugly and uninteresting.
                            1
                            Preface to "The Hoosier Schoolmaster," Library
                                Edition.
                        
                        
                            2
                            "Old Virginia and Her Neighbors," 11, 320.
                        
                    
                    The rural and urban classes produced a first generation that realized a type
                        drawing strength from both farm and town and destined to steady improvement
                        throughout the century. New people poured in from the Eastern States and
                        from Europe; but in no old community of the seaboard has loftier dignity
                        been conferred by long residence or pioneer ancestry than in Indiana. This
                        pride was brought in more particularly from the Southeast, and there are
                        still communities in which the stranger will be sensible of it. The native
                        Americans of Indiana have  continued the
                        dominant element to a greater extent than in most Northern States, 74 per
                        cent of the total population in 1890 consisting of natives; 20 per cent of
                        natives of other States; while the foreign-born population comprised only 6
                        per cent of the total.1 In the larger cities, as Indianapolis, Evansville,
                        and Fort Wayne, the Germans had an important part from the beginning, and
                        the Irish were well distributed; but before the Scandinavians and Slavs had
                        begun to seek homes in America, the land values in Indiana had so
                        appreciated that this class of immigrants could find no footing. The centre
                        of population in the United States, which lay just east of Baltimore in the
                        first decade of the century, moved gradually westward, until, in the last
                        decade, it lay in Indiana at a point sixty-five miles south of
                            Indianapolis.
                            1
                            Statistical Atlas, U. S. Census, 1890, p. 24.
                        
                    
                    The older Indiana towns enjoyed in their beginnings all the benefits that may
                        be bestowed upon new communities by a people of good social antecedents.
                        Many of these towns have lost their prestige, owing to changed political or
                        commercial  conditions; the departed glory of
                        some of them is only a tradition among the elders; but the charm of many
                        remains. Indiana, as Territory and State, has had three political capitals,
                        Vincennes and Corydon having enjoyed the distinction before Indianapolis
                        finally attained it. Vincennes, however, refused to fall with her political
                        dethronement, but built upon her memories, and became "no mean
                        city." In 1847 the railway connecting Madison with Indianapolis was
                        completed. Madison was thus made the gateway of the State, and one of the
                        most important shipping points on the Ohio, with daily steam packet to
                        Cincinnati and Louisville; but this prosperity was only temporary, for east
                        and west lines of railway soon drew the traffic away from the river. Madison
                        retains its dignity in spite of reverses, and is marked by an air of quaint
                        gravity. It may be called picturesque without offence to the inhabitants,
                        who rejoice in its repose and natural beauty, and do not complain because
                        their wharves are not so busy as they used to be. The social life there had
                        a distinction of its own, which has not vanished, though the names
                        identified with the town's fame 
                        Lanier, Hendricks, Bright, King, and Marshallhave slowly disappeared, and
                        few of the old rgime remain. The juxtaposition of Kentucky was not without
                        an influence in the years of the town's ascendancy, and there was
                        no little sympathy with Southern political ideas in the antebellum days.
                    Brookville is another town which, like Madison, sent forth many men to bring
                        fame to other communities. It lies in the White Water Valley, amid one of
                        the loveliest landscapes in all Hoosierdom. The Wallaces, the Nobles, and
                        the Rays were identified with the place, and each of these families gave a
                        governor to the State. Abram A. Hammond, still another governor, lived there
                        for a short time, as did James B. Eads, the distinguished engineer, who was
                        a native of Lawrenceburg; and William M. Chase, the artist, also a native
                        Hoosier, is on Brookville's list of notables. John D. Howland and
                        his brother, Livingston, lived there before their removal to Indianapolis,
                        where the former was one of the most cultivated men of his day, and the
                        latter a creditable judge, and a wit much quoted by his contemporaries.
                        Centerville  lives principally in its memories,
                        having been the home of the Mortons, and of others who attained distinction.
                        The removal of the seat of Wayne County to Richmond dealt the town a blow
                        from which it has never recovered, though it shares with its successful
                        rival in the reputation which the county enjoys for the cultivation of its
                        people. The family of Robert Underwood Johnson was prominent in Wayne
                        County; and though the poet and editor was not born there, he lived in the
                        county from early infancy until his graduation in 1871 from Earlham College,
                        whose seat is Richmond. His cousin, Mrs. Alice Williams Brotherton, the
                        author of two volumes of verse, and a contributor to the periodicals, lived
                        as a young woman at Cambridge, in the same county. Fort Wayne has always
                        stood a little apart from the capital and the other towns lying nearer the
                        Ohio. This has been due to its geographical position and direct railway
                        connection with Chicago and the seaboard cities. Socially and commercially
                        it has not been so intimately related to the capital as most of the other
                        Indiana towns; but it was an important centre, with unmistakable  metropolitan airs almost as soon as
                        Indianapolis. Fort Wayne's list of distinguished citizens has
                        included Hugh McCulloch, a native of Maine, who was Secretary of the
                        Treasury under two presidents, and Jesse Lynch Williams, of North Carolina
                        Quaker stock, who was prominently identified with canal and railroad
                        building in Indiana. Mr. Williams was a leader in good works throughout his
                        long life. Mr. McCulloch wrote "Men and Measures," a
                        volume of memoirs, and his family has produced a poet. A grandson and
                        namesake of Mr. Williams is the author of several volumes of fiction.
                    Latayette is one of the most attractive of Indiana cities, fortunate in its
                        natural setting and in the friendliness of its people to all good endeavors.
                        Purdue University, the state school of technology, which is situated there,
                        is not diligent in the sciences to the neglect of the arts. Roswell Smith
                        (18291892), the founder of the Century Magazine, practised
                        law for twenty years at Lafayette. Terre Haute has been the home of
                        distinguished politicians rather than of famous literary folk; but Richard
                        W. Thompson, who became Secretary  of the Navy
                        in President Hayes's cabinet, was a writer of books; and Daniel W.
                        Voorhees, long a senator in Congress, was the greatest forensic orator of
                        his day in the Ohio Valley. Voorhees had none of the qualities essential in
                        a great lawyer, but he was most effective as a speaker before the people.
                        The code of 1852 contained a provision giving to the defence the final plea
                        to the jury in criminal trials; but this was changed in 1873 because it had
                        become notorious that Voorhees and others of similar persuasive powers could
                        almost invariably procure the acquittal of persons charged with the gravest
                        crimes by appealing to the natural sympathies and domestic attachments of
                        the jurors. Voorhees received from Berry Sulgrove the name of the
                        "tall sycamore of the Wabash." His appearance was
                        commanding, and many of the dangerous qualities that go to the making of
                        personal magnetism were combined in him. Thomas H. Nelson, also of the Terre
                        Haute group, was worthy to be named with Thompson and Voorhees as an orator,
                        though never so widely known as they. He was a native  of Kentucky, and an accomplished man of the world, who filled
                        acceptably several diplomatic positions. Salem, in Washington County, is
                        another of the older towns that contained in its earliest years families of
                        marked cultivation. John Hay, the author, diplomat, and cabinet officer, and
                        Newton Booth, governor of California and senator in Congress from that
                        State, were born there. At least one generation benefited by the instruction
                        of John I. Morrison, sometimes called "the Hoosier
                        Arnold," who sent out from the Salem Seminary in the third decade
                        of the century a group of men destined to take high place in nearly every
                        field that called for character and intelligence. Hanover, the seat of
                        Hanover College, enjoyed a somewhat similar atmosphere, and Noble Butler,
                        who afterward became, at Louisville, the teacher in literature and elocution
                        of Mary Anderson, the actress, was one of the Hanover faculty.
                    Indianapolis was planned under the direction of Christopher Harrison, a man
                        of varied talents, who buried himself in the wilderness of Southern Indiana
                        early in the century, followed  by the shadowy
                        tradition that he had been an unsuccessful suitor for the hand of Miss
                        Patterson, the famous Baltimore beauty who married Jerome Bonaparte.
                        Emerging from his exile, he became a resident of Salem, sought consolation
                        in politics, and was elected lieutenant-governor in 1816. Among those who
                        assisted in marking the lines of the new city was Alexander Ralston, a
                        Scotchman, who had aided in a similar task at the national capital, and who
                        brought to his work a fancy for diagonal avenues and broad streets
                        pleasantly suggestive of Washington. Ralston was said to have been obscurely
                        implicated in Burr's conspiracy; but he became a resident within
                        the boundaries he had drawn for the capital in the woods, and died there, an
                        exemplary citizen. Indianapolis was named by Jeremiah Sullivan, in the
                        legislature of 1821, which formally designated the site of the new capital.
                        The older towns on the Ohio and in the White Water Valley contributed at
                        once to the population of the place, and the currents of migration from the
                        East and South met there. Dr. Eggleston described the town  in his novel "Roxy" as it
                        appeared in 1840:
                    "The stumps stood in the streets; the mud was only navigable to a
                        man on a tall horse; the buildings were ugly and unpainted, the people were
                        raw immigrants dressed in butternut jeans, and for the most part afflicted
                        either with the 'agur' or the 'yellow
                        janders'; the taverns were new wooden buildings with swinging signs
                        that creaked in the wind, their floors being well coated with a yellow adobe from the boots of the guests. The alkaline biscuits
                        on the table were yellow like the floors; the fried
                        'middling' looked much the same; the general yellowness
                        had extended to the walls and the bed clothing, and, combined with the
                        butternut jeans and copperas-dyed linsey-woolsey of the clothes, it gave the
                        universe an air of having the jaundice."
                    Old residents pronounce the description unfair; but however crude the earlier
                        years may have been, the founders were faithful to the settlement, and among
                        those who were there before 1840 were the Fletcher, Morris, Merrill, Coe,
                        Ray, Blake, Sharpe, Yandes, and Holliday families, which were to be
                        associated with the best that was thought and done in the community. In 1839
                        Henry Ward Beecher became pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church, and he
                        was a useful citizen through the nine years of his  residence. Good lecture courses were provided so early as 1855,
                        and Edward Everett, Bayard Taylor, Dr. Holland, Theodore Parker, Park
                        Benjamin, and Ole Bull were cordially welcomed. The Civil War disturbed the
                        old order, lifting into social and political prominence men who had had no
                        connection with the original leaders. Unfriendly feeling between the Eastern
                        element and the Southerners had already been manifested in political
                        contests, and the war greatly intensified it.
                        "Copper-head" was the term of most odious significance
                        known to the majority of Indianians during the war, and it continued to be
                        such for many years afterward.
                    The club idea took hold in Indiana early, and societies for the study of art,
                        music, and literature have by no means been limited to the capital. The
                        Indianapolis Literary Club, formed in 1877, has illustrated perhaps better
                        than any other expression of the life of Indiana, the quality of the men who
                        have dominated there in the last three decades. In a State where not to be
                        an author is to be distinguished, the members have written and read  their essays in that spirit of true
                        cultivation which takes its aspirations and attainments as a matter of
                        course, and not too seriously. A president and a vice-president of the
                        United States have been on the club's rolls, as have cabinet
                        officers, senators in Congress and foreign ministers; but literary and
                        ethical questions, oftener than political problems, have vexed its
                        discussions, and it has been more interested as a society in Newman, Arnold,
                        and Emerson, and in the thwarting of the Zeitgeist, than
                        in material things. The women of Indiana have been important contributors to
                        all agencies that tend toward ideal living, and at Indianapolis they have
                        exerted an intelligent and beneficent influence in literature.
                    The first governors and law-givers were distinctly not of the bucolic type;
                        and it is an interesting fact of Indiana history that in an agricultural
                        State, where the "farmer's vote" has been
                        essential to the winning party, farmers have rarely found their way to the
                        governor's chair. James D. Williams, familiarly known as
                        "Blue Jeans," who was elected over Benjamin Harrison in
                        1876, was the first  farmer pure and simple to
                        hold the office of governor; and this was not until Indiana had been sixty
                        years a State, and had passed beyond the period in which an appeal to
                        "Jeffersonian simplicity" would naturally have been most
                        potent. The second farmer to be elected governor was Claude Matthews, who
                        was a candidate in the year of Mr. Cleveland's second success, and
                        he was a college graduate and a man of affairs, and not really of the farmer
                        type. When, in 1896, for the third time, the State went to the country for a
                        governor, James A. Mount, a scientific farmer and reformer of farm methods,
                        was chosen. The name of Posey County has long been used as a synonym for any
                        dark and forbidding land; but the public services of Thomas Posey, the last
                        of Indiana's territorial governors, for whom the district was
                        named, were of marked variety and value, so that the name can hardly be used
                        as a term of opprobrium, particularly of the county that harbored the New
                        Harmony settlement. After Indiana had gained the dignity of statehood, and
                        throughout her earlier years, she continued fortunate in the  class of men to whom she gave her highest
                        honors. Jennings, the first governor, was a native of New Jersey. He was a
                        fair scholar and wrote creditable English. The Hendricks family came from
                        Pennsylvania and contributed two governors to the State, and a
                        vice-president to the nation; and the name remains after a century locally
                        significant of character and attainment. David Wallace, the father of
                        General Lew Wallace, and Joseph A. Wright, who was prominent in affairs in
                        the earlier half of the century, were natives of Pennsylvania. Wallace had
                        been educated at West Point, but resigned from the army to take up the law;
                        he became noted as an orator and was governor of the State. Wright who paid
                        his way through Indiana University by acting as janitor, became governor,
                        sat in the United States Senate, and was minister to Prussia. Governor
                        Whitcomb was a native of Vermont, Governor Willard of New York, and Morton,
                        the foremost man of the Civil War period in the State, was a native
                        Indianian.
                    Isaac Blackford (17861859), for thirty-five years a justice of the Supreme
                        Court in Indiana,  was a native of New Jersey
                        and an alumnus of Princeton. He was one of the ablest judges the State has
                        ever known, and his opinions as they appear in the eight volumes of reports
                        which he published are models of lucid and direct writing. The law has
                        always been served in Indiana by able men; and it is a satisfaction to
                        contemplate the bench and bar of the earliest times, when the court was
                        itinerant. Under the first constitution the Circuit Court bench consisted of
                        a presiding judge, who sat in all the courts of a circuit, and of two
                        associate justices, elected in each county, who were usually not lawyers.
                        They were supposed to insure an element of commonsense equity in the
                        judiciary, and even had power to overrule the presiding judge and give the
                        opinion of the court. But the lawyers had little respect for the associate
                        justices, and if the presiding judge could not attend a sitting of the
                        court, they declined to submit important cases, and sought diversion at the
                        expense of the associate justices by raising profound questions of abstract
                        law. An attorney named Pitcher once used the phrase deminimis
                                 non curat lex before an associate
                        justice described by Robert Dale Owen as an illiterate farmer, short of
                        stature, lean of person, and acrid of temper. The learned counsel had
                        expected to translate for the benefit of the bench, but before he could
                        speak, the justice interrupted impatiently, "Come, Pitcher, none of
                        your Pottawattomie; give us plain English." The lawyer did not
                        pause or look at the court, but continued talking to the jury. "The
                        case," said he, "turns chiefly on that well-known legal
                        axiom which I have already had occasion to bring to your notice, de minimis non curat lex, which, when reduced to the
                        capacity of this honorable court, means observe, gentlemen, means that the
                        law does not care for little, trifling things, and," turning
                        sharply around on the diminutive figure of the justice, "neither do
                        I!"
                    The first court houses were usually frame or log buildings of two rooms, one
                        for the grand jury and the other for the court. A pole stretched across the
                        room separated the members of the bar from the populace. Spectators
                        travelled hundreds of miles to attend court and  hear the lawyers "plead." The young attorneys, called
                        "squires," long clung to the queue as a kind of badge of
                        their profession, and were prone to disport themselves before the rustics in
                        the court yards of strange towns.1 Good humor prevailed on the
                        circuit; the long horseback journeys brought health and appetite, and
                        cheerful landlords welcomed the bar at every county seat. Good horses,
                        trained to corduroy roads and swimming, were a necessary part of the
                        lawyer's equipment; and a little quiet horse-trading between
                        court-sittings was not considered undignified. The itinerant courts
                        contributed to the political advantage of the attorneys, taking them
                        constantly before the people of a wide area. Political ambition was usual,
                        and the lawyers frequently cherished the hope of sitting in the State
                        legislature, or of reaching the bench, with a State office or the United
                        States Senate as their farthest goal.
                            1
                            Smith's "Early Indiana Trials," p. 6.
                        
                    
                    The even balance maintained between the two greater parties in Indiana
                        through many years gave a zest to all political contests.  Whether the Hoosiers have expressed wise
                        preferences or not in the years in which their vote has been of consequence
                        in national struggles may be questioned, but it is interesting to remember
                        that Indiana and New York gave their electoral vote for the same candidate
                        for the presidency at every election between 1872 and 1896, and that their
                        vote in all these years, except in 1876, was with the winning side.
                        Political independence has been fostered to good purpose; in recent years
                        there have been instances of praiseworthy courage in the protest against
                        party tyranny. In no other Western State has the idea of the merit system
                        been propagated so vigorously as in Indiana. Lucius B. Swift, of
                        Indianapolis, and William Dudley Foulke, of Richmond, were leaders in the
                        movement for civil service reform, and enlisted under them from the
                        beginning in a roll of honor were Oliver T. Morton, Louis Howland, Charles
                        S. and Allen Lewis, of Indianapolis, and Henry M. Williams, of Fort Wayne.
                        Indiana University and Franklin and Butler Colleges also gave moral support.
                        Mr. Swift began, in 1889, the Chronicle, a small paper  whose publication was not undertaken for
                        profit. For seven years, or until its object had been attained, he made it a
                        merciless assailant of civil service abuses, local and national. When the
                        historian of civil service reform comes to his task he will find that the
                            Chronicle has in many ways simplified his labors.
                    The successes of several Indiana authors were a great stimulus to literary
                        ambition in Indiana; and the literary clubs were an additional
                        encouragement. Poetry seems to the amateur much more easily achieved than
                        prose, and poets rose in every quarter of the State in the years following
                        the general recognition of James Whitcomb Riley and Maurice Thompson. There
                        was a time in Indiana when it was difficult to forecast who would next turn
                        poet, suggesting the Tractarian period in England, of which Birrell writes
                        that so prolific were the pamphleteers at the high tide of the movement that
                        a tract might at any time be served upon one suddenly, like a
                        sheriff's process. At Indianapolis the end seemed to have been
                        reached when a retired banker, who had never been suspected, began to
                        inveigle friends into his office on the 
                        pretence of business, but really to read them his own verses. Charles
                        Dennis, a local journalist, declared that there had appeared in the
                        community a peculiar crooking of the right elbow and a furtive sliding of
                        the hand into the left inside pocket, which was an unfailing preliminary to
                        the reading of a poem. Rhyming is, however, the least harmful of amusements,
                        and so fastidious a poet as Gray expressed his belief that even a bad verse
                        is better than the best observation ever made upon it.
                    
                        "But Time, who soonest drops the heaviest things
                        That weight his pack, will carry diamonds
                            long;"
                    
                    and as the office of the discourager of genius is an ungrateful one, it is
                        doubtless well that many should implore the gods, in the faith that an
                        occasional prayer will be answered.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    THE RURAL TYPE AND THE DIALECT
                    THE origin of the term "Hoosier" is not
                        known with certainty. It has been applied to the inhabitants of Indiana for
                        many years, and, after "Yankee," it is probably the
                        sobriquet most famous as applied to the people of a particular division of
                        the country. So early as 1830. "Hoosier" must have had an
                        accepted meaning, within the State at least, for John Finley printed in that
                        year, as a New Year's address for the Indianapolis Journal, a poem called "The Hoosier Nest," in
                        which the word occurs several times. It is a fair assumption that its
                        meaning was not obscure, or it would not have been used in a poem intended
                        for popular reading. "Hoosier" seems to have found its
                        first literary employment in Finley's poem. Sulgrove, who was an
                        authority in matters of local history, was disposed to concede this  point.1 The poem is interesting for its
                        glimpse of Indiana rural life of the early period. Finley was a Virginian
                        who removed to Indiana in 1823 and had been living in the State seven years
                        when he published his poem. He was an accomplished and versatile gentleman,
                        and his verses, as collected in 1866, show superior talents. One of his
                        poems, "Bachelor's Hall," has often been
                        attributed to Thomas Moore. The "Hoosier Nest" is the home
                        of a settler, which a traveller hailed at nightfall. Receiving a summons to
                        enter, the stranger walked in,
                            1
                            "History of Indianapolis and Marion County," p.
                            72.
                        
                    
                    
                        "Where half a dozen Hoosieroons
                        With mush-and-milk, tin cups and spoons.
                        White heads, bare feet and dirty faces
                        Seemed much inclined to keep their places."
                    
                    The stranger was invited to a meal of venison, milk, and johnny-cake, and as
                        he sat at the humble board he made an inventory of the cabin's
                        contents:
                    
                        "One side was lined with divers garments,
                        The other spread with skins of varmints;
                    
                    
                    
                        Dried pumpkins overhead were strung,
                        Where venison hams in plenty hung;
                        Two rifles placed above the door;
                        Three dogs lay stretched upon the floor,
                        In short, the domicile was rife
                        With specimens of Hoosier life."
                    
                    "Hoosieroons" is never heard now, and was probably invented
                        by Finley for the sake of the rhyme. Both Governor Wright and O. H. Smith
                        were of the opinion that "Hoosier" was a corruption of
                        "Who's here" (yere or hyer); and Smith1 has sought to dramatize its
                            history:
                            1
                            "Early Indiana Trials," p. 450.
                        
                    
                    "The night was dark, the rain falling in torrents, when the inmates
                        of a small log cabin in the woods of early Indiana were aroused from their
                        slumbers by a low knocking at the only door of the cabin. The man of the
                        house, as he had been accustomed to do on like occasions, rose from his bed
                        and hallooed, 'Who's here?' The outsiders
                        answered, 'Friends, out bird-catching. Can we stay till
                        morning?' The door was opened, and the strnagers entered. A good
                        log fire soon gave light and warmth to the room. Stranger to the host:
                        'What did you say when I knocked?' 'I said,
                        Who's here?' 'I thought you said
                        Hoosier.' The bird-catchers left after breakfast, but next night
                        returned and hallooed at the door, 'Hoosier;' and from
                        that time the Indianians have been called Hoosiers."
                    
                    This is the explanation usually given to inquirers within the State. The
                        objection has sometimes been raised to this story, that the natural reply to
                        a salutation in the wilderness would be "Who's
                        there?" out of which "Hoosier" could hardly be
                        formed; but careful observers of Western and Southern dialects declare that
                        "Who's hyer?" was, and in obscure localities
                        remains, the common answer to a midnight hail.
                    Sulgrove related the incident of an Irishman, employed in excavating the
                        canal around the falls at Louisville, who declared after a fight in which he
                        had vanquished several fellow-laborers that he was "a
                        husher," and this was offered as a possible origin of the word. The
                        same writer suggested another explanation, that a certain Colonel
                        Lehmanowski, a Polish officer who lectured through the West on
                        Napoleon's wars, pronounced Hussar in a way that captivated some
                        roystering fellow, who applied the word to himself in self-glorification,
                        pronouncing it "Hoosier." Lehmanowski's identity
                        has been established as a sojourner in Indiana, and his son was a member of
                        an Indiana  regiment in the Civil War. The Rev.
                        Aaron Woods1 is another contributor to the literature of the subject, giving the
                        Lehmanowski story with a few variations. When the young men of the Indiana
                        side of the Ohio crossed over to Louisville, the Kentuckinas made sport of
                        them, calling them "New Purchase greenies," and declaring
                        that they of the southern side of the river were a superior race, composed
                        of "half-alligator, half-horse, and tipped off with snapping
                        turtle!" Fighting grew out of these boasts in the market place and
                        streets of Louisville. An Indiana visitor who had heard Lehmanowski lecture
                        on "The Wars of Europe" and been captivated by the prowess
                        of the Hussars, whipped one of the Kentuckians, and bending over him cried,
                        "I'm a Hoosier," meaning, "I'm
                        a Hussar." Mr. Woods adds that he was living in the State at the
                        time and that this was the true origin of the term. This is, however, hardly
                        conclusive. The whole Lehmanowski story seems to be based on communication
                        between Indiana and Kentucky workmen during the building of the Ohio Falls
                        Canal. The original  canal was completed in
                        1830; and as the Polish soldier was not in this region earlier than 1840,
                        ten years after the appearance of Finley's poem, it is clear that
                        those who would reach the truth of the matter must go back of "The
                        Hoosier Nest" to find secure ground. No one has ever pretended that
                        Finley originated the word, and it is not at all likely that he did so; but
                        his poem gave it wide currency, and doubtless had much to do with fixing it
                        on the Indianians. Bartlett, in his "Dictionary of
                        Americanisms," gives the novel solution of the problem that the men
                        of superior strength throughout the early West, the heroes of log-rollings
                        and house-raisings, were called "hushers" because of their
                        ability to hush or quiet their antagonists; and that
                        "husher" was a common term for a bully. The Ohio River
                        boatmen carried the word to New Orleans, where a foreigner among them, in
                        attempting to apply the word to himself, pronounced it
                        "Hoosier." Sulgrove may have had this meaning in mind in
                        citing his Irishman, though he is not explicit. Hoosier as a Christian name
                        has been known in the Ohio Valley; it was borne by a member of the Indiana
                             Methodist Conference in 1835. A Louisville
                        baker named Hoosier made a variety of sweet bread which was so much affected
                        by Indiana people that they were called "Hoosier's
                        customers." "Hoosier's men," and so on;
                        but no date can be found for this. The Rev. T. A. Goodwin, first heard the
                        word at Cincinnati in 1830, where it described a species of gingerbread, but
                        without reference to Indiana.
                            1
                            "Sketches," p. 45.
                        
                    
                    It is clear that the cultivated people of Indiana recognized the nickname in
                        the early half of the century. Wright and Smith, as mentioned above, had
                        sought to determine its genesis; and Tilghman A. Howard, when a congressman
                        from Indiana, writing home to a friend in 1840, spoke casually of the
                        "Hoosier State."1 The word occurs familiarly in
                        Hall's "New Purchase" (1855), and it is found
                        also in Beste's rare volume, "The Wabash; or, Adventures
                        of an English Gentleman's Family in the Interior of
                        America," published at London in the same year, and in Mrs.
                        Beecher's "From Dawn to Daylight" (1859). And
                        when, in  1867, Sandford C. Cox published a
                        book of verses containing the couplet,
                            1
                            Woollen's "Sketches," p. 265.
                        
                    
                    
                        "If Sam is right, I would suggest
                        A native Hoosier as the best,"
                    
                    the word was widely known, and thereafter it frequently occurs in all printed
                        records touching the State. It is reported from Tennessee, Virginia, and
                        South Carolina by independent observers, who say that the idea of a rough
                        countryman is always associated with it. In Missouri it is sometimes used
                        thus abstractly, but a native Indianian is usually meant, without reference
                        to his manners or literacy.
                    No reader of Hoosier chronicles can fail to be impressed by the relation of
                        the great forests to the people who came to possess and tame them. Before
                        they reached the Indiana wilderness in their advance before civilization,
                        the stalwart pioneers had swung their axes in Pennsylvania or Kentucky, and
                        had felt the influence of the great, gloomy woodlands in their lives; but in
                        Indiana this influence was greatly intensified. They experienced an
                        isolation that is not possible to-day in any part of the country, and the
                        loss of nearly every civilizing  agency that
                        men value. These frontiersmen could hardly have believed themselves the
                        founders of a permanent society, for the exact topography of much of their
                        inheritance was unknown to them; large areas were submerged for long
                        periods, and the density of the woods increased the difficulty of building
                        roads and knitting the scattered clearnings and villages into a compact and
                        sensitive commonwealth. Once cleared, the land yielded a precarious living
                        to the pioneers in return for their labors and sacrifices; after the first
                        dangers from beasts of prey, the pestiferous small animals anticipated the
                        harvest and ate the corn. One ear in four acres remained after the gray
                        squirrels had taken their pleasure in a Johnson County field.1 Sheep
                        were out of the question on account of the wolves; and always present and
                        continuing were the fevers that preyed on the worn husbandmen and sent many
                        to premature graves. The women, deprived of every comfort, contributed their
                        share of the labor, making homes of their cabins; dyeing the wool, when they
                        had it, with the ooze of the walnut,  carding,
                        spinning, and weaving it, and finally cutting the cloth into garments; or if
                        linen were made, following the flax from the field through all the processes
                        of manufacture until it clothed the family.
                            1
                            Banta's "Johnson County," p. 55.
                        
                    
                    The pioneers could not see then, as their children see now, that the
                        wilderness was a factor in their destiny; that it drove them in upon
                        themselves, strengthening their independence in material things by shutting
                        them off from older communities, and that it even fastened upon their
                        tongues the peculiarities of speech which they had brought with them into
                        the wilderness. But their isolation compelled meditation, and when reading
                        matter penetrated the woodlands it was usually worth the trouble of
                        transportation in a day of few roads and little travel. The pioneers knew
                        their Bibles and named their children for the Bible heroes, and most of
                        their other books were religious. There have been worse places in which to
                        form habits of thought, and to lay the foundation for a good manner of
                        writing our language, than the Hoosier cabin. Lying before the fireplace in
                        his father's humble Spencer County home  during the fourteen years that the family spent in Indiana,years that
                        were of the utmost importance in his life,Abraham Lincoln studied his few
                        books and caught the elusive language-spirit that later on gave character
                        and beauty to his utterances.
                    The social life of the first comers also drew its inspiration from their
                        environment, and was expressed in log-rolling, house-raising, and other
                        labors that could best be done by cooperation, and which they concluded
                        usually, in a fashion quite characteristic, with a frolic. After the axe,
                        the rifle was most important among their belongings; for they trusted
                        largely to the fortunes of the hunt for food; and peltries became a valuable
                        medium of exchange in their simple economy. Expertness in the use of the
                        rifle and friendly rivalry in marksmanship among the settlers led to other
                        social gatherings; and even professional men took pride in the sport and
                        participated in these contests. The militia system in the early days was not
                        an important feature of Hoosier life. The Hoosier's sense of humor
                        has always been keen, and where, as  once
                        occurred on muster day in the White Water country, a part of the
                        officer's duty was to separate wearers of shoes from those who
                        appeared in moccasins, and bearers of cornstalks from those who carried
                        rifles, there was nothing of the pomp and pageantry of war to captivate the
                        imagination of the people.
                    The Hoosier fiddle was a factor in all the festivities of the country folk.
                        The fiddler was frequently an eccentric genius, ranking with the rural poet,
                        who was often merely a maker of idle rhymes; however, the country fiddler in
                        Indiana has held his own against latter-day criticism and the competition of
                        the village brass band. Governor Whitcomb enjoyed local fame as a violinist,
                        and Berry Sulgrove and General Lew Wallace, in their younger years, were
                        skilful with the bow. Dr. H. W. Taylor, a conscientious student of early
                        Hoosier customs, connects the Hoosier fiddler with the Scotch Highlanders,
                        and has expressed his belief1 that the Highlander folk coming to the United
                        States naturally sought the mountain country of Virginia, North Carolina,
                             Tennessee, and Georgia, and that the
                        Scotch fiddle and its traditions survive principally in these mountainous
                        countries. We are told that the fiddle of the Hoosiers is an exotic and
                        cannot long survive, though fifteen years after this prediction a contest of
                        Hoosier fiddlers was held in the largest hall at Indianapolis, and many
                        musicians of this old school appeared from the back districts to compete for
                        the prizes. The great aim of the old time fiddlers was to make their
                        instruments "talk." Their tunes enjoyed such euphonious
                        names as "Old Dan Tucker," "Old Zip
                        Coon," "Possum up a Gum Stump," "Irish
                        Washer-woman," "Waggoner," "Ground
                        Spy," and "Jay Bird." Dr. Taylor discovered that
                        the very Hoosier manner of bowing, i.e. fiddling, was
                        derived from the Scotch, and he gives this description of it: "The
                        arm, long, bony, and sinewy, was stretched forwards, down-wards, and
                        outwards from the shoulder, and at full length. There was absolutely no
                        movement of the wrist, a very little at the elbow, and just a degree more at
                        the shoulder." Hall ironically observed that the country fiddler
                        could,  like Paganini, play one tune or parts
                        of nearly two dozen tunes on one string; and like the great maestro he played without notes, and with endless flourishes. He
                        gives this attractive portrait of one of the New Purchase fiddlers:
                            1
                            The Current, November, 1884.
                        
                    
                    "He held his fiddle against his breast perhaps out of affection and
                        his bow in the middle, and like a cartwhip; things enabling him, however,
                        the more effectuall to flog his instrument when rebellious; and the
                        afflicted creature would scream right out in agony! Indeed, his Scremonah
                        bore marks of premature old age its fingerboard being indented with little
                        pits, and its stomach was frightfully incrusted with rosin and other gummy
                        things, till it looked as dark and careworn as Methuselah! Dan was, truly,
                        no niggard of 'rosum,' for he 'greased'
                        as he termed it, between his tunes every time! and then, at his first few
                        vigorous jerks, fell a shower of dust on the agitated bosom of his
                        instrument, calling out in vain for mercy under the cruel
                            punishment."1
                        
                            1
                            "The New Purchase," p. 401.
                        
                    
                    James Whitcomb Riley corroborates the impression of earlier writers in a
                        characteristic poem, "My Fiddle:"2
                        
                            2
                            "Neighborl Poems," p. 26.
                        
                    
                    "My playin's only middlin'tunes I picked up when a
                        boy
                    The kind o'-sort o' fiddlin' that the folks calls
                        'cordaroy';
                    
                    'The Old Fat Gal' and 'Rye-Straw,' and
                        'My Sailyor's on the Sea,'
                    Is the old cowtillions I 'saw' when the
                        ch'ice is left to me;
                    
                        And so I plunk and plonk and plink
                        And rosum-up my bow,
                        And play the tunes that make you think
                        The devil's in your toe!"
                    
                    In several of the Southern Indiana counties the least admirable traits of the
                        ancestors of the "poor whites" who came in from the South
                        have been continued into a third and fourth generation; but these do not
                        appear prominently in any fair or comprehensive examination of the people.
                        Much has been written of the lawlessness of Indianians, and lynching and
                        white-capping have sporadically been reported from many of the southern
                        counties. An attorney-general of the State who had brought all the machinery
                        of the law to bear upon particular instances of lynching during his term of
                        office, and who had given much study to the phenomena presented by these
                        outbreaks, expressed his opinion that the right of way of the Baltimore and
                        Southwestern Railway marked the "lynching belt" in
                        Indiana. Statistics in confirmation  are
                        lacking, but it is safe to say that a large percentage of the lynchings
                        reported in the State have occurred either in counties on the line of the
                        road or in those immediately adjoining. Lynchings have also occurred in at
                        least half a dozen counties north of Indianapolis, so that all the crimes of
                        this sort perpetrated in Indiana cannot be charged to the descendants of the
                        "poor whites" in the more Southern counties. Lynching has
                        not been viewed with apathy, and every instance of it has been followed by
                        vigorous efforts at punishment. In 1889 a drastic law was added to the
                        statutes, defining lynching and providing severe penalties. It struck to the
                        quick of the matter by making possible the impeachment of law officers who
                        yield prisoners to a mob. But under any circumstances these people are so
                        intensely clannish that even the sincerest prosecution usually fails for
                        lack of witnesses. The Hon. W. A. Ketcham, State attorney-general, after
                        heroic efforts to fix responsibility for the lynching of five men in Ripley
                        County on the night of September 14, 1898, gravely stated in his official
                        report that he had applied the Sherlock Holmes principle to the incident;
                             that is to say, after excluding every
                        other possible hypothesis he had assumed the correctness of the one
                        remaining, and this he stated in his syllabus of the case to be:
                        "That A broke jail and travelled across the country to the town
                        where the revolver had been pawned, a distance of seven miles, broke into
                        the store, stole the revolver, returned again, broke back into jail, shot
                        himself, then killed B and C and hung their dead bodies to a tree, put the
                        finishing touches to his crime by hanging D and E, and then in order that
                        suspicion might be directed against innocent men, finally hanged
                            himself."1 The milder form of outlawry, known as
                        "white-capping," has also been practised in Indiana
                        occasionally, and sometimes with barbarous cruelty; but it, like lynching,
                        is not peculiar to the State, and its extent has been greatly exaggerated by
                        Eastern newspapers.
                            1
                            Report of W. A.  attorney-general, 18978, p. 173.
                        
                    
                    It has been insisted by loyal Indianians that the speech of the later
                        generations of natives is almost normal English; that the rough vernacular
                        of their ancestors has been ground down in the schools, and that the
                        dictionaries are  rapidly sanctioning new
                        words, once without authority, that inevitably crept into common speech
                        through the necessities of pioneer expression. It may fairly be questioned
                        whether, properly speaking, there ever existed a Hoosier dialect. The really
                        indigenous Indiana words and novel pronunciations are so few as to make but
                        a poor showing when collected; and while the word
                        "dialect" is employed as a term of convenience in this
                        connection, it can only be applied to a careless manner of speaking, in
                        which novel words are merely incidental. A book of colloquial terms, like
                        Green's "Virginia Word Book," could hardly be
                        compiled for Indiana without infringing upon the prior claims of other and
                        older States to the greater part of it. The so-called Hoosier dialect, where
                        it survives at all, is the speech of the first American settlers in Indiana,
                        greatly modified by time and schooling, but retaining, both in the
                        employment of colloquial terms and in pronunciation, the peculiarities that
                        were carried westward from tide water early in the nineteenth century. The
                        distinctive Indiana countryman, the real Hoosier, who has been little in
                        contact  with the people of cities, speaks a
                        good deal as his Pennsylvania or North Carolina or Kentucky grandfather or
                        great-grandfather did before him, and has created nothing new. His speech
                        contains comparatively few words that are peculiar to the State or to
                        communities within it; but in the main it shares such deviations from normal
                        or literary English with the whole Southwest.
                    In his book "The Wabash" Beste describes his interview with
                        an Indiana carpenter, who questioned whether the traveller was really an
                        Englishman, because his speech was unlike that of the usual English
                        immigrants whose trouble with the aspirate had evoked derisive comment among
                        the Americans. This occurs in his chapter on Indianapolis, in which the
                        carpenter is quoted thus:
                    "'You do not say 'ouse' and
                        'and' for 'house' and
                        'hand'; all the children, and all of you, pronounce all
                        these words like Americans, and not as real English pronounce them. Their
                        way of speaking makes us always say that we talk better English than the
                        English themselves.' I had, indeed, often heard the Americans
                        laughed at for saying so: but now the matter was explained. My carpenter
                        repeated with great accuracy various instances 
                        of provincialisms and vulgarisms which he and all of them had noticed more
                        or less, in all the English emigrants who had come, amongst them. Seeing
                        none of any other class, they naturally supposed that all English people
                        pronounced the language in the same manner, and so prided themselves upon
                        the superiority of American English. For notwithstanding the disagreeable
                        nasal tone and drawling whine in which most of them speak, and
                        notwithstanding a few national phrases and the peculiar use nad
                        pronunciation of certain words, it must be admitted that the American
                        people, in general, speak English without provincial dialect or vulgarisms.
                        Whence, in fact, could they acquire such, since all the emigrants they see
                        came from different parts of England, and the provincialisms of the one
                        neutralize those of the other."
                    Professor Whitney, in his "Language nad the Study of
                        Language," expresses in academic terms much the same idea.1
                        
                            1
                            Fifth Edition, 1872, pp. 171172.
                        
                    
                    Lapses in pronunciation have never been punishable with death on the Wabash,
                        as at the fords of the Jordan, where the shibboleth test of the Gileadites
                        cost the Ephraimites forty and two thousand. The native Indianian is not
                        sensitive about his speech and refuses to be humble before critics from the
                        far East who say "idea-r" and
                        "Philadelphia-r." James Whitcomb  Riley has made the interesting and just observation that the
                        average countryman knows in reality a wider range of diction than he permits
                        himself to use, and that his abridgments and variations are attributable to
                        a fear lest he may offend his neighbors by using the best language at his
                            command.1 This is wholly true, and it is responsible in a measure for
                        contributions to the common speech of local idioms and phrases. In rural
                        Indiana and generally in the Southwest the phrase
                        "'sth' fellah says" is often used by a
                        rustic to indicate his own appreciation of the fact that he has employed an
                        unusual expression. Or it may be an actual quotation, as, for example,
                        "Come over fer a visit, an' we'll treat you
                        'n a hostile manner, 's Uncle Amos use t'
                        say." this substitution of hostile for hospitable once enjoyed wide
                        currency in Indiana and Illinois. Sulgrove confirms Riley's
                            impression:
                            1
                            
                                The Forum, Vol. 14, p. 465.
                        
                    
                    "Correct pronunciation was positively regarded by the Southern
                        immigration as a mark of aristocracy or, as they called it,
                        'quality.' The 'ing' in
                        'evening,' or 'morning' or any other
                        words, was softened into 'in,' the  full sound being held finical and 'stuck up.'
                        So it was no unusual thing to hear such a comical string of emasculated
                        'nasals' as the question of a prominent Indiana lawyer of
                        the Kentucky persuasion, 'Where were you a-standin' at the
                        time of your perceivin' of the hearin' of the
                        firin' of the pistol?' . . . To 'set'
                        was the right way to sit; an Indian did not scalp, he
                        'skelped'; a child did not long for a thing, he
                        'honed' for it, slang retains this Hoosier archaism; a
                        woman was not dull, she was 'daunsy'; commonly a gun was
                        'shot' instead of fired in all moods and
                            tenses."1
                        
                            1
                            Sulgrove, p. 90.
                        
                    
                    While the French settlements in Indiana made no appreciable impression on the
                        common speech, yet it has been assumed by some observers that the
                        inclination at the South to throw the accent of words forward, as in
                            gentlemen, settlement, was fairly
                        attributable to the influence of the French Catholics in Louisiana and of
                        the Huguenots who were scattered through the Southeastern colonies, though
                        this would seem a trifle finespun; but the idiosyncrasy noted exists at the
                        South, no matter what its real origin may have been, and it has been
                        communicated in some measure through Southern influences to the middle
                        Western people. However, Southern Indianians sometimes say Tennes-sy, accenting  the first
                        syllable and slurring the last, illustrating again the danger of accepting
                        any theories or fixing any rules for general guidance in such matters. Dr.
                        Eggleston remembers only one French word that survived from old French times
                        in the Wabash country,"cordelle, to tow a boat by a rope carried
                        along the shore." The most striking influence in the Indiana
                        dialect is that of the Scotch-Irish, who have left marked peculiarities of
                        speech behind them wherever they have gone. Notwithstanding the fact that
                        both the English Quakers and the Germans contributed largely to the
                        settlement of Pennsylvania and of the Southeastern colonies, the
                        idiosyncrasies of speech most perceptible in the regions deriving their
                        population from those sources are plainly Scotch-Irish; as, for example, the
                        linguistic deficiency which makes strenth and lenth of strength and length,
                        or bunnle of bundle, and the use of nor for than, after a comparative
                        adjective. The use of into for in and
                            whenever for as soon as are other
                        Scotch-Irish peculiarities. These, however, are heard only in diminishing
                        degree in Indiana, and many of the younger generations of Hoosiers  have never known them. The confusion of shall and will and of like and as is traceable to North Irish influences,
                        and is not peculiar to the spoken language at the South and West, but is
                        observed frequently in the newspapers, and is found even in books.
                    The anonymous writer of "Pioneer Annals" (1875), a rare
                        pamphlet that contains much invaluable matter relating to the occupation of
                        the White Water Valley, speaks of the prevalence of Carolina Quakers among
                        the first settlers of that region, and remarks that when newcomers were
                        asked where they came from, the answer would be "Guilford County,
                        near Clemmens's Store"; or "Beard's
                        Hatter-shop"; Dobson's Cross Roads"; or
                        "Deep-River Settlement of Friends." The same writer gives
                        a dialect note which illustrates the ephemeral character of idiom. Sleys (slays) was a term applied by the Carolinians to the
                        reeds used by them in their home-made looms. A Carolina emigrant bound for
                        Indiana stopped at Cincinnati and offered to sell a supply of these. It was
                        in August, and the storekeeper knew but one word having the same sound,
                        sleighs,  which were not used in Cincinnati in
                        midsummer. His ironical comment almost led to a personal encounter before
                        the Carolinian could explain. John V. Hadley states in his "Seven
                        Months a Prisoner" that "Guilford County" and
                        "Jamestown" '(North Carolina) were household
                        words in many families of Hendricks County (Indiana), where he lived. At
                        Jamestown, on his way to Libby Prison, he was accosted by a citizen who
                        asked whether a former neighbor who had moved to Indiana, but still owned
                        property in North Carolina, had not enlisted in the Union army, the purpose
                        of the inquiry being to obtain testimony on which to confiscate his estate.
                    The circulation of newly coined words has been so rapid in late years, owing
                        to the increase of communication between different parts of the country, and
                        to dissemination by the newspapers, that few useful words originating
                        obscurely are likely to remain local. Lowell amused himself by tracing to
                        unassailable English sources terms that were assumed to be essentially
                        American; and if Chaucer and the Elizabethans may be invoked against  our rural communities, the
                        word-hunter's sport has grown much simpler when he may  a
                        usage in one State to disestablish the priority claimed for it in another.
                        There is risk in all efforts to connect novel words with particular
                        communities, no matter how carefully it may be done, and it is becoming more
                        and more difficult to separate real dialect from slang. Lists of unusual
                        words that have been reported to the American Dialect Society afford
                        interesting instances of the danger of accepting terms as local which are
                        really in general use. The word rambunctious, reported
                        from New York State as expressing impudence and forwardness, cannot be
                        peculiar to that region,1 for it is used in Indiana in identically the same
                        sense. Other words, collected through the same agency and common in Indiana,
                        are: scads, reported from Missouri, signifying a great
                        quantity; and sight, meaning a large amount, noted in New
                        England and New York. Great hand for, meaning a penchant, traced from Maine to Ohio, may be followed also
                        into Indiana, but this,  like druthers, for a preference or choice, belongs to the towns rather
                        than to the country. Go like, in the sense of imitation,
                        as "go like a rooster," is reported from
                        both Maine and Indiana; and foot-loose, meaning free and
                        untrammelled, observed in Georgia, is used in the towns, at least, of
                        Indiana. The natural disposition of Americans to exaggerate led to the
                        creation by the Southeastern element in Indiana population of bodaciously,
                        1 a
                        corruption of audaciously; and to the employment of powerful, indiscriminately with big or little, as a particularly emphatic superlative. Curiously enough
                            powerful, which is usually identified with the earlier
                        generations of the Southwest, is reported also from Eastern
                            Massachusetts.2
                        Sarcumstansis for circumstances,
                            b'ar for bear, and thar for there reached Indiana through Kentucky, and
                        are now rarely heard. Dr. Eggleston employs the broad a in
                        "The Graysons," where one character says bar while another pronounces the word correctly, explaining that words
                        are not always pronounced the same  in a
                        dialect an observation that has also been made by Mr. Riley.
                            1
                            "Dialect Notes," Part VIII, p. 392.
                        
                        
                            1
                            "The New Purchase," p. 143.
                        
                        
                            1
                            "Dialect Notes," Part IV, p. 211.
                        
                    
                    Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher, whose unamiable novel, "From Dawn to
                        Daylight," is a dreary picture of Indiana life, gives a few
                        interesting usages; as a right smart chance of money, heap of
                            plunder, sight stronger, proper hard, showing that her acquaintance
                        was principally with the Southern element, which she had known at
                        Lawrenceburg and Indianapolis. Plunder, as a synonym for
                        baggage, seems to be largely Southern and Western, and was probably derived
                        from the Pennsylvania Germans. The insolent intrusiveness of dialect is
                        illustrated by the appearance of the word in its colloquial sense in the
                        first chapter of General Wallace's "Prince of
                        India." Dr. Eggleston in "The Graysons" gives weth for with, air for are,
                            thes for just, sher'f for sheriff, and yer's for here is. Indianians usually pronounce the name of their State
                        correctly, though the final vowel sometimes becomes y.
                        Benjamin S. Parker remembers that in the early days pioneers sometimes said
                            Injuns, Injiana, and immejut; but
                        these usages are  obsolete in the State.1 Mr.
                        Riley frequently uses miled (mile), and yet the word is
                        some what similarly spoken on Nantucket, maild. Ornery, a
                        vulgar form of ordinary, seems to be generally used, and has been observed
                        in the Middle States as well as in Indiana and Kentucky. The injunction mind out, which is used in Kentucky in such admonitions as
                            "mind out what you are doing,"
                        becomes watch out in Indiana. Wrench for
                            rinse, used in the States contiguous to the Ohio, is
                            rense in New England. Critter for
                            horse is still heard in parts of rural Indiana, which
                        derived population through Kentucky, where the same usage is noted. Fruit, as applied to stewed apples (apple sauce) only, is
                        a curious limitation of the noun, heard among old-fashioned people of
                        Southern origin in Indiana. Some place for somewhere is not chargeable to Indiana alone, but this and the
                        phrases want on and want off seem to be
                        used chiefly in the  West Central States, and
                        they belong to the borderland between slang and dialect. It would seem a far
                        cry from the Hoosier speech to the classic Greek, and yet Dr. H. W. Taylor
                        has pursued this line of philological inquiry with astonishing results,
                        tracing an analogy of sound and sense most ingeniously between Greek terms
                        and words found in the American dialects.1
                        
                            1
                            
                                D before i or u does not become j in cultivated usage
                                anywhere at the west. Personally, I have never heard Injiana within the State; but I have heard it from a
                                Bostonian, a native of Maine, who had never lived outside of New
                                England.
                        
                        
                            1
                            "Souvenir of the Western Association of Writers,"
                                1891.
                        
                    
                    In the speech of the illiterate, there is usually something of rhythm and
                        cadence. All slang shares a feeling for the balance and nice adjustment of
                        words, and slang phrases are rarely clumsy. The cry of a boy calling his
                        mate has its peculiar crescendo, and pedlers the world over run the scale of
                        human expression in pursuit of odd effects. The drawl of the Southerner and
                        Southwesterner is not unmusical, though it may try the patience of the
                        strnager. Even cultivated Indianians, particularly those of Southern
                        antecedents, have the habit of clinging to their words; they do not bite
                        them off sharply. G performs its office as final consonant
                        in ing under  many
                        disadvantages; and it was long ignored, though the school teachers have
                        struggled nobly to restore it. The blending of words, which begins with
                        childhood, is often carried into maturity by the Indianian; thus by a lazy
                        elision "did you ever" is combined in jever, and "where did you get" becomes 
                            wherjuge. Ju is, in fact, usual in the Ohio
                        Valley. The history of the Italian a in this country is in
                        itself interesting. In New England and in Virginia it finds recognition,
                        whereas in the intermediate region the narrower sound of the vowel prevails;
                        and likewise the sottening of r is noted in New England
                        and among the Virginians and other Southerners, while in the intermediate
                        territory and at the West r receives its full sound. The
                        shrill nasal tone is still marked in the back country folk of New England,
                        while the Southern and Southwestern farmer's speech is fuller and
                        more open-mouthed. Whether climatic influences have been potent in such
                        matters remains a matter of speculation, but such theories are to be
                        received with caution.
                    It is unfortunate that there are so few trustworthy  records of the early Southwestern speech, and that first and
                        last bad grammar, reckless spelling, and the indiscriminate distribution of
                        the printer's apostrophe by writers who had no real knowledge to
                        guide them, have served to create an erroneous impression of the illiteracy
                        of the Indianians and their neighbors. It is likely that during the next
                        quarter of a century the continued fusion of the various elements of Western
                        population will create a dead level of speech, approximating accuracy, so
                        that in a typical American State like Indiana local usages will disappear,
                        and the only oddities discernible will be those of the well-nigh universal
                        slang, which even now reach Colorado and California almost as soon as they
                        are known at the Atlantic seaboard. At the South and in New England, where
                        there is less mingling of elements, the old usages will probably endure much
                        longer; and it is a fair assumption that in the Mississippi Valley and in
                        the Trans-Missouri country, a normal American speech free of local
                        idiosyncrasies will appear first. Our keen sense of humor and our love of
                        the conveniences  of speech are likely to
                        continue to be national traits, leading to the creation and adoption of
                        slang from time to time; but where a people imply quotation marks in all
                        their lapses from propriety, they anticipate and destroy criticism.
                    After all, there is nothing reprehensible in dialect, as we loosely use the
                        word, or even in slang. Flexibility is necessary to the living language; and
                        the word-hunter who really delights in his avocation, and is not limited in
                        his researches to the remoter fields of classical philogoy, hearing in his
                        daily walks and in the tranquil talk at peaceful inns the pungent or
                        pictorial word that no lexicographer has yet detected, knows a joy that is
                        greater than that of fly fishing or butterfly hunting. "No
                        language," writes Lowell, "after it has faded into
                        diction, none that cannot suck up the feeding juices secreted for it in the
                        rich mother-earth of common folk, can bring forth a sound and lusty book.
                        True vigor and heartiness of phrase do not pass from page to page, but from
                        man to man, where the brain is kindled and the lips suppled by downright
                        living interests, and by passion in its  very
                        throe." He continues: "Language is the soil of thought,
                        and our own especially is a rich leaf-mould, the slow deposit of ages, the
                        shed foliage of feeling, fancy, and imagination, which has suffered an earth
                        change, that the vocal forest, as Howell called it, may clothe itself a new
                        with living green," And this suggests Horace's words, in
                        "Ars Poetica":
                    "Ut silvae foliis pronos mutantur in annos,
                    Prima cadunt; ita verborum vetus interit aetas,
                    Et  ritu florent modo nata vigentque."
                    As the leaves have fallen through a century in the Wabash country, they have
                        buried words that will never reappear; and the change will continue, old
                        words vanishing and new ones taking their places, so long as tradition and
                        heredity yield to the schoolmaster, that ruthless forester who grafts and
                        trims to make all trees uniform.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    BRINGERS OF THE LIGHT
                    IN his address to the annual council of the Protestant
                        Episcopal diocese of Indiana in 1863, Bishop Upfold spoke with much vigor
                        against the use of flowers in the decoration of churches, and said:
                    "There is no sound principle, no true doctrine involved in the
                        practice. It is all poetry, and the very romance of poetry, the conception
                        of romantic and imaginative minds, dictated less by religious sentiment than
                        by a fondness for show and gaudy display. Instead of the decoration
                        concentrating the attention devoutly on the great and glorious fact which
                        flowers are erroneously supposed to symbolize, it is far more likely to
                        divert it, and impair the true spiritual emotions and impressions, which the
                        commemorative services of the day (Easter) are destined to awaken and
                        deepen. . . . The practice will not be allowed in this diocese; and I now
                        declare and desire it may be distinctly understood and remembered,and I may
                        as well say it, because I mean to do itthat I will not visit or officiate in
                        any parish, to administer confirmation, or perform any other office on
                        Easter Sunday, or on any other occasion, where this floral display is
                        attempted."
                    
                    Bishop Upfold greatly modified his views before his death, in 1872; but this
                        declaration is expressive of the general religious attitude of the earlier
                        Indianians; it was Protestant, intensely Protestant. The religious phenomena
                        observable in the State are not complex and are readily explained. The early
                        French were, of course, Roman Catholics, and their first priests were of the
                        heroic type that had its highest expression in Marquette and Joliet, and
                        hardly less notably in Father Sorin of the Order of the Holy Cross, who
                        founded, in Northern Indiana, Notre Dame University, and lived to see it one
                        of the great Catholic schools of the continent. But the prevalent religious
                        ideas of the Hoosiers were not inherited from the early French settlers.
                        North Carolina contributed members of the Society of Friends to the new
                        territory, and Virginia, Kentucky, and Pennsylvania sent Methodists,
                        Presbyterians, and Baptists, members of the sect established by Alexander
                        Campbell, and German Lutherans. Episcopalians were few among the first
                        Indiana colonists. The diocese of Indiana was created in 1838, and many
                        earnest men have given their  labor to its
                        service first and last; but the slow progress of the Episcopal Church in the
                        commonwealth has been due to conditions antedating the settlement of the
                        Ohio Valley, running back, indeed, to the efforts of James I. to establish
                        Scotch and English colonies in Ireland, the most turbulent part of his
                        kingdom, and thus forming the base for a migration to America that was to
                        color the life and thought of a vast area of new soil. As so large a
                        proportion of the pioneers had rejected apostolic succession in the Old
                        World, they saw no reason for accepting it in the Western wilderness. The
                        rugged apostles of Methodism, and the less rugged but equally diligent and
                        earnest preachers of Presbyterianism, were leaders in the strenuous
                        religious labors of the early years of the century. The advance guard of
                        these two religious bodies did not always dwell together in unity; in
                        educational work, for example, envy, hatred, and malice were sometimes
                        awakened. The Rev. F. C. Holliday, writing in 1872,1 complained of the
                        self-complacency with which the leading Presbyterians at the West had
                        assumed  authority in educational matters, and
                        "the quiet unscrupulousness with which they seized upon the trust
                        funds of the States for school purposes, and made these schools as strictly
                        denominational as though the funds had been exclusively contributed by
                        members of their own communion." It is true that Presbyterians
                        controlled the State University in its early years, but this was due to
                        their zeal in education and to the exceptional fitness of many Presbyterian
                        clergymen for teaching. Princeton extended a friendly hand to the
                        Presbyterians who were struggling in the new State, and sent, among others,
                        the Rev. George Bush (17961859), who reached Indianapolis in 1824, and two
                        years later shocked his congregation in the malarious village by denying
                        that there was any authority of Scripture for the Presbyterian form of
                        church government.1 His views became increasingly radical and in 1829
                        he left Indiana, accepted the chair of Hebrew and Oriental Literature in the
                        University of the City of New York, and became a Swedenborgian. He was a
                        life-long student and a writer of recognized ability.
                            1
                            "Indiana Methodism," p. 317.
                        
                        
                            1
                            Edson's "Early Indiana Presbyterianism,"
                                p. 171.
                        
                    
                    
                    The Baptists organized the first Protestant church in Indiana in 1798. The
                        Methodists formed a society in 1803, and in 1805. Peter Cartwright, one of
                        the great pioneer Methodist evangelists, was at work in the State. The
                        oldest Presbyterian society was formed in 1806, near Vinnnes, then
                        the capital, and William Henry Harrison, the governor, who had married a
                        Presbyterian wife, was numbered among its parishioners.1 The very nature of
                        the pioneer life compelled the simplest of religious as well as of social
                        observances. The meeting-houses were of logs, and the ministers were often
                        tillers of the soil. One of the early Presbyterian clergymen aided the
                        support of his family by farming, writing the deeds, wills, and other formal
                        papers of his neighbors, by teaching singing, and by making shoes, and from
                        all these sources of labor, including his pay as minister, he averaged only
                        $80 a year for a period of sixteen years. Father (the Rev. James) Havens,
                        one of the famous apostles of Methodism,  who,
                        in 1824, rode what was known as the Connersville circuit, embracing several
                        county seats, received $56.06 1/2 for his year's services. This
                        does not indicate indifference among the scattered flock, but a lack of
                        actual money. Instances are reported of men splitting rails or working in
                        the harvest field at fifty cents a day in order to aid their ministers.
                        Meetings were held in wayside cabins, in which the near neighbors gathered,
                        and after the service the housewife prepared a meal for the clerical guest,
                        and for those of the little congregation who remained. The ministers of the
                        day were not always profound scholars, but they were light-bearers, who went
                        ahead of the schoolmasters, communicating to scores of the youth of the new
                        land an interest in the world of men and books. It has been said that
                        three-fourths of the early students of Asbury (DePauw) University came from
                        homes that were visited by the itinerant Methodist preachers.1
                        
                            1
                            Evans's "Pioneer Preachers," p. 43;
                                Edson's "Early Indiana Presbyterianism,"
                                p. 40.
                        
                        
                            1
                            Goodwin's "Heroic Women of Indiana
                                Methodism," p. 9.
                        
                    
                    Ministers were required to be extemporaneous speakers, and they often
                        indulged in joint  debates that aroused the
                        greatest interest. These contests were markedly frequent during the period
                        in which the "Campbellite" movement gathered force and
                        began to attract members of the older religious societies. Lay discussion
                        was common, and the free interpretation of the Bible urged by the
                        Campbellites encouraged it. "Revivals" and camp-meetings
                        were conducted frequently, and were often attended with great excitement.
                        During the first quarter of the century religious enthusiasm manifested
                        itself with an excess and abandon that were unknown in politics.
                        "Father" was often prefixed to the names of the venerable
                        pioneer ministers as a mark of affection, and in recognition of long
                        service. This was not unusual among the Methodists, and even the
                        Presbyterians occasionally bestowed the term on some of their old and worn
                        missionaries of the early days. Many of these men lived until late in the
                        century, and saw the theology of their young manhood altered or superseded,
                        and amid new men and new manners became almost strangers in the land they
                        had first known as a wilderness.
                    
                    Great care had been taken to assure to the Northwest religious liberty and
                        free schools. The ordinance of 1787 touched directly on the questions of
                        religion and education in the Northwest Territory. "No
                        person," it declared, "demeaning himself in a peaceable,
                        orderly manner shall ever be molested on account of his mode of worship or
                        religious sentiments in the said territory;" and
                        "religion, morality and knowledge being necessary to good
                        government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education
                        shall be forever encouraged." The ordinance has clearly been one of
                        the great guiding influences of the nation. It prepared the way in the Ohio
                        Valley for the attitude of the people toward slavery; and its assurance of
                        religious freedom and friendliness to learning brought to the new territory
                        the benefit of the experience of those who had striven for such liberties
                        and advantages in the seaboard colonies. The history of civilization in
                        Indiana may be said to date from its passage. When, in 1804, Congress
                        provided for the disposal of public lands in the districts of Detroit,  Kaskaskia, and Vincennes, the act carried with
                        it a reservation of the sixteenth section in each township for the support
                        of schools, and also an entire township in each land district for the use of
                        a seminary of learning; and later, the act of 1816 that raised Indiana
                        Territory to statehood, provided "that one entire township, which
                        shall be designated by the President of the United States, in addition to
                        the one heretofore reserved for that purpose, shall be reserved for the use
                        of a seminary of learning, to be appropriated solely to the use of such
                        seminary." Under the first law Albert Gallatin, Secretary of the
                        Treasury, selected a township in Gibson County; and, following further the
                        direction of Congress, Governor Harrison approved, in 1806, an act of the
                        territorial legislature, incorporating Vincennes University, which was not,
                        however, fully open until 1810. The territorial legislators believed that it
                        would serve a good purpose to admit Indian youth to the privileges of the
                        school, and the law enjoined the trustees "to use their utmost
                        endeavors to induce the said aborigines to send their children  to the University for education, who, when
                        sent, shall be maintained, clothed, and educated at the expense of said
                            institution."1 Only one Indian ever availed himself of this
                        offer. In 1822 a law was enacted calling for the sale of the Gibson County
                        lands and the use of the proceeds for the State seminary already planned at
                        Bloomington. Thus the State boldly confiscated the fief of one institution
                        and turned it over to anotheran act that led to long litigation; and though
                        Vincennes University was partially successful in the courts, its revenue was
                        curtailed and permanent injury resulted. It continues, however, in spite of
                        reverses a lively member of the company of Indiana schools of the
                        preparatory type.
                            1
                            Woodburn's "Higher Education in Indiana,"
                                p. 31.
                        
                    
                    Under the act of 1816 President Monroe designated Perry Township, in the
                        county which was named for him when, in 1818, Orange County was divided.2 The
                        selection of the "seminary township" became of great
                        importance, for it determined not merely the location of the contemplated
                        seminary, but of  the State University, into
                        which it grew. Efforts have been made repeatedly to remove the institution
                        from Bloomington, the town that rose about it; but they have been
                        unavailing. The site chosen by President Monroe, as it was impossible for
                        him to foresee, was not to remain the most fortunate in point of convenience
                        and accessibility; but Monroe County has clung tenaciously to the honor
                        conferred upon her, and seems destined to carry her dignity through the
                        twentieth century. The first principal of the seminary was Baynard Rush Hall
                        (17981865), the son of a Philadelphia physician. He was a graduate of Union
                        College and of Princeton Theological Seminary. He was not only an early and
                        valuable teacher, but a pioneer author. One of his books "The New
                        Purchase; or Seven and a Half Years in the Far West" contains a
                        vast amount of information touching pioneer customs; and while it is not
                        always wholly good-natured, it is written in the main with spirit and
                            humor.1 He declared his belief  that he was
                        "the very first man since the creation of the world that read Greek
                        in the New Purchase"; which is extravagant, as many of the earlier
                        Protestant ministers were doubtless learned in the languages, even if the
                        distinction of which he boasted did not belong to some Roman Catholic
                        missionary. Ten boys and young men were all that were admitted to the new
                        seminary when it opened, May 1, 1824. The standards of admission seemed
                        wholly novel and unnecessary. "Daddy says he doesn't see
                        no sort a use in the high larn'd things, and he wants me to larn
                        Inglish only, and book-keepin', and surveyin', so as to
                        'tend store and run a line," was the tone of protest heard
                        from many applicants, as reported by Hall in the "New
                        Purchase." Local politicians, viewing the new school as something
                        exclusive and aristocratic, declared that "it was a right smart
                        chance better to have no college nohow, if all folks hadn't  equal right to larn what they most liked
                        best." Hall was the sole teacher employed for the first three
                        years, and during this period the only branches taught were Greek and
                            Latin.1 While he thus filled all the offices of the seminary in the woods,
                        he organized his handful of students into a literary society, which he
                        called the Henodelphisterian, and for which he made the
                        rule that members should drop their proper appellations while in the
                        academic shades and assume Greek or Latin names. "Thus,"
                        says Judge Banta, in his reminiscences, "every member of the
                        society was an Ajax, a Pericles, a Timoleon." Hall's
                        salary at this time was two hundred and fifty dollars a year, and there is
                        ground for the suspicion that he compensated himself for deficiencies of
                        income by the free indulgence of his sense of humor. As the young gentlemen
                        of the Henodelphisterian were occupied out of school hours
                        in wood-chopping and swine-herding, the joke was rather broad. Additional
                        instruction was demanded in the third year, and a teacher of mathematics was
                        employed. The seminary  became the State
                        University in 1838, and among the first trustees were David Wallace,
                        Governor William Hendricks, Jesse L. Holman, Robert Dale Owen, and Richard
                        W. Thompson, all of whom were otherwise factors in the early history of the
                        State, and in several cases members of families distinguished in subsequent
                        generations. The University's in fluence in the State has been
                        inestimable. It has usually been fortunate in its administrators, and it has
                        more and more grown to be the centre of agencies related to the better life
                        and advancement of the commonwealth. After leaving Indiana, in 1831, Hall
                        taught academies at Bordentown and Trenton, New Jersey, at Poughkeepsie and
                        Newburgh, New York, and in 1852 he became principal of Park Institute,
                        Brooklyn. He received the degree of A.M. from Princeton and of D.D. from
                        Rutgers College.
                            1
                            Woodburn, p. 75.
                        
                        
                            1
                            In Dr. Hall's narrative "Woodville,"
                                "Spiceburg," "Sugartown,"
                                "Sproutshurg," and
                                "Timberopolis" are respectively Bloomington,
                                Spencer, Crawfordsville. Lafayette, and Indianapolis. The author
                                assumes the names "Carlton" and "Mr.
                                Clarence." "Cutswell" became Governor
                                Whitcomb; "The Rev. James Hilsbury" is the Rev.
                                Isaac Reed; "Dr. Bloduplex" is Dr. Wiley, and
                                "Dr. Shrub" is the Rev. George Bush.
                        
                        
                            1
                            Banta's "History of Indiana University,"
                                p. 44.
                        
                    
                    So early as 1793 W. Rivet, a French missionary, "a polite,
                        well-educated, and liberal-minded enthusiast, banished to this country by
                        the French Revolution," had conducted a school successfully at
                        Vincennes. A system of county  seminaries was
                        introduced early in the nineteenth century, and such schools were organized
                        in about half of the counties; and between 1825 and 1850 seventy-three
                        private and incorporated schools were opened, traces of which remain. These
                        were known sometimes by the name of the founder, or were identified with the
                        name of the town in which they were situated. The democratic idea that
                        secondary and higher education could not properly be provided by the State
                        found early and wide acceptance. It was believed that the obligation of
                        higher education should be undertaken by private enterprise and by religious
                        organizations; and out of this spirit came a group of seminaries, similar to
                        those of the counties, and representing the several churches that had
                        established outposts on the frontier. Many of these grew into colleges.
                        Hanover and Wabash colleges thus began under Presbyterian auspices, DePauw
                        (Asbury) University under the Methodists, and Franklin College under the
                        Baptists; and while their beginnings were not strictly in the seminary,
                        Notre Dame, a Catholic university, and Earlham College, an institution of
                        high character  allied to the Society of
                        Friends, were of like origin. Late in the period during which the seminaries
                        flourished there rose a number of schools for women, of the academic grade,
                        and all of them private or denominational.
                    Institutions for higher education often precede schools for primary and
                        intermediate training; and in Indiana care had been taken to provide
                        seminaries and colleges before the important matter of establishing a common
                        school system had received intelligent attention. David Starr Jordan, long
                        identified with education in Indiana, has remarked that "the growth
                        in educational systems is from above downwards. In historical sequence
                        Oxford must precede Rugby, and the German University must come before the
                        gymnasium." Nearly half a century after the organization of the
                        first territorial government, no system of common schools had been perfected
                        in Indiana. Efforts had been made and the subject had not been wholly
                        overlooked by the lawmakers, but a prejudice existed in the minds of many
                        against free schools as undemocratic. The principle that enlightenment must
                        be a condition precedent to the intelligent exercise  of citizenship was not grasped by the populace; and as a result
                        of inattention the Hoosier, as Eggleston's schoolmaster found him,
                        was appearing on the scene. And yet, in 1837, while this type was
                        increasing, a member of the legislature declared, during the discussion of a
                        proposed school tax, that "when I die I want my epitaph written,
                        'Here lies an enemy to free schools.'"1
                        
                            1
                            Boone's "History of Education in Indiana,"
                                p. 87.
                        
                    
                    But while many enemies of common school education were blocking the way, an
                        unheralded champion was to appear, whose identity was not generally known
                        for several years after he took the field, and whose services entitle him to
                        first place among all who have striven for the advancement of learning in
                        Indiana. This was Caleb Mills, a native of New Hampshire (1806) and a
                        graduate of Dartmouth (1828) and of Andover Theological Seminary (1833). In
                        1831 he had made a tour of the Southwest in the interest of Sunday-schools,
                        and the social and intellectual conditions that he found had deeply
                        impressed him. It was a kind providence that led him back to Indiana in
                        1833, and  that gave to his adopted State the
                        benefit of his sympathy, intelligence, and spirit to the end of his life.
                        Among his classmates at Dartmouth were Milo Parker Jewett, who helped to
                        mould the common school system of Ohio, and later became the first president
                        of Vassar College, and Edmund O. Hovey, associated with Mills as a founder
                        of Wabash College, and long a member of its faculty. Others of his Indiana
                        contemporaries may have appreciated the gravity of the situation as fully as
                        he, but it was left for Mills to sound the alarm and lead the charge. In the
                        first year after he entered the State it was averred by a reputable witness
                        that "only about one child in eight between five and fifteen years
                        is able to read." Dr. Joseph F. Tuttle, the honored president of
                        Wabash College for nearly a third of a century, described the condition of
                        affairs in these words:
                    "In 1840 there were 273,784 children in the State of school age, of
                        whom only 48,180 attended the common schools. One-seventh of the adult
                        population could not read, and a large proportion of those who could read
                        did so imperfectly. In spite of the constitutional provision of the State
                        and the famous 'sixteenth section,' the common schools of
                        Indiana were in bad condition. As late as  1846
                        the State rated lowest among the free States as to its popular intelligence
                        and means of popular education. Even the capital of the State did not have a
                        free school until 1853, and then one was kept open only two
                            months."1
                        
                            1
                            "Caleb Mills and Indiana Common Schools." Tuttle Miscellany, Vol. 38.
                        
                    
                    The census of 1840 showed the illiteracy of Indiana to be 14.32 per cent. The
                        return made by Illinois at this time was but little better, while Ohio, on
                        the eastern boundary, showed only 5.54 per cent of illiterates. Omitting
                        Illinois and Indiana, the illiteracy of the Northern States was only one in
                        forty; in Illinois and Indiana it was one in seven. In twenty-two counties
                        of Indiana the average illiteracy was more than 26.5 per cent. Montgomery
                        County, the home of Wabash College, returned at this time one-fifth of her
                        adult population as illiterate, and Putnam County, the seat of Asbury
                        College, returned one-sixth of her adult population as belonging to the same
                            class.2
                        
                            1
                            Boone's "Education in Indiana." p. 87.
                        
                    
                    With a knowledge of these facts Mills made and published, in the winter of
                        1846. "An Address to the Legislature of Indiana," and  signed it "one of the
                        People." The motto of this, as of his five succeeding addresses,
                        was, "Read, discuss, and circulate." These were all
                        written in a tone well calculated to interest and arouse. He handled his
                        statistics skilfully, and made clear the alarming progress of illiteracy in
                        the State. He was as ready with suggestions as with criticisms, and his
                        several papers show him to have been thoroughly informed as to the
                        educational conditions existing in every part of the country. He possessed
                        great patience, and the series of pamphlets was marked throughout by good
                        temper. He wrote in a deliberate manner, rarely showing haste or anxiety, as
                        if confident of the impression that would be created by fair and judicial
                        statement, and with faith in the ultimate triumph of his cause.
                    In the year following the publication of his first address, a call was issued
                        for a general meeting of educators to be held at Indianapolis. Among those
                        interested in the movement were Ovid Butler, afterward the generous
                        benefactor of Butler College, Henry  Ward
                        Beecher, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Indianapolis, and John
                        Coburn. A series of common school conventions followed, and was of great
                        value in unifying sentiment. In the roll of those who were prominent in the
                        first meeting appeared the names of Isaac Blackford, Oliver H. Smith, Calvin
                        Fletcher, Jeremiah Sullivan, Richard W. Thompson, Solomon Meredith, and
                        James Blake, who were of the saving remnant of their time. As a result of
                        the agitation by Mills, the conventions of educators, and the ceaseless
                        activity of many friends of education, the legislature of 18471848
                        authorized the people to express their sentiments for or against a tax for
                        the support of free schools, at the election to be held in the fall of 1848.
                        This was a presidential year, and the Mexican War issues were discussed
                        bitterly in Indiana and in the border States, where slavery lifted its head
                        ominously; but the advocates of free schools forced their issue and evoked
                        from the enemy a variety of objections which strike the sense curiously in
                        these later years. Should the industrious be taxed to support the  indolent? Should the people be made benevolent
                        by law? There was priestcraft in the scheme; free schools were merely a
                        bait; the real object was the union of Church and State. Free schools would
                        make education too common, said some; but the fiercest antagonism came from
                        the class for whom the friends of free schools were laboringthe wretchedly
                        poor and ignorant.1 The vote on the school question was 13,000 less
                        than the vote for president cast the same day, but free schools won, the
                        affirmative vote being 78,523; the negative 61,887a majority of 16,636 for
                        free schools. The principal opposition to free schools was manifested in the
                        counties lying south of a line drawn across the map along the southern
                        boundary of Marion County, in which Indianapolis is situated. The northern
                        counties gave a majority of 18,270 for free schools; while the southern
                        division, deriving its population chiefly from the South, gave a majority of
                        1634 against the proposition. Professor Boone has pointed out that
                        "notwithstanding the denser population having the  older settlements, the established industries,
                        and all of the colleges but one, the most insistent opposition to free
                        schools came from the southern half of the State. The influence of local
                        seminaries and colleges seems to have gone for nothing in the movement for
                        free elementary schools."
                            1
                            Boone, supra, p. 104 et seq.
                            
                        
                    
                    Mills returned imperturbably to the attack in a third message carefully
                        scrutinizing this vote, and showing that of the thirty-one counties voting
                        negatively, twenty were below the general average of intelligence. The same
                        measure and tolerance that characterized all his addresses show finely in
                        this paper, in which he said: "Let the record of the affirmative
                        vote stand as a proof of the existence in our State of the spirit of
                        '76. I rejoice that we have such indubitable evidence of it. I
                        rejoice that we have been furnished with such proof that we are not the
                        degenerate sons of noble fathers, but that we possess the spirit to rebuke
                        selfishness wherever found, and however disguiseda kindred spirit to that
                        which pledged life and fortune and sacred honor to the cause of national
                        independence."
                    
                    A new school law was framed by the legislature in 18481849, which legalized
                        public taxation for schools and changed the existing system of school
                        administration; but the respective counties were to be free to adopt or
                        reject the law as they might see fit, and it was only a via
                            media, beyond which lay still much ground for the friends of
                        education to conquer. At an election held in August, 1849, the counties
                        exercised their privilege to pass on the new law. Friends and foes of free
                        schools again conducted a heated campaign, both sides amplifying the
                        arguments advanced in the former contest. The result was a majority in favor
                        of the law of 15,767, a decrease from the majority given in the preceding
                        election, though the two results may not fairly be compared, owing to local
                        issues and animosities. Fifty-nine counties voted for the law and thirty-one
                        against it, and of those that rejected it twenty were in the southern half
                        of the State. But the battle was more nearly won than the friends of
                        education imagined. The constitutional convention that met in 1850
                        prescribed in the organic law of  Indiana a
                        foundation which subsequent legislatures have built upon until a
                        comprehensive system of schools, intelligently administered and adequately
                        supported, is now the pride of the State.1 The friends of education were to
                        meet with further trials and discouragements; but the pioneer work in
                        Indiana education closed when the new constitution had been ratified by the
                        people. It is clear that any examination of the forces that raised Indiana
                        into an enlightened community must comprehend a knowledge of these early
                        struggles, and that the showier attainments of later citizens cannot obscure
                        for the sincere student the services of those who dared to stand for the
                        cause of free schools in the day of their peril.
                            1
                            In 1899 Indiana's total school fund, exclusive of college
                                endowment, was $10,312,000. The school revenue for that year, from
                                all sources, was $6,534,300. The census of 1890 showed the per cent
                                of illiterates (ten years of age and older) in Indiana to be 6.32;
                                in Ohio 5.24; in Illinois 5.25; in Michigan 5.92. In Massachusetts
                                it was 6.22; in New York 5.53; in New Jersey 6.50; in Pennsylvania
                                6.78.
                        
                    
                    Mills is an especially admirable and winning figure. He was hardly equalled
                        for sagacity  and suavity among his
                        contemporaries, and he brought to bear upon his great task a steadfastness
                        and quiet energy that no defeat could overcome. The State recognized his
                        abilities and rewarded his services by confiding to him the office of State
                        superintendent of public instruction, of which he was the second incumbent.
                        He was deeply though sanely patriotic, and during the Civil War his zeal for
                        the Union cause was so marked that one of his associates pronounced him the
                        best recruiting officer in Indiana. He belonged to Wabash College, and
                        continued in its faculty until the end of his long life (October 17, 1879),
                        giving his last years, with characteristic unselfishness and devotion, to
                        the organization of the college library.
                    The early Hoosier school-teachers were often poorly trained, and sometimes
                        were adventurers from England, Scotland, or Ireland. Occasionally they were
                        intemperate, and frequently they were eccentric characters, whose vagaries
                        made them ridiculous before their pupils; but there were competent
                        instructors among them. One of the most charming figures in the history of
                             cultivation in Indiana is Mrs. Julia L.
                        Dumont (17941857), who was born in Ohio, but for forty-three years resided
                        at Vevay, in Switzerland County. Among all the light-bringers of the first
                        half of the century in the Hoosier country Mrs. Dumont was one of the most
                        distinguished; and she was easily the woman of most varied accomplishment in
                        the Indiana of her day. She possessed an instinct for teaching, and Dr.
                        Eggleston remembers that after she was sixty a schoolroom was built for her
                        beside her husband's house, and that she taught the Vevay High
                        School in her old age, when no properly qualified teacher appeared to take
                        charge of it. Dr. Eggleston draws her portrait from memory:
                    "I can see the wonderful old lady now, as she was then with her cape
                        pinned awry, rocking her splint-bottom chair nervously while she talked,
                        full of all manner of knowledge; gifted with something very like eloquence
                        in speech, abounding in affection for her pupils and enthusiasm in teaching,
                        she moved us strangely. Being infatuated with her we became fanatic in our
                        pursuit of knowledge, so that the school hours were not enough, and we had a
                        'lyceum' in the evening for reading
                        'compositions' and a club for the study of history. If a
                        recitation became very interesting, the entire school would sometimes  be drawn into the discussion of the subject:
                        all other lessons went to the wall; books of reference were brought out of
                        her library; hours were consumed, and many a time the school session was
                        prolonged until darkness forced us reluctantly to adjourn. Mrs. Dumont was
                        the ideal of a teacher because she succeeded in forming character. She gave
                        her pupils unstinted praise, not hypocritically, but because she lovingly
                        saw the best in every one. We worked in the sunshine. A dull but industrious
                        pupil was praised for diligence, a bright pupil for ability, a good one for
                        general excellence. The dullards got more than their share, for, knowing how
                        easily such an one is disheartened, Mrs. Dumont went out of her way to
                        praise the first show of success in a slow scholar. She treated no two
                        alike. She was full of all sorts of knack and tact, a person of infinite
                        resource for calling out the human spirit."1
                        
                            1
                            "Some Western Schoolmasters," Scribner's Magazine, Vol. 17, p. 747.
                        
                    
                    Her natural grace and refinement gave to her discipline many a novel turn.
                        She endeavored, and most happily succeeded in the attempt, to link the life
                        of the time and place to "high thought and honorable
                        deeds." Once, during her administration of the Vevay High School, a
                        game of ball proved so absorbing that the boys were an hour late in
                        reporting after the noon recess. They found the teacher calmly  enthroned in her rocking-chair. She did not
                        ask for an explanation, but spoke to them firmly of their indifference; they
                        had humiliated her, she said, before the whole town. No recesses would be
                        allowed for a week, and an apology must be forthcoming the following day.
                        The apology was duly submitted in writing. The remainder of the incident is
                        best described in Dr. Eggleston's own words:
                    "The morning wore on without recess. The lessons were heard as
                        usual. As the noon hour drew near, Mrs. Dumont rose from her chair and went
                        into the library. We all felt that something was going to happen. She came
                        out with a copy of Shakespeare, which she opened at about the fifth scene of
                        the fourth act of the second part of King Henry IV. Giving the book to my
                        next neighbor and myself, she bade us read the scene, alternating with the
                        change of the speaker. You remember the famous dialogue in the scene between
                        the dying king and the prince who has prematurely taken the crown from the
                        bedside of the sleeping king. It was all wonderfully fresh to us and to our
                        schoolmates, whose interest was divided between the scene and a curiosity as
                        to the use the teacher meant to make of it. At length the reader who took
                        the king's part read:
                    
                        "'O, my son!
                        Heaven put it in thy mind to take it hence,
                        That thou mightst win the more thy father's love,
                        Pleading so wisely in excuse of it.'
                    
                    
                    Then she took the book and closed it. The application was evident to all, but
                        she made us a touching little speech, full of affection, and afterward
                        restored the recess."1
                        
                            1
                            
                                Scribner's, supra.
                            
                        
                    
                    Mrs. Dumont was the first Hoosier to become known beyond the State through
                        imaginative writing. In the little school of story-tellers and poets that
                        flourished in the Ohio Valley in its early history, she was one of the chief
                        figures. It had not then become the fashion to transcribe with fidelity our
                        American local life, and her prose sketches usually reflected nothing of the
                        pioneer times. Her "Life Sketches from Common Paths: A Series of
                        American Tales," published at New York in 1856, is in the best
                        manner of the day. Western is italicized in the preface of "Ashton
                        Gray," the novelette which closes the volume, and the author
                        evidently believed that she was making a record of the life that lay about
                        her; but after all, the scene is laid in Ohio and not in Indiana, and a
                        Western atmosphere is not discernible. The hero is the traditional hero of
                        old romance, "whose innate delicacy was refinement, and whose
                        generous impulses, chivalry," and whose "extreme  beauty" was a subject of comment from
                        fair lips. It is not surprising that Annabel, "the dreamy, the
                        impressible, the desolate Annabel," should have found Ashton
                        "her beau-ideal of the distinctive characteristics of the fearless
                        and self-sustained backwoodsman. . . . The untamed horse that tosses his
                        mane in the green savannas could scarcely have moved with more freedom; and
                        the perfect development of limb and muscle evidently arose from the
                        conscious vigor and habitual action of one accustomed to tread, not the gay
                        saloon and prescribed walks of fashion, but the rough paths of danger, and
                        the limitless range of voiceless solitudes." Ashton rescues three
                        children from a burning cabin, using a ladder, in keeping with the best
                        traditions, thus winning the heart of Annabel, who marries him
                        clandestinely, just before he is arrested for murder. He is acquitted by the
                        testimony of his supposed father, and an old Indian appears opportunely to
                        confess that Ashton was really the son of Colonel Ainsworth,
                        Annabel's guardian.
                    There was a particular vocabulary that  belonged
                        to this school of romance, and Mrs. Dumont employed it in all its
                        copiousness. When rightly used it minimized the importance of invention; and
                        it was better adapted to the portrayal of delicate and shrinking heroines
                        and noble and handsome heroes, than to the rougher work of depicting action.
                        A nice instinct was essential to its proper use, and no one of her
                        generation wielded it with more grace and ease than Mrs. Dumont. Scott and
                        Irving were the inspiration of the school in which she took so high a place;
                        and the verse which it produced so abundantly showed frequently the
                        influence of Mrs. Hemans. Mrs. Dumont's technical skill was
                        superior to that of her Western contemporaries; but it is idle and
                        ungracious to criticise the writings of one whose talents were so varied,
                        and whose life was consecrated to good works.
                    Her name inevitably suggests that of another teacher, her kinswoman, Miss
                        Catharine Merrill (18241900), who, with a wider field and larger
                        opportunity, filled a similar place at Indianapolis for fifty years. She was
                        born at Corydon, the old capital. Samuel Merrill,  her father, was a cultivated man, a native of Vermont, and an
                        early settler of Indianapolis. He subscribed to the English reviews and
                        owned a large library, whose contents circulated freely among the pioneers.
                        He had been educated at Dartmouth, and occasionally taught the higher
                        branches, but he was a man of affairs, served the public in important
                        offices, and was one of the ablest of the State's early financiers.
                        The daughter taught English literature in Butler College for eighteen years,
                        and during this time, and subsequently as a teacher of private classes,
                        inclucated in the minds of three generations a discriminating taste for
                        literature. Miss Merrill wrote (1869) "The Soldier of
                        Indiana," a valuable record of the State's participation
                        in the war of the rebellion, which contains much biographical matter that is
                        nowhere else collected. Mrs. Dumont and Miss Merrill afford delightful
                        illustrations of the compelling force of personality. In a sense one
                        succeeded the other, and, though they labored in different fields,
                        throughout a century they impressed upon the youth of the commonwealth the
                        nobility  of character and the love of learning
                        which they so happily combined in themselves.
                    Samuel K. Hoshour is another sterling figure in Indiana pedagogy. He was a
                        native of Pennsylvania, and a minister, first in the Lutheran and afterward
                        in the Disciples Church; but he was a school-teacher first, last, and
                        always, and taught many hundreds of the youth of Indiana. He was, in his
                        later years, a resident of Indianapolis, and died there in 1883. Oliver P.
                        Morton, Lew Wallace, and others of the distinguished men of the State sat
                        under his teaching. In the eyes of two generations he was the embodiment of
                        learning and scholarship; and he retained to the last something of the
                        austerity and exaggerated dignity of the old-fashioned school-teacher. He
                        was, indeed, always the schoolmaster, and a pedant, though navely seeking to
                        avoid the appearance of it. He was a linguist of wide reputation, and
                        delighted in comparative philology. He had a fancy for unusual words, and
                        took pleasure in illuminating their meanings from obscure origins. He wrote
                        a book, prized by many of his old pupils, called "Altisonant  Letters" (1840), which, as the title
                        indicates, was written in high-sounding words. It is in the form of
                        correspondence, and was devised as a kind of philological primer, to be
                        "a stepping stone from the current everyday English to the Latin
                        and Greek." The plan was not a bad one, and was in some respects a
                        forerunner of the inductive methods of teaching languages that have since
                        been popular.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    AN EXPERIMENT IN SOCIALISM
                    NEW HARMONY, the scene of Robert
                        Owen's experiment in socialism, lies in Posey County, in the far
                        southwestern corner of Indiana. The village is without direct communication
                        with the outer world, but may be approached by boat on the Wabash River, or
                        by a branch railroad which ends abruptly at New Harmony after a rough course
                        through wheat fields, which are, in spring and summer, a charming feature of
                        the landscape of this region. George Rapp gave expression to his peculiar
                        religious ideas in the community which he established there, and he sold his
                        large estate to Owen, who began building on the foundations left by Rapp a
                        social structure after plans of his own. Owen's ideas are not
                        strikingly novel when taken in connection with the history of socialism; but
                        the movement carried to Indiana many distinguished persons, and the life  of subsequent generations in and about the
                        village has, to this day, been colored by it.
                    George Rapp came to the United States from Germany, in 1803, in search of a
                        more tolerant home for the sect which he had founded. He purchased a tract
                        of land in Butler County, Pennsylvania, and during the summer of 1804 six
                        hundred of his followers, chiefly mechanics and laborers, joined him, and in
                        the following year the community known as the Harmony Society was formally
                        organized. The members were banded together in a Christian brotherhood, and
                        were orthodox in all essentials. Property was held in common, and thought
                        was directed away from mundane affairs to the second coming of the Lord,
                        which Rapp believed to be imminent. The members experienced, in 1807, a
                        great spiritual awakening, and one of its results was their acceptance of
                        celibacy as an implied if not obligatory tenet of the sect.
                    In 1814, the community sold the greater part of its holdings of real estate
                        in Pennsylvania and purchased 30,000 acres of land in Indiana, of which
                        Harmony became the centre.  The following year
                        the Rappites moved to the lower Wabash and continued in a new wilderness
                        their severe labors and ascetic practices. They marked out a village in
                        squares, with broad streets, and built houses in which beauty was sacrificed
                        to stability. It is a tribute to their excellent workmanship that many of
                        these structures are still in use, having survived two communistic
                        experiments and falling at last to the incidental needs of a Western
                        village. The Rappites had been annoyed during their sojourn in Pennsylvania
                        by unsympathetic neighbors, and fearing similar experiences with the rough
                        characters that roamed the Wabash country in those days, they deemed it wise
                        to prepare a defence. They thereupon built, of brick and stone, a
                        substantial fortress which was used as a granary. The walls were three feet
                        thick and the loopholes were barred. The story that this building was
                        connected with Rapp's house by an underground passage is
                        authoritatively denied at New Harmony.
                    The Rappites had first used a frame building as a place of worship, but later
                        they erected a  large brick meeting-house,
                        carving on the pediment above the main door a wreath and a rose, the date,
                        1822, and the inscription, "Mich IV, 8; in Memory of the Harmony
                        Society; by George Rapp, 1805." The colonists were industrious and
                        thrifty. They cleared the land, planted vineyards, manufactured woollen and
                        cotton goods and shoes, and found a ready market for all their products. The
                        original population of the Pennsylvania settlement had been about six
                        hundred persons; and during the community's life in Indiana
                        accessions of friends from Germany increased the number of members to
                        between seven and eight hundred. In 1824 Rapp again decided to move, and
                        appointed Richard Flower to negotiate a sale. Flower visited Scotland,
                        sought Robert Owen, a manufacturer and social reformer, and sold him the
                        Rappites' land for $132,000. Subsequently there was an additional
                        sale of live-stock, tools, and merchandise for $50,000, so that the total of
                        Owen's original investment at New Harmony was $182,000. The
                        Rappites thereupon disappeared from Indiana, returning to Pennsylvania,
                        where they established  a new settlement
                        called Economy, and prospered greatly.
                    Robert Owen was born in Wales, March 14, 1771. His father was a saddler, and
                        Robert began his career under no favoring circumstances. He became
                        interested in cotton spinning, for which he showed genius and at which he
                        made a fortune. He married the daughter of David Dale, the owner of
                        extensive cotton mills at New Lanark, on the Clyde, became Dale's
                        successor, and with growing fortune gave an increasing attention to social
                        and political questions. He was a pioneer in the reform of factory abuses;
                        and in his own establishment at New Lanark he made practical application of
                        his theories. He visited the Continent, where he became acquainted with many
                        persons of note, not the least of these being Pestalozzi and Fellenberg; he
                        was much in London, usually in advocacy of some reform; he acquired skill in
                        writing and speaking, and taken altogether his biography gives the
                        impression of a strong, zealous, and indefatigable nature. He was intense
                        and uncompromising, and, it must be confessed, sadly  lacking in humor. He expected to find in the new world larger
                        opportunities for the demonstration of his principles. The New Harmony
                        incident illustrates a curious conflict between the ideal and the practical
                        in Owen. It was quite like him to undertake the planting of a communistic
                        settlement in America, and to invest his own money in it; but a natural
                        business caution checked his generous impulses, and while he extended a
                        sweeping invitation to the industrious and well-disposed of all creeds to
                        join him, he was in no haste to divide his property.
                    Owen's lectures in the hall of the House of Representatives at
                        Washington, February 5 and March 27, 1825, before audiences composed of the
                        famous men of the day, gave wide publicity to his views. He displayed a
                        model of the ideal village which he proposed to found on the Wabash. The
                        community buildings were to form a hollow square 1000 feet long. The
                        material needs of his proposed colony were all provided for in the buildings
                        of his model village; and he announced a comprehensive system of education
                        in which  the young of the community should be
                        led from the lowest to the highest branches. Owen had announced that
                        "these new proceedings," as he called his plans, were to
                        take effect at New Harmonyhe gave the prefix to Rapp's name for the
                        placein April, 1826. He spent the summer of 1825 in England, but returned to
                        America in the fall, reaching New York November 7. His hospitable invitation
                        had awakened the interest of a large number of persons, ranging from sincere
                        converts to eccentric and irresponsible vagabonds, drawn from all parts of
                        the United States and Europe. What is known in New Harmony literature as
                        "the boat load of knowledge" set out from Pittsburg in
                        December, 1825. About thirty people assembled on a keel boat, which they
                        made comfortable for the voyage, and turned toward New Harmony. The ice
                        closed upon them near Beaver, and they did not reach their destination until
                        the middle of January. The passengers included Robert Owen and his sons,
                        Robert Dale and William, William Maclure, Thomas Say, Charles A. Lesueur,
                             Achilles Fretageot and wife, Captain
                        Donald Macdonald, Dr. Gerard Troost, Phiquepal d'Arusmont, and
                        Stedman Whitwell, a London architect.1 Joseph Neef followed in the
                        spring, and Frances Wright, of Nashoba fame, who married
                        d'Arusmont, first appeared there in the second year of the
                        community. Schoolcraft and Rafinesque were both visitors at New Harmony, but
                        not during the life of the Owen community, though Rafinesque has been
                        erroneously named as an original member.
                            1
                            One of the passengers on "the boat load of
                                knowledge," Victor Duclas, is still living (July, 1900) at
                                New Harmony.
                        
                    
                    The strength of the keel boat's contribution to the community lay in
                        special scientific knowledge; and if Owen's inclination toward
                        socialism had been increased by the success of Rapp's submissive
                        peasants, he erred gravely in his own choice of followers. William Maclure
                        (17631840) was a wealthy Scotchman, who turned from a successful mercantile
                        career to the natural sciences. He first visited the United States in the
                        last years of the eighteenth century, and planned a geographical  survey of the whole country. He explored at
                        his own expense a vast territory, and prepared maps showing the result of
                        his investigations. He was a founder of the Academy of Natural Sciences, at
                        Philadelphia, to which he gave generously of his fortune, and was its
                        president for more than twenty years. His friend, Thomas Say (17871834),
                        called "the father of American zoology," was also
                        connected with the Academy in its formative years. The place of both is
                        secure in the history of American science. Lesueur came to the United States
                        from the West Indies. His scientific researches had included extensive
                        investigations in Australia, and he was an early, if not indeed the first,
                        student of the Mound-builders' remains in Indiana. He was an artist
                        of considerable merit, and some of his work may be seen in the New Harmony
                        library. Troost (17761850) was a scientist of wide and exact knowledge, who
                        went to Tennessee after the collapse of New Harmony, taught the sciences for
                        many years in the University of Nashville, and was for eighteen years State
                        geologist.  was a native of Alsace. He  had been a teacher in Pestalozzi's school, in
                        Switzerland, and met there his wife, who was educated under the direction of
                        Madame Pestalozzi. They removed to Philadelphia immediately after their
                        marriage, and became acquainted with Maclure, who, like Owen, had been
                        attracted by the Pestalozzi system, and who persuaded them to join the
                        Owenites. Little is known of Macdonald, though there is a tradition at New
                        Harmony that he returned to Scotland and inherited a title of nobility.
                    Owen's followers moved into the houses that had been vacated by
                        Rapp's colonists, and set about organizing the new community. On
                        April 27 Owen addressed them in the Rappite church, which had been preempted
                        for sectarian uses and dedicated to liberal thought and free speech. He
                        spoke with great enthusiasm, declaring that he had come to introduce a new
                        and enlightened state of society, eliminate ignorance and selfishness, and
                        remove all cause for contest between individuals; but the change from the
                        new to the old could not be accomplished in a day, and he called New Harmony
                        a halfway house between the evils  he
                        complained of and the ideal. In May, the modus vivendi of
                        a preliminary society was promulgated, as a means of preparation for the
                        perfect community to which Owen looked forward. Negroes were excluded from
                        membership, though they might become "helpers," or they
                        might form an independent community. Age and experience alone were to confer
                        precedence. For the first year a committee to be appointed by the founder
                        was to have charge of affairs, and later the society might elect three
                        representatives of this council. Members were required to provide their own
                        household effects, to accept houses assigned to them, and to render their
                        best services to the community. They were to receive credit at the community
                        store for their labor, which was to be appraised by the committee of
                        management. Members might be expelled for cause, or they might voluntarily
                        retire by giving a week's notice, receiving in merchandise any
                        balance that remained to their credit. Persons wishing to live in the
                        community as non-participants in its labors might do so by paying for the
                        privilege, and the capital of any who cared to  become investors would be received. American products were to have the
                        preference in the purchase of supplies. The young were to be drilled in
                        military tactics, to the end that they might be of service to their country
                        in emergencies, until society had been reformed and war made unnecessary.
                    Within six months nearly one thousand persons had gathered at New Harmony,
                        and a considerable proportion of these seem to have been incapable, either
                        through inexperience or disinclination, of aiding in the success of
                        Owen's plans. Rapp's industries had certainly not fallen
                        into the hands of skilled or adaptable laborers. Many of the manufactories
                        which he had made profitable were not operated under the new rgime, and less
                        than a hundred farm laborers volunteered for service in carrying on the
                        plantations. Plans for education and social pleasure were received more
                        kindly than those requiring skilled labor. All children between two and
                        twelve were placed in a separate house, and clothed, lodged, and educated at
                        the public expense. The fall of 1825 found 130 children so cared for, and
                             there were also day and evening schools
                        where old and young alike might receive elementary instruction. A band was
                        organized to provide music, and Tuesday evenings were set apart for balls
                        and Friday evenings for concerts. Wednesday evenings were reserved for the
                        more serious business of discussing the purposes of the society. Military
                        exercises, as proposed by Owen, were duly conducted, and companies of
                        artillery and infantry were formed and drilled.
                    The senior Owen was absent in Scotland during the summer and fall of 1825,
                        but returned January 18, 1826, and was received with great cordiality. He
                        expressed his satisfaction with the progress that had been made during his
                        absence, and in a few days announced that he felt justified in suspending
                        the preparatory stage and inaugurating full equality. A new constitution was
                        adopted February 5, after careful consideration in town meetings. It
                        provided for community of property and business and social cooperation. The
                        members were to dwell together as one family, and no discrimination was to
                        be shown on  account of occupation. Similar
                        houses were to be provided for all, and no differences in food or clothing
                        were to be permitted. The community was to be divided into departments of
                        Agriculture, Manufactures and Mechanics, Literature and Science, Domestic
                        and General Economy, Education and Commerce. Superintendents for these
                        departments were to be chosen by an assembly consisting of all adult members
                        of the community; but the individuals in the several departments might
                        select their own foremen. A schism occurred before this constitution had
                        been signed by the members of the preliminary society. The exact cause is
                        not assigned in the Gazette, the official organ of the
                        society, conducted by Robert Dale Owen, which announced, February 15, that a
                        new community was about to be formed within two miles of the village
                        "by some respectable families who were members of the preliminary
                        society, but from conscientious motives have declined signing the new
                        constitution." Two new communities were, indeed, organized, one
                        called Macluria and the other Feiba Peveli. This latter name was  coined after an intricate system of
                        geographical nomenclature, invented by a member of the society, by which the
                        latitude and longitude of any place could be represented. The sole direction
                        of the community was intrusted to Robert Owen two weeks after the
                        reorganization, the inference from this fact being that the separation of
                        the two branches had eliminated those who were antagonistic to the founder.
                        At the end of the first year the population was distributed about as
                        follows: the original New Harmony settlement, 800; Macluria, 120; Feiba
                        Peveli, 60 or 70. The relations between Owen and the seceders were
                        apparently friendly. In an address delivered at New Harmony, May 9, he spoke
                        with satisfaction of the success of his undertaking, saying that his hopes
                        had been surpassed, and mentioning both Macluria and Feiba Peveli with
                        approval. At Macluria temporary cabins had been built and more land had been
                        cultivated than was necessary to sustain the members. Spinning and weaving
                        were practised by the women and children, who produced cloth in excess of
                        their requirements. Feiba Peveli was  a
                        farming and gardening community, reported by Owen to be doing well.
                    At this time the first Rappite church was given up to carpentry and
                        shoemaking. Boys received industrial training there and slept in the loft.
                        The second and more pretentious edifice had become a town hall, used for
                        lectures, open discussions, dances, and concerts. Rapp's former
                        homethe best residence in the placewas occupied by Maclure, who had given
                        $45,000 to assist Owen in his enterprise. Owen lived at the tavern, which
                        was conducted by the society. The rank and file were accommodated in four
                        boarding-houses pending changes that would bring all together at a common
                        table. A uniform dress for the members had been adopted, but it was not
                        generally worn. Wide trousers, buttoned over a short collarless jacket, were
                        prescribed for the men; the women wore a coat reaching to the knee, and
                        pantalettes. Bernard, Duke of Saxe-Weimar, who visited New Harmony in the
                        spring of 1826, and wrote a most entertaining account of the community,
                        described the costume and remarked that the members who had already  donned it were of the higher social class,
                        and that these did not, in the gatherings at the public hall, mingle with
                        the ruder element. Previous conditions and employments were evidently
                        remembered in the community, in spite of the founder's insistence
                        that there should be no discrimination. Many in the settlement found the
                        practical details of community life exceedingly irksome; and one, a Russian
                        lady, confided to the German nobleman her disgust with New Harmony, stating
                        that "some of the society were too low, and the table was below all
                        criticism."
                    The educational features of the community were, from all testimony, a great
                        failure and disappointment. It was one thing to assemble distinguished
                        scientists, and quite another to organize them into an effective teaching
                        corps. The school taught by d'Arusmont lasted but a short time, and
                        Robert Dale Owen, who was himself a teacher in one of the community schools,
                        while admitting the man's good qualities, described him as
                        "a wrong-headed genius, whose extravagance and wilfulness and
                        inordinate self-conceit destroyed his usefulness."  Neef had been an officer under Napoleon, and
                        his rough military habits had not been wholly corrected by his subsequent
                        association with Pestalozzi. The Duke of Saxe-Weimar gives a lively picture
                        of him, drilling his boy pupils in military tactics as he led them to the
                        performance of certain labors in the village. Maclure, Say, and Troost did
                        not engage actively in teaching. Paul Brown stated, in a pamphlet assailing
                        the society, that he began teaching in the boarding-school in September,
                        1826; but from his own story Brown was chiefly employed with meditations on
                        the evils of the place, and his manifestations of temper argue against his
                        value as a teacher. Madame Fretageot was associated with Neef, and the two
                        had charge of the boarding-school. Madame Neef was not regularly employed as
                        a teacher, but sometimes assisted her husband.
                    Robert Owen's unfriendly attitude toward religion had awakened
                        hostility in England before he came to the United States. Packard, one of
                        his biographers, expresses no doubt as to Owen's disbelief in the
                        inspiration of the  Bible and in the divine
                        origin of Christianity. Lloyd Jones, the writer of another life of Owen,
                        seeks to mitigate the effect of some of the statements in Owen's
                        "New Moral World"; but it is sufficiently clear that when
                        he was at the height of his fame and usefulness in England, Owen estranged
                        many of his most influential friends and admirers by his flings at religion,
                        which were serious enough to arouse the wrath of an occasional
                        heresy-hunting bishop. Sargent, the author of "Robert Owen and his
                        Philosophy," says that Owen suffered for his religious opinions
                        "neglect, hatred, contempt, calumny, and all the evils that follow
                        the excommunicated man." In his "Declaration of Mental
                        Independence" at New Harmony, July 4, 1826, Owen inveighed against
                        "a trinity of the most monstrous evils that could be combined to
                        inflict mental and physical evil upon the whole race. I refer to private or
                        individual property, absurd and irrational systems of religion, and marriage
                        founded on individual property combined with some of these irrational
                        systems of religion"a statement that was somewhat advanced for the
                        Wabash Valley of that period. He  seemed to
                        ignore the spiritual element in man, though, according to Sargent, he
                        expressed in his old age his belief that a Divine Providence had guided him
                        through his long career; and late in life he became a convert to
                        spiritualism. There is no evidence that Owen ever held loose ideas of the
                        relations of the sexes, though such opinions were attributed to him. He
                        believed that marriage should be founded on mutual sympathy and
                        congeniality, and he wished the imagination to be excluded and judgment made
                        the sole guide in such matters. This, like many of his teachings, seems
                        equivocal; but he believed that where these prerequisites ceased to exist it
                        should be possible to terminate a marriage. Owen and Maclure both believed
                        fully in the equality of the sexes. New Harmony schools were co-educational,
                        and women were admitted to all the councils of the society. It is not clear
                        that they were always permitted to vote, though widows succeeded to the
                        suffrages of their husbands. A woman's society was organized, and
                        is supposed to have been similar to literary clubs as now known, though
                        there is but one reference to the organization in  the Gasettea notice of the postponement of a
                        meeting in November, 1825.
                    Owen's refusal to make a formal transfer of his property to the
                        community continued to be a cause of dissatisfaction. The founder spoke
                        hopefully of the future, but he took care that his enthusiasm should not run
                        away with his judgment, so he continued to hold his little principality in
                        fee simple. When questioned as to his intentions in this particular, he
                        replied, as officially reported in the Gasette of August
                        30, 1826: "I shall be ready to form such a community whenever you
                        are ready for it. . . . But progress must be made in community education
                        before all parties can be prepared for a community of common
                        property." The assembly thereupon adopted a resolution that they
                        meet three evenings in the week for community education, but this was
                        evidently regarded by the members as a severe penalty to pay for the cause
                        of socialism. Robert Dale Owen wrote that the meetings continued
                        "with gradually lessening numbers."
                    Troubles came thick and fast in the fall of 1826. Several adventurers openly
                        tried to  defraud Owen, and an era of
                        suspicion began. A man named Taylor joined the community, at Owen's
                        invitation, to take charge of the industries, but after getting possession
                        of a tract of land he started a distillery, greatly to the
                        founder's annoyance. Brown describes with great particularity the
                        unhappy condition that prevailed during the fall and winter of 1826. He
                        complains that Owen was living in luxury at the tavern, while the laborers
                        in the large boarding-houses fared badly. Although there were several
                        professional gardeners in the community, there was a lack of vegetables, and
                        the necessities were doled out sparingly. Brown believed that the founder
                        was trying to retrieve his fortunes, and he speaks of him as
                        "willing to shift into the character of a retailer and tavern
                        keeper." The Gasette was, in Brown's
                        belief, the personal organ of Owen, whom he calls "the lord
                        proprietor of the press"; but this may be merely the wail of the
                        rejected, for Brown admits that his own contributions were repeatedly
                        scorned, so that to gain publicity he was obliged to post them on the
                        gateway of the educational society, taking them in at night for  safety. He says that in spite of the balls
                        and promenade concerts the people remained strangers, and he deplores the
                        amount of time and candles wasted in these frivolities. As to the
                        educational features of the place, Brown expresses his opinion that there
                        was no other place in the United States where a like number of children in
                        the same compass "were of so harsh, insolent, rash, boisterous, and
                        barbarous dispositions." Brown deals drastically with the auditing
                        department of the community. He intimates that when a debit balance appeared
                        against a member on the books, credit was immediately stopped at the store.
                        He gives the instance of a gardener named Gilbert, who was suddenly served
                        with his discharge in December, when his family were ill, because he was
                        performing no labor and had fallen in arrears. Gilbert asked for an
                        investigation, which was held, and the court found in his favor.
                    Twenty heads of families were notified to quit February 1, 1827; March 21
                        there was an exodus of about eighty persons, who took a steamboat for the
                        upper Ohio, and March 28  the Gasette contained an editorial admitting the failure of New
                        Harmony, the central community, but maintaining that the auxiliary societies
                        were successful. The reason assigned for the collapse was that "the
                        members were too various in their feelings, and too dissimilar in their
                        habits, to govern themselves harmoniously as one community." Owen
                        delivered a farewell address to the citizens, May 26. He spoke with patient
                        forbearance of the element that had joined the community merely to become a
                        burden upon him; but he was severe upon his associates who had undertaken
                        the educational work of the society but had failed to organize such schools
                        as he had expected. He had wished the children to be "educated in
                        similar habits, dispositions, and feelings, and be brought up truly as
                        members of one large family, without a single discordant feeling."
                        If the schools had not proved ineffectual, he believed that even with the
                        hetrogeneous mass that had collected on his lands a successful society could
                        have been founded. However, turning from these unpleasant reflections, with
                        characteristic optimism, he declared that "the social system is now
                             firmly established; the natural and easy
                        means of forming communities have been developed by your past experience. .
                        . . New Harmony is now, therefore, literally surrounded by independent
                        communities, and applications are made almost daily by persons who come from
                        far and near to be permitted to establish themselves in a similar
                        manner." The eight communities referred to were probably little
                        more than tentative colonies, planted on Owen's lands under lease.
                        There is no evidence that a community organization was maintained for any
                        length of time at Macluria or Feiba Peveli after the collapse at New Harmony
                        village, and of the remainder of the eight to which Owen referred there is
                        no further record. They vanished with the others, and presently passed to
                        individual owners or lessees. Brown summarizes the disappearance of
                        communism and the return of the old order in these words: "The
                        greater part of the town was now resolved into individual lots; a grocery
                        was established opposite the tavern; painted sign boards began to be stuck
                        up on the buildings, pointing out places of manufacture and trade; a sort of
                        wax figure  and puppet show was opened at one
                        of the boarding-houses, charging twenty-five cents for adults and twelve and
                        a half for children; and everything went on in the old style."
                    Owen's teachings and example led to other experiments in America
                        besides those he personally conducted on the Wabash; but American socialism
                        of the Owen period was most fully expressed at New Harmony. Owen's
                        ardor for social reforms continued unabated. He visited Mexico shortly after
                        the New Harmony failure, to secure a concession of land for further
                        experiments. The negotiations failed, and he is next heard of at Cincinnati,
                        in April, 1829, debating religious questions with Alexander Campbell. He did
                        not appear in America again until the fall of 1844, when he spent a short
                        time on his New Harmony lands, lectured in many cities, established friendly
                        relations with Brisbane and other Fourierites, and, in the spring of 1845,
                        visited Brook Farm. He was last at New Harmony in the fall of 1846.
                    It could hardly be expected that a village which had been the home of two
                        orders of exiles could descend at once to the commonplace, and  the subsequent history of New Harmony is not
                        disappointing. Through many years scientists of distinction and radicals of
                        all degrees visited the place; Maclure made it his headquarters; Say lived
                        and died there; the sons of Robert Owen became residents and gained
                        honorable distinction in science and politics; books that still have value
                        were written and published in the village. Robert Dale Owen (18011877)
                        turned from communism to politics and literature, and few citizens of
                        Indiana have lived lives more useful or memorable. He was educated at
                        Hofwyl, under Fellenberg, and after a few years of commercial experience at
                        New Lanark, he joined the New Harmony community. He shared, in large
                        measure, his father's interests in social and economic matters, and
                        after the fall of New Harmony he and Frances Wright conducted a radical
                        paper called the Free Enquirer at New York. In 1833 he
                        returned to New Harmony and was soon launched upon a brilliant career. He
                        was elected a representative to the Indiana General Assembly and to the
                        National Congress, and he was an influential and active member of the
                        convention  that revised the Indiana
                        constitution. The Indiana laws granting independent property rights to women
                        were largely due to his efforts, and he introduced in Congress, in December,
                        1845, the bill under which the Smithsonian Institute was organized. He was
                        appointed charg d'affaires at Naples in 1853, and when the grade of
                        the post was raised he was continued as minister until 1858. In 1863, he was
                        chairman of a commission appointed by the Secretary of War to examine the
                        condition of the freedmen. He had written to the President, urging
                        emancipation before this step had been determined upon, and Secretary Chase
                        said that Owen's letter to Lincoln had greatly influenced the
                        President to make his proclamation. Mr. Owen wrote often and well, and with
                        a facility and force that gave him wide reputation for learning and literary
                        accomplishment. His books include "Pocahontas: A Dream"
                        (1837); "Hints on Architecture" (1849);
                        "Footprints on the Boundary of Another World" (1859);
                        "Beyond the Breakers: A Novel" (1870); "Debatable
                        Land Between this World and the Next" (1872); and
                        "Threading my  Way" (1874).
                        He became deeply interested in spiritualism, and two of his books, as the
                        titles indicate, are devoted to this subject. He travelled much and knew
                        many of the men and women eminent in the early years of the nineteenth
                        century, including La Fayette and Mrs. Shelley. His daughter Rosamund
                        married Laurence Oliphant.
                    David Dale, another son of Robert (18071860), was educated at Hofwyl and
                        Glasgow, and reached New Harmony in the year of the community's
                        failure. He was employed by the Indiana legislature to make a geological
                        survey of the State, and in 1839 the general government engaged him to
                        examine Western mineral lands. He explored Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin
                        under this appointment. Ten years later he made similar surveys in
                        Minnesota. During all this time New Harmony was his home and headquarters,
                        and the rendezvous of his associates, and his collections of specimens were
                        assembled there. He was State geologist of Kentucky from 1854 to 1857, and
                        then turned to Arkansas, of which he made thorough geological surveys. In
                        1859 he was appointed  State geologist of
                        Indiana, and held the office until his death. He was a skilled chemist and a
                        doctor of medicine as well as a trained natural scientist and geologist. He
                        knew the use of pencil and brush, and illustrated his reports with sketches
                        that greatly enhanced their value.
                    Military talent expressed itself in the Owen family in Richard, still another
                        of Robert's sons (18101890), who was also a graduate of Hofwyl. He
                        came to America and engaged in business until the Mexican War, in which he
                        served as captain, and later assisted his brother, DAvid Dale, in his
                        surveys of the Northwest. He taught the natural sciences in the Military
                        Institute of Kentucky, and when it was merged in the University of Nashville
                        he continued in the same capacity with the new institution. Meanwhile he
                        had, with the energy and ambition characteristic of his family, earned the
                        degree of Doctor of Medicine, though he never practised. He served in the
                        Civil War as colonel of the Sixtieth Indiana Regiment, principally in the
                        Southwest, and was once taken prisoner. After the war he taught in the
                        University of Indiana for fifteen years, retiring finally to New  Harmony, where, in the old Rapp mansion, he
                        continued his studies, writing constantly for the scientific periodicals. He
                        married a daughter of Neef. William Owen, who had reached New Harmony in
                        time to aid his brother, Robert Dale, in editing the Gasette, continued to live in Indiana, and became a successful
                        financier. Descendants of Robert Owen still live at New Harmony, and the
                        name is one to conjure with in all the lower Wabash Valley.
                    The excellent work of the New Harmony press proves that good craftsmanship
                        was encouraged and appreciated in the early days. The Gasette, and its successor, the Disseminator, are
                        models of accurate and tasteful typography, and the books published from
                        this isolated village are even more creditable. Say's
                        "American Conchology" was wholly printed at New Harmony,
                        the title page bearing date 1830. Its copious illustrations are the work of
                        New Harmony lithographers, and the tinting of the engravings, which was done
                        by Mrs. Say, reproduces accurately the delicate shadings of the shells. Her
                        colors are still fresh and true in copies of this work. Parts  of Say's "American
                        Entomology," which he had begun at Philadelphia, were finished at
                        New Harmony. Maclure was an industrious writer, and the imprint of the New
                        Harmony press is found in two substantial volumes, one dated 1831, the other
                        1837, in which he collected short essays on innumerable topics. Josiah
                        Warren was for a time at least the New Harmony publisher, and
                        Michaux's "North American Sylva" was reprinted by
                        him from plates brought from Paris by Maclure, though the unbound sheets of
                        the New Harmony edition were consumed by fire.
                    Warren was a reformer as well as a publisher. He was connected with New
                        Harmony for a short time in community days, but left, returning in 1842 to
                        establish a "time store." In the "time
                        store" he sold merchandise to none who could not return the actual
                        cash cost, plus a profit which must be paid in a "labor
                        note." This form of currency represented a specified number of
                        hours of labor, pledged by mechanics or others. When a customer entered his
                        shop and began discussing a purchase, Warren started a clock which marked
                        the amount of  time consumed in the sale: this
                        was the basis for computing the merchant's profit. Warren could
                        often be seen in the streets of New Harmony with large amounts of labor
                        currency. This medium of exchange required careful handling, as some would
                        appraise their labor too high, and now and then depreciation followed an
                        over-issue by some careless or unscrupulous individual. Warren conducted
                        this enterprise for about two years, departing to carry the gospel of
                        "equitable commerce," as he called it, elsewhere.
                    In 1838 the Workingmen's Institute and Library was organized at
                        Maclure's suggestion and with money that he contributed. Later, Dr.
                        Edward Murphy generously gave to this association a handsome building, which
                        contains the library, an art gallery,largely Dr. Murphy's gift,a
                        hall, and museum. The building stands in a pretty park and is ideally
                        adapted to its purposes. The library contains 12,000 volumes, well selected
                        and particularly rich in scientific works. It includes every available book
                        relating to American socialism, and many of the original New Harmony records
                             are preserved there. Dr. Murphy has
                        provided an endowment for it and for an annual course of lectures. The
                        lecture course is greatly prized by the citizens, who have heard under its
                        auspices many of the learned men of the day. There was no church in the
                        village for many years; indeed, with the passing of Rapp little attention
                        was paid to religious matters at New Harmony until late in the century, and
                        though there are Episcopal and Methodist organizations in the village now,
                        the life of the people does not centre about the churches as in most
                        communities of the same size. An old citizen describes the attitude of the
                        inhabitants toward religion as one of tolerance merely. Several branches of
                        the Owen family are Episcopalians. Dancing as a feature of social life has
                        survived from community times, and a first-of-May ball, followed by a dance
                        for children, has long been fixed in the local calendar.
                    Thus Robert Owen's brief experiment, failing of his purpose, led to
                        the founding of an American family whose members have shown unusual talents,
                        creditable alike to their distinguished progenitor and to the State which
                             became, by chance, their home. He failed
                        to establish an asylum for the oppressed, as he had intended, but he was
                        responsible for the impulse that made of his village a centre of scientific
                        inquiry and the home of men of renown. It is impossible to separate the New
                        Harmony of to-day from the village of the past. At every turn, the buildings
                        of the Rappites and the traces of Owen's disciples suggest the old
                        times; and descendants of the Owens, Fretageots, Beales, Fauntleroys,
                        Dransfields, Wheaterofts, and many others dating back to community times,
                        still live there. New Harmony is a pleasant place in May and June, when the
                        great lines of maples in the broad streets are at their best, and all the
                        quiet valley is fresh and green. It invites by its air of antiquity and
                        peace; the sheltered life is still possible there. In the present, it is the
                        ideal Western village; in its memories it marks the first high tide of
                        cultivation at the West.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    THE HOOSIER INTERPRETED
                    THE rural type in Indiana has found notable interpretation
                        at the hands of two writers who, working independently of each other and at
                        different periods, have made records of great social and literary value and
                        interest. As already indicated, country life at the West and Southwest has
                        not varied widely in different communities. The same social conditions and
                        peculiarities of speech have been observable in many regions deriving
                        population from common sources; but the type found in the Ohio Valley was
                        best defined in Indiana, and it has gained its greatest fame through the
                        interpretations of Edward Eggleston and James Whitcomb Riley. Their outlook
                        on life has been wholly different, and their literary methods have been
                        antipodal; but they have both been keen observers of the rural Indianians,
                        though of different generations. They meet in a strong  affection for their native soil, and in an appreciation of the
                        essential domesticity and moral enlightenment of the people they depict.
                    
                        I. Edward Eggleston
                        
                        Switzerland County lies in the far southeastern corner of the State, and
                            Vevay, its principal town and capital, is on the Ohio River. The name of
                            the county is explained by the fact of its settlement by Swiss
                            immigrants, who were drawn thither by the supposed adaptability of the
                            soil to the growth of the grape. Vevay lies about midway between
                            Louisville and Cincinnati, and the steamboats plying between these two
                            cities are its only medium of communication with the world, as no
                            railway touches it. It was to this pretty village that Joseph Cary
                            Eggleston, the father of Edward and George Cary Eggleston, came in 1832.
                            The impression has been abroad that the author of "The Hoosier
                            Schoolmaster" was himself reared amid the squalor and ignorance
                            which he described so vividly, but this is without foundation of fact.
                            The Egglestons were of good Virginia stock, and the members of the
                            Indiana branch of the  family were
                            cultivated people. Joseph Cary was graduated from William and Mary
                            College in his seventeenth year with high honors. He had studied law
                            before he left Virginia, and the fourteen years of his life that
                            remained to him after his removal to Indiana were spent in the
                            successful practice of his profession. He was, moreover, popular in the
                            community, for he sat in both branches of the General Assembly, and was
                            nominated for representative in Congress, but failed of election. He
                            married, soon after reaching Indiana, the daughter of George Craig, of
                            Craig township, in Switzerland County. The Craigs were of a
                            distinguished Kentucky family, and, like the Egglestons, looked back to
                            a Virginia ancestry. Edward Eggleston was born at Vevay in 1837, and has
                            never failed to speak with great cordiality and affection of the pretty
                            river town whose chief distinction lies in his own attainments. He has
                            even taken occasion in recent years1 to rebuke "a
                            certain condescension in New Englanders", which had prompted
                            the Atlantic Monthly to comment on the hardship it
                            must  have been "to a highly
                            organized man" to be born in southern Indiana in the crude
                            early years of the nineteenth century. Dr. Eggleston declares that he
                            has retained enough of local prejudice to feel that he would have lost
                            more than he could have gained had Plymouth Rock or Beacon Hill been his
                            birthplace rather than Vevay. He was sensitive to the loveliness of the
                            Indiana spring and summer, and has paid tribute to it in words which it
                            is a pleasure to repeat:
                                1
                                
                                    The Forum, November, 1890.
                            
                        
                        "The sound of the anvil in the smithy, and the soft clatter of
                            remote cow-bells on the 'commons,' linger in my mind
                            as memories inseparable from my boyhood in Vevay. A certain poetic
                            feeling which characterized me from childhood, and which, perhaps,
                            finally determined my course toward literary pursuits, was nourished by
                            my delight in the noble scenery about Vevay, Madison, and New Albany, in
                            which places I lived at various times. My brother George and myself were
                            walkers, partly because our father had been one before us. Nothing could
                            be finer than our all-day excursions to the woods in search of
                            hickory-nuts, wild grapes, blackberries, paw-paws, or of nothing at all
                            but the sheer pleasure of wandering in one of the noblest forests that
                            it ever fell to a boy's lot to have for a playground. Then,
                            too, when we had some business five or twenty miles away, we scorned to
                            take the steamboat, but just set out afoot along the  river bank, getting no end of pleasure
                            out of the walk, and out of that sense of power which unusual fatigue,
                            cheerfully borne, always gives."1
                            
                                1
                                
                                    The Forum, supra.
                                
                            
                        
                        Dr. Eggleston's early life was full of vicissitude, but he has
                            himself disclaimed credit for being what is called "a self-made
                            man." It is true that he had his own way to make, in great
                            measure, but he began with all the benefits of good ancestry, and he
                            was, in his own phrase, "born into an intellectual
                            atmosphere." Joseph Cary Eggleston, who died when Edward was
                            only nine years old, provided in his will for the exchange of his law
                            library for books of general interest, that his children might have good
                            literature about them in their formative yearsa direction that was
                            followed faithfully by his widow. The boy Edward grew up with the ideal
                            of a scholarly father before him, and with an ambition to know books and
                            to read other languages than his own. He learned also the mystery of
                            type-setting, and contributed items to the Vevay Reveille, duly "set up." Dr. Eggleston records
                            that in his primary schooling, conducted by  his mother, he proved himself a dull scholar, but that some kind of
                            climacteric was passed in his tenth year, and that thenceforward he was
                            the pride of his teachers. Manual training was hardly dreamed of in
                            those days, but Joseph Eggleston had an appreciation of its value and
                            left what Edward has described as "a solemn injunction that his
                            sons should be sent to the country every summer and taught manual labor
                            on a farm." This injunction was carefully obeyed, so that
                            Edward Eggleston had an actual experience of farming and a contact with
                            farm folk that was a part of his preparation for the writing of the
                            tales that gave him his first fame. Judge Miles Eggleston,
                            Joseph's brother, was more distinctly an Indianian than any
                            other member of the family by reason of his long residence in the State
                            and his public services. Guilford Eggleston, Joseph Eggleston's
                            cousin, was identified with the family life at Vevay. He was a man of
                            many accomplishments, and left a deep impression on Edward Eggleston,
                            who has spoken of his brilliant talk as a perpetual inspiration:
                            "He incessantly stimulated my love  for literature, guided my choice of books, taught me to make a
                            commonplace book of my reading, and by his conversation and example made
                            me feel that to lead an intellectual life was the most laudable pursuit
                            of a human being." The direction thus given to the boyish
                            impulse, and the atmosphere of his home, were of great importance to
                            Edward, for of systematic schooling he was to know little. He was never
                            but once in his life able to spend three consecutive months in school,
                            and after he reached his tenth year the sum of his schooling was only
                            eighteen months.
                        Joseph Eggleston had foreseen his own death and provided in various ways
                            for the education of his sons. He purchased a scholarship in Asbury
                            (DePauw) College, but continued ill health made it impossible for Edward
                            to avail himself of its benefits, though his younger brother, George
                            Cary, became a student there. Just what Edward Eggleston lost by his
                            irregular schooling, which was almost wholly independent of instructors
                            in the usual sense of the term, is hardly a profitable subject for
                            speculation. By following his own bent, he strengthened  himself along lines of natural
                            preference, and he formed that habit of wise selection and rejection
                            which in itself marks the educated man. Although schoolhouse doors were
                            closed against him on account of his precarious health, he was
                            nevertheless permitted to court death by close application in home
                            study. He acquired, by the time he reached his twenty-fifth year, some
                            knowledge of six or seven languages, and a familiar acquaintance with
                            classical English and French poetry. He knew both the English and French
                            dramatic literature, though, having been bred in the strictest teaching
                            of the Methodists of that day, he read few novels, and he gives his own
                            testimony that he should have esteemed it "a damnable sin to
                            see a play on the stage."
                        When Edward Eggleston was in his twelfth year, his mother remarried,
                            taking for her husband the Rev. William Terrell, a Methodist minister.
                            This change brought with it a wider horizon for the boy, as his
                            stepfather's duties led the family away from Vevay to Madison
                            and New Albany, also on the Ohio, but larger towns than Vevay. When
                            sixteen, he spent  more than a year with
                            his father's family in Virginia. The sharp transition from the
                            conditions in the newer to those of the older country quickened his
                            powers of observation. The tribulations of the Western pioneers had been
                            discussed in his hearing by his elders during the most impressionable
                            years of his childhood; his grandfather Craig's stone house was
                            a reminder of times not remote when the Indians were a daily menace; and
                            the recitals of the wandering apostles of Methodism in his
                            mother's house had given him further contact with the adventure
                            and romance of pioneer life. Virginia opened new vistas, and the novel
                            conditions of life that he found there extended his knowledge of men and
                            manners, and afforded an opportunity for criticism and comparison that
                            was of definite value. He found himself cousin to a considerable part of
                            the population, and this wide relationship gave him an acquaintance with
                            the charming social life of old Virginia; but he counted himself an
                            abolitionist, he says, from the time of this visit.
                        The abundant vitality of Dr. Eggleston's later years has been so
                            strikingly characteristic  that it is
                            difficult to believe that ill health followed him from semi-invalid
                            boyhood into manhood; but the year after his return from Virginia he was
                            sent to Minnesota in the hope that the change might benefit him, and the
                            kind fates thus threw him into still other and different experiences. He
                            was in the new Northwest when the free-soil excitement in Kansas
                            thrilled the country, and he set out afoot, with a dirk knife as his
                            only weapon, for the scene of conflict. He has himself described the
                            failure and result of this excursion:
                        "After weeks of weary walking and nights spent in the
                            discomforts of frontier cabins. I grew sick at heart and longed for the
                            companionship and refinements of home. I was rather glad to learn that
                            men from the free States were entirely shut out of the besieged
                            territory on the Iowa side. My moceasins were worn out, my feet were
                            sore, my little stock of money was failing, and I was tired of
                            husbanding it by eating crackers and cheese. I turned eastward at a
                            point west of Cedar Falls, crossed the Mississippi at Muscatine, and
                            after walking in all three or four hundred miles, I at length boarded a
                            railway train at a station near Galesburg, and reached my nearest
                            relatives after an enforced fast of twenty-four hours, without a cent in
                            my pocket, and looking, in my soiled and travel-worn  garments, like a young border ruffian. I
                            had left home a pale invalid; I returned sun-browned and well."
                        But this gain in bodily strength was not to profit him long. He had been
                            bred in the Methodist faith; his stepfather was a minister of wide
                            reputation in this denomination, and the youth, with his studious
                            disposition and gift for speech, turned naturally to the ministry. He
                            has said of himself that an inward conflict between his predisposition
                            to literary work and the tendency to religion and philanthropy began in
                            boyhood and has continued throughout his life. There were times in his
                            youth when his love for literature seemed an idolatry, and once in a
                            repentant mood he destroyed his youthful manuscripts and resolved to
                            abandon literature. He was now launched upon the Methodist circuit
                            rider's life of hardship and peril, covering a four
                            weeks' itinerary in the county of which New Albany is the
                            capital, and performing his duties with such diligence that in six
                            months he was again a wreck. He therefore removed to Minnesota, and
                            continued in the ministry, save for intervals of physical prostration,
                            until,  in 1866, he accepted the
                            editorship of The Little Corporal, a popular juvenile
                            periodical published at Chicago, and from that beginning was
                            irresistibly drawn to the business of making books. In 1874, he became
                            pastor of a church in Brooklyn, to which he gave the name of the Church
                            of Christian Endeavor, and which sought to make sunshine in shady
                            places. It was, indeed, the "Church of the Best
                            Licks," of the "Hoosier Schoolmaster,"
                            slightly conventionalized. Dr. Eggleston continued in the pastorate for
                            five years, devoting himself to his work with his accustomed zeal and
                            enthusiasm, which resulted in another collapse. He then retired finally
                            from the ministry; but the phrase, "Christian
                            Endeavor," first applied by Dr. Eggleston to his Brooklyn
                            church, is widely known as the name of a society of young people.
                        Unconscious preparation for a life-employment has rarely been more
                            clearly exemplified in American literature than in the case of Dr.
                            Eggleston. This is not true as to his novels of Western life merely, but
                            as to the later historical writing in which he has so successfully  detected and appraised various aspects of
                            our social growth. His early experiences at the West were indelibly
                            written in his memory, and though he did not at once transcribe them,
                            his work as editor sharpened his instincts and helped him to an
                            appreciation of his own material. His removal to New York in 1870 was
                            another fortunate step of preparation, for it gave him a perspective
                            which he could not have gained had he remained at the West. He wrote
                            almost immediately "The Hoosier Schoolmaster," the
                            first draft, designed for Hearth and Home, being in
                            the form of a short story, which he extended to its present form at the
                            suggestion of one of the proprietors of the periodical. The reading of
                            Taine's "Art in the Netherlands" was the
                            quickening influence that led to the writing of the story. Dr. Eggleston
                            learned from Taine that an artist should paint what he sees, and he
                            therefore undertook to portray the illiterate people of southern
                            Indiana. The story was published in book form and gained wide
                            popularity, which has not diminished in the thirty years since its
                            appearance. Dr. Eggleston has been criticised  severely in Indiana for the series of novels that began
                            with "The Hoosier Schoolmaster," but this criticism
                            has come largely from a new generation that does not view these tales in
                            the light of history, and is, therefore, hardly competent to pass on
                            their veracity. By the legal tests for expert witnesses Dr. Eggleston is
                            certainly qualified to speak; his own experience and the social
                            evolution of the people of Indiana contribute to the creation of his
                            competency; and when we add to these considerations his instinctive
                            interest in the beginnings and tendencies of American life, it is not
                            possible to reject him. He knew, as he says, "the antique
                            Hoosier." The Indiana of 1850 was very different from that of
                            1870, and Dr. Eggleston was looking backward a score of years when he
                            created Ralph Hartsook, the youthful schoolmaster, and threw about him
                            an atmosphere of ignorance and vice. The story is an instructive
                            footnote to the history of education in Indiana. "Bud Means is
                            of the second generation of Hoosiersthe generation which, outside of the
                            first social order, had little or no benefit of education, and  which sank to the condition of illiteracy
                            that awakened presently the efforts of the faithful few who won the
                            fight for free schools. Courage preceded knowledge as a requirement of
                            pedagogues in the period of which Dr. Eggleston wrote.
                            "'Lickin' and larnin' goes together;
                            no lickin', no larnin',' declared Peter
                            Jones." The student who may hereafter scan the educational
                            history of Indiana and read with dismay the statistics compiled by
                            Mills, will welcome this unadorned tale, that illuminates and confirms
                            the dry facts of the statistician. Eggleston, the novelist, kept
                            Eggleston, the preacher, well in hand, and there is not tedious
                            moralizing in the book. It is not difficult to understand the prompt
                            recognition of the story or its long-continued attraction. The subject
                            was novel, the characters were new, and the scene was set in a region
                            that had never before been seriously explored by the story-teller. It
                            was, as an army officer put it, a cavalry dash into literature. The
                            incidents were linked together with skill, and their air of entire
                            credibility has not been lost in the years that have passed since it
                            surprised and delighted its first readers.  Enjoyment of the story was not limited to English readers. It was
                            translated into French by Madame Blanc, and was published in condensed
                            form in the Revue des Deux Mondes with the title
                            "Le Maitre d'cole de Flat Creek." German and
                            Danish translations followed, so that "Bud Means" has
                            enjoyed opportunities for foreign travel quite unusual among his
                            neighbors.
                        "The End of the World" (1872) continued the series of
                            stories which Dr. Eggleston had begun in the
                            "Schoolmaster." Religious phenomena were the most
                            marked social expression in the time and place of which he wrote. It was
                            religion that offered to the isolated people of the new frontier the
                            only relied that their lives knew from toil, hardship, and danger; and
                            what appears now, at the distance of fifty years, to have been a mania
                            was with them a grave and vital matter. "The End of the
                            World" is a tale of the Millerite excitement, which swept the
                            country in 18421843, and Dr. Eggleston adapted it very entertainingly to
                            the purposes of fiction. "The Mystery of
                            Metropolisville" (1873) led away from Indiana  into Minnesota, with which Dr. Eggleston
                            had become acquainted as a minister. Against a background of the
                            land-booming period, he illustrates the dangers and temptations of the
                            pioneers; and while the tale is less satisfactory than any of the
                            Indiana series, it remains after thirty years a readable novel. It was
                            hardly possible for Dr. Eggleston to forget wholly the people he had
                            known on the Ohio, and he introduces in "The Mystery of
                            Metropolisville" a Hoosier poet, who had left the
                            "Waybosh" because his literary efforts were not
                            appreciated there. He carried his ambitions into Minnesota, became a
                            trapper and land speculator, and there, to quote from one of his own
                            stanzas,
                        "His Hoosier harp hangs on the wild water-willer."
                        Dr. Eggleston had been established at New York for eight years when he
                            wrote "Roxy" (1878), one of the best of his books, and
                            one which depicts even more vividly than "The Hoosier
                            Schoolmaster" his early environment. He was now forty-one, and
                            the years that had added to the sum of his experience had developed  also his natural instinct for character.
                            The dramatic quality, too, shows strongly in this tale, which is, in its
                            moral relation, a kind of Western "Scarlet Letter."
                            There is more or less of Vevay in this novel,it is not important to
                            inquire too curiously whether it be more or less,and the pretty river
                            village, with its slight foreign color, which was derived from the Swiss
                            residents, the mystery and novelty of the broad river highway, the
                            simplicity of the life, its lazy gossip and its religious enthusiasms,
                            are all depicted with fidelity. The Bonabys, father and son, the lurking
                            figure of Nancy, Twonnet, and Roxy, possess the interest that attaches
                            to fresh types. The introduction of the volatile Twonnet, a member of
                            the Swiss Colony, in contrast with the sober Roxy, the unobtrusive
                            presentation of the religious problems that held the attention of the
                            community, and the blending of the threads of young Bonaby's
                            destiny, are accomplished with skill and power.
                        In "The Circuit Rider" (1874) Dr. Eggleston crossed the
                            Indiana boundary into southern Ohio, but for all critical purposes the
                            type remained  the same. Political
                            frontiers do not deter the novelist, who enjoys extra-territorial
                            privileges. "The Circuit Rider" is not so entertaining
                            a story as "Roxy." The characters do not take hold of
                            the imagination here as in the later book, and those somewhat vague
                            qualities that combine to the creation of atmosphere are not blended so
                            effectively. But as a picture of the strenuous religious life of the
                            Ohio Valley in the early half of the century, the story is most
                            important. In "Roxy" the strife between Calvinism and
                            Wesleyism is more strongly contrasted; but "The Circuit
                            Rider" gives a vivid impression of a period that was made
                            remarkable by the heroism and sacrifice of the Methodist evangelists.
                            After "Roxy" Dr. Eggleston did not return to the field
                            of his early successes until he wrote "The Graysons"
                            (1887). Like "The Circuit Rider" this story is not,
                            geographically speaking, of Indiana, but it is nevertheless of that
                            broader Hoosierdom which comprehended a small part of southern Ohio and
                            considerably more of Illinois. This is one of the best of all the
                            Hoosier cycle, and, indeed, one of  the
                            best of American novels. There is not an inartistic line in the book,
                            and the manner in which Lincoln is introduced as a character, appearing
                            as the attorney for a boy charged with murder, and winning his freedom
                            by a characteristic resort to homely philosophy, is achieved so simply
                            that the reader is left wondering whether it could really have been the
                            great Lincoln who participated in one scene, performed his part, and
                            thereupon disappeared from the stage. A clumsy artist would have dwelt
                            upon Lincoln, hinting at his future greatness and reluctantly dismissing
                            him; Dr. Eggleston introduces the incident (which is based on fact) with
                            an inadvertence that enhances its interest and increases its
                            suggestiveness. The dialect in this tale is much more critical than that
                            in any other novel of Dr. Eggleston's Western series. In his
                            earlier stories, written before the scientific study of American
                            folk-speech had been undertaken, the dialect is more general. Dr.
                            Eggleston's other works of fiction are: "Mr.
                            Blake's Walking Stick" (1869); "Book of Queer
                            Stories" (1870); "The Schoolmaster's Stories
                            for Boys and  Girls" (1874);
                            "Queer Stories for Boys and Girls" (1884);
                            "The Faith Doctor" (1891); "Duffels"
                            (1893). "The Faith Doctor" is a novel of New York, in
                            which the prevailing interest in what Dr. Eggleston called
                            "aerial therapeutics" supplies the motive.
                            "Duffels" is a collection of short stories written at
                            intervals throughout his literary career, with scenes laid in many parts
                            of the country, and illustrating happily the versatility and the
                            story-telling gift of the author.
                        Dr. Eggleston began in 1880 researches for a history of life in the
                            United States. He pursued his studies abroad, as well as in American
                            libraries, and assembled at his summer home on Lake George a large
                            collection of Americana. The only published result of these studies thus
                            far is "The Beginners of a Nation" (1896), the most
                            serious, searching, and exhaustive essay in Kultur-Geschichte yet presented by an American. The mere
                            politics of our history and its military incidents had long received the
                            attention of students, to the exclusion of the social and domestic. A
                            work such as Dr. Eggleston has undertaken is vastly  more difficult and therefore more important, for it
                            requires original research in the strictest sense. His other historical
                            works so far completed are: "A History of the United States and
                            its People for the Use of Schools" (1888); "The
                            Household History of the United States and its People" (1888);
                            and "A First Book in American History" (1889).
                        Dr. Eggleston's life makes in itself a delightful story of
                            aspiration and achievement. Many Americans have experienced hardship and
                            discouragement, but few have profited so richly as this novelist and
                            historian by every whim of fortune. Ill health has menaced him all his
                            days, but physical infirmity has never conquered his ambition or
                            diminished his mental vitality. There is about him an exuberance of
                            spirits that is not only a distinguishing personal trait, but a quality
                            of all his stories. And if ill health in his youth and young manhood
                            interrupted the orderly course of education, it also brought him
                            opportunities for acquiring a broad knowledge of American provincial
                            life that no school could have given him. When Dr. Eggleston began to
                            write there was, outside  of New England,
                            little local literature, and the value of dialect in interpretative
                            fiction was only beginning to be understood. Cable, Page, Harris,
                            Murfree, "Octave Thanet," were names unknown to the
                            catalogues when "The Hoosier Schoolmaster" appeared.
                            Mark Twain and Bret Harte were well embarked upon their careers; but the
                            one was a humorist and the other a romanticist, and neither had
                            undertaken to reproduce local speech accurately. Dr. Eggleston was the
                            pioneer provincial realist; and if, as he says, the great American novel
                            is being written in sections, he certainly contributed early chapters,
                            and indicated the lines to be followed.
                        His marriage, in 1891, to Frances E. Goode, a granddaughter of his
                            father's cousin, Judge Miles Cary Eggleston, renewed ties with
                            Indiana that had never been wholly broken during long years of absence.
                            He has often been a visitor to Madison, which was Mrs.
                            Eggleston's home, and he spent the winter of 1899 in that
                            beautiful and tranquil town.
                    
                    
                    
                        II. James Whitcomb Riley
                        
                        Crabbe and Burns are Mr. Riley's forefathers in literature.
                            Crabbe was the pioneer in what may be called the realism of poetry; it
                            was he who rejected the romantic pastoralism that had so long peopled
                            the British fields with nymphs and shepherds, and introduced the crude
                            but actual country folk of England. The humor, the bold democracy, and
                            the social sophistication that he lacked were supplied in his own day by
                            Burns, and Burns had, too, the singing instinct and the bolder art of
                            which there are no traces in Crabbe. Something of Crabbe's
                            realism and Burns's humor and philosophy are agreeably combined
                            in Mr. Riley. His first successes were achieved in the portrayal of the
                            Indiana country and village folk in dialect. He has rarely seen fit to
                            vary his subject, and he has been faithful to the environment from which
                            he derived his inspiration. James Whitcomb Riley is an interesting
                            instanceperhaps, after Whittier, the most striking in our literature of
                            a natural poet, taking his texts from the familiar scenes and  incidents of his own daily walks, and
                            owing little or nothing to the schools. He was born at Greenfield, the
                            seat of Hancock County, in 1849. His father, Reuben A. Riley, was a
                            native of Pennsylvania, of Dutch antecedents, though there is a
                            tradition of Irish ancestry in the family. He was a lawyer, who enjoyed
                            a wide reputation as an advocate, and was long reckoned among the most
                            effective political speakers in Indiana. He was a discriminating reader
                            and an occasional writer of both prose and verse. The poet's
                            mother was a Marine, of a family in which an aptness for rhyming was
                            characteristic. The Greenfield schools have always been excellent, and
                            young Riley was fortunate in having for his teacher Lee O. Harris,
                            himself a poet, who tried to adapt the curriculum of the Hancock County
                            schools to the needs of an unusual pupil in whom imagination
                            predominated to the exclusion of mathematics.
                        Learning is, as Higginson has aptly condensed it, not accumulation, but
                            assimilation; and "the Hoosier poet" was born one of
                            those fortunate men to whom schools are a mere incident  of education, but who walk through the
                            world with their eyes open, adding daily to their stock of knowledge.
                            Bagehot enlarges on this trait as he discovers it in Shakespeare,
                            "throughout all whose writings," he says,
                            "you see an amazing sympathy with common people." The
                            common people caught and held the attention of Mr. Riley, and as the
                            annalist of their simple lives he established himself firmly in public
                            affection. The half a dozen colleges within a radius of fifty miles of
                            his home did not attract him; he was bred to no business, but followed
                            in a tentative way occupations that brought him into contact with
                            people. He began to write because he felt the impulse, and not because
                            he breathed a literary atmosphere or looked forward to a literary
                            career. His imagination needed some outlet, and he made verses just as
                            he drew pictures or acquired a knack at playing the guitar, taking one
                            talent about as seriously as the other. A Western county seat, with its
                            daily advent of pilgrims from the farms, affords an entertaining
                            panorama for a bright boy, and Mr. Riley began in his youth that careful
                            observation of  the Indiana country folk,
                            their ways and their speech, that was later to afford him a seemingly
                            inexhaustible supply of material.
                        He had in his younger days something of Artemus Ward's fondness
                            for a hoax, and he wrote "Leonaine," in imitation of
                            Poe's manner, with so marked success that several critics of
                            discernment received the poem, and the story of its discovery in an old
                            school reader, in good faith. In the experimental period of his career
                            he read widely and to good purpose, learning the mechanics of prosody
                            from the best models. His ear was naturally good, and he was distinctly
                            original in his ideas of form. He delighted in the manipulation of words
                            into odd and surprising combinations, and though the results were not
                            always dignified, they were, nevertheless, curious and amusing, and
                            brought him a degree of local fame. Mr. Riley's contributions
                            were wholly to newspapers through many years, during which the more
                            deliberate periodicals would have none of him. He printed poems in the
                                Herald, an Indianapolis weekly paper, in which the
                            poems of Edith M. Thomas and others who have since  gained a literary reputation first saw the light; and
                            having attracted the attention of E. B. Martindale, the owner of the
                            Indianapolis Journal, he was regularly employed on
                            that paper, between 1877 and 1885, printing many of his best pieces
                            there. He had the pleasure of seeing his verses widely copied at that
                            period, when the newspaper press was his only medium of communication,
                            and before he had printed a volume. His first marked recognition
                            followed the publication in the Journal of a series of
                            poems signed "Benj. F. Johnson, of Boone," which not
                            only awakened wide interest, but gave direction to a talent that had
                            theretofore been without definite aim. He encouraged the idea that the
                            poems were really the work of a countryman, and prefaced them with
                            letters in prose to add to their air of authenticity, much as Lowell
                            introduced the "Biglow Papers." This series included
                            "Thoughts fer the Discuraged Farmer," "When
                            the Frost is on the Punkin," and "To My Old Friend,
                            William Leachman," which were winningly unaffected and simple,
                            bearing out capitally the impression of a bucolic poet celebrating his
                            own joys  and sorrows. The charm of the
                            "Benj. F. Johnson" series lay in their perfect
                            suggestion of a whimsical, lovable character, and wherever Mr. Riley
                            follows the method employed first in those pieces, he never fails of his
                            effect.
                        It should be remembered, in passing from Riley masquerading as
                            "Benj. F. Johnson" to Riley undisguised, that two
                            kinds of dialect are represented. The Boone County poet's
                            contributions are printed as the old farmer is supposed to have written
                            them, not as reported by a critical listener. There is a difference
                            between the attempt of an illiterate man to express his own ideas on
                            paper, and a transcript of his utterances set down by one trained to the
                            businessthe vernacular as observed and recorded by a conscious artist.
                            In every community there is a local humorist, a sayer of quaint things,
                            whose oddities of speech gain wide acceptance and circulation, and Mr.
                            Riley is his discoverer in Indiana. Lowell, with his own New England
                            particularly in mind, said that "almost every county has some
                            good diesinker in phrase, whose mintage passes into the currency of the
                            whole neighborhood"; and  this
                            may be applied generally to the South and West. Mr. Riley writes always
                            with his eye on a character; and those who question his dialect do not
                            understand that there is ever present in his mind a real individual. The
                            feeling and the incident are not peculiar to the type; they usually lie
                            within the range of universal experience; but the expression, the
                            manner, the figure of the subject, are suggested in the poem, not by
                            speech alone, but by the lilt of the line and the form of the stanza.
                            Mr. Riley is more interested in odd characters, possessing marked
                            eccentricities, than in the common, normal type of the farm or the
                            country town, and the dialect that he employs often departs from the
                            usual vocabulary of the illiterate in the field he studies, and follows
                            lines of individual idiosynerasy. The shrewdly humorous farmer who is a
                            whimsical philosopher and rude moralist delights him. This character
                            appears frequently in his poems, often mourning for the old times, now
                            delighting in "noon-time an' June-time, down around
                            the river"; and again expressing contentment with his own lot,
                            averring that "they's nothin'  much patheticker in just a-bein'
                            rich." To these characters he gives a dialect that is fuller
                            than the usual rural speech: ministratin'
                            (ministering), resignated (resigned), artificialer (more artificial), competenter
                            (more competent), tractabler (more tractable), and familiously (familiarly), not being properly in the
                            Hoosier lingua rustica, but easily conceivable as
                            possible deviations. Mr. Riley has been criticised for imputing to his
                            characters such phrases as "when the army broke out"
                            and "durin' the army," referring to the Civil
                            War, and many careful observers declare that he could never have heard
                            these phrases; but very likely he has heard them from the eccentric
                            countrymen for whom he has so strong an affinity; or he may have coined
                            them outright as essential to the interpretation of such characters. In
                            the main, however, he may be followed safely as an accurate guide in the
                            speech of the Southeastern element of the population, and his
                            questionable usages and inconsistencies are few and slight, as the
                            phrase "don't you know," which does not
                            always ring true, or "again" and
                            "agin," used interchangeably  and evidently as the rhyme may hint. The abrupt beginning
                            of a sentence, frequently noticed in Mr. Riley's dialect
                            verses, is natural. The illiterate often experience difficulty in
                            opening a conversation, expressing only a fragment, to which an
                            interlocutor must prefix for himself the unspoken phrases. There is no
                            imposition in Mr. Riley's dialect, for his amplifications of it
                            are always for the purpose of aiding in the suggestion of a character as
                            he conceives it; he does not pretend that he portrays in such instances
                            a type found a every cross-roads. "Doc Sifers" and
                            "The Raggedy Man" are not peculiar to Indiana, but
                            have their respective counterparts in such characters as Mark
                            Twain's "Pudd'n-head Wilson" and the
                            wayside tramp, who has lately been a feature of farce comedy rather than
                            of our social economy. "Fessler's Bees,"
                            "Nothin' to say," "Down to the
                            Capital," "A Liz-town Humorist," and
                            "Squire Hawkins's Story" show Mr. Riley at
                            his happiest as a delineator of the rural type. In these sketches he
                            gives in brief compass the effect of little dramas, now humorous, now
                                 touched with simple and natural
                            pathos, and showing a nice appreciation of the color of language which
                            is quite as essential in dialect as in pure English. But it matters
                            little that the dramatis person change, or that the
                            literary method varies; the same kindliness, the same blending of humor
                            and pathos, and the same background of "green fields and
                            running brooks" characterize all. "The crude man
                            is," the poet believes, "generally moral,"
                            and the Riley Hoosier is intuitively religious, and is distinguished by
                            his rectitude and sense of justice.
                        Mr. Riley made his work effective through the possession of a sound
                            instinct for appraising his material, combined with a good sense of
                            proportion. His touch grew steadily firmer, and he became more
                            fastidious as the public made greater demands upon him; for while his
                            poems in dialect gained him a hearing, he strove earnestly for
                            excellence in the use of literary English. He has written many poems of
                            sentiment gracefully and musically, and with no suggestion of dialect.
                            Abundant instances of his felicity in the strain of retrospect  and musing might be cited. The same
                            chords have been struck time and time again; but they take new life when
                            he touches them, as in "The All-Golden":
                        
                            "I catch my breath, as children do
                            In woodland swings when life is new,
                            And all the blood is warm as wine
                            And tingles with a tang divine. . . .
                            O gracious dream, and gracious time,
                            And gracious theme, and gracious rhyme
                            When buds of Spring begin to blow
                            In blossoms that we used to know,
                            And lure us back along the ways
                            Of time's all-golden yesterdays!"
                        
                        It is not the farmer alone whose simple virtues appeal to him; but rugged
                            manhood anywhere commands his tribute, and he has hardly written a more
                            touching lyric than "Away," whose subject was an
                            Indiana soldier:
                        
                            "I cannot say, and I will not say
                            That he is dead He is just away!"
                        
                        He has his own manner of expressing an idea, and this individuality is so
                            marked that it might lead to the belief that he had little acquaintance
                            with the classic English writers. But his series of imitations,
                            including the prose of Scott and Dickens and  the characteristic poems of Tennyson and Longfellow, are
                            certainly the work of one who reads to good purpose and has a feeling
                            for style. When he writes naturally there is no trace of bookishness in
                            his work; he rarely or never invokes the mythologies, though it has
                            sometimes pleased him to imagine Pan piping in Hoosier orchards. He is
                            read and quoted by many who are not habitual readers of poetrywho would
                            consider it a sign of weakness to be caught in the act of reading poems
                            of any kind, but who tolerate sentiment in him because he makes it
                            perfectly natural and surrounds it with a familiar atmosphere of
                            reality. The average man must be trapped into any display of emotion,
                            and Mr. Riley spreads for him many nets from which there is no escape,
                            as in "Nothin' to say, my daughter," where
                            the subject is the loneliness and isolation of the father whose daughter
                            is about to marry, and who faces the situation clumsily, in the manner
                            of all fathers, rich or poor. The remembrance of the dead wife and
                            mother adds to the pathos here. The old man turns naturally to the
                            thought of her:
                        
                        "You don't rickollect her, I reckon? No; you
                            wasn't a year old then!
                        And now yerhow old air you? W'y, child, not
                                'twenty'! When?
                        And yer nex' birthday's in Aprile? and you want to git
                            married that day?
                        I wisht yer mother was livin'!but I hain't got
                            nothin' to say!
                        Twenty year! and as good a gyrl as parent ever found!
                        There's a straw ketched onto yer dress thereI'll bresh
                            it offturn round.
                        (Her mother was jest twenty when us two run away.)
                        Nothin' to say, my daughter! Nothin' at all to
                            say!"
                        The drolleries of childhood have furnished Mr. Riley subjects for some of
                            his most original and popular verses. Here, again, he does not accept
                            the conventional children of literature, whom he calls "the
                            refined children, the very proper children the studiously thoughtful,
                            poetic children"; but he seeks "the rough-and-tumble
                            little fellows 'in hodden gray,' with frowzly heads,
                            begrimed but laughing faces, and such awful vulgarities of naturalness,
                            and crimes of simplicity, and brazen faith and trust, and love of life
                            and everybody in it!" It is in this spirit that he presents now
                            the nave, now the perversely erring, and 
                            again the eerie and elfish child. He is a master of those enchantments
                            of childhood that transfigure and illumine and create a world of the
                            imagination for the young that is undiscoverable save to the elect few.
                            He does not write patronizingly to his audience; but listens, as one
                            should listen in the realm of childhood, with serious attention, and
                            then becomes an amanuensis, transcribing the children's legends
                            and guesses at the riddle of existence in their own language.
                            "The Raggedy Man" is not a romantic figure; he is the
                            shabby chore-man of the well-to-do folk in the country town, and the
                            friend and oracle of small boys. His mind is filled with rare lore, he
                        
                            "Knows 'bout Giunts, an' Griffuns
                                an' Elves
                            An' the Squidgicum-Squees 'at swallers
                                therselves!"
                        
                        And he may be responsible, too, for "Little Orphant
                            Annie's" knowledge of the
                            "Gobbleuns," which Mr. Riley turned into the most
                            successful of all his juvenile pieces. He reproduces most vividly a
                            child's eager, breathless manner of speech, and the elisions
                            and variations that make the child-dialect. Interspersed  through "The Child
                            World," a long poem in rhymed couplets, are a number of droll
                            juvenile recitatives; but this poem has a much greater value than at
                            first appears. It presents an excellent picture of domestic life in a
                            western country town, and the town is Mr. Riley's own
                            Greenfield, on the National Road. This poem is a faithful chronicle,
                            lively and humorous, full of the local atmosphere, and never dull. The
                            descriptions of the characters are in Mr. Riley's happiest
                            vein: the father of the house, a lawyer and leading citizen; the patient
                            mother; the children with their various interests, leading up to
                            "Uncle Mart," the printer, who aspired to be an actor
                        
                            "He joyed in verse-quotations which he took
                            Out of the old 'Type Foundry Specimen
                                Book.'"
                        
                        The poem is written in free, colloquial English, broken by lapses into
                            the vernacular. It contains some of his best writing, and proves him to
                            possess a range and breadth of vision that are not denoted in his
                            lyrical pieces alone. "The Flying Islands of the Night, a
                            fantastic drama in verse," his only other effort of length, was
                            written earlier. It abounds in the curious  and capricious, but it lacks in simplicity and reserve qualities that
                            have steadily grown in him.
                        Humor is preeminent in Mr. Riley, and it suggests that of Dickens in its
                            kinship with pathos. It seems to be peculiar to the literature of lowly
                            life that there is heartache beneath much of its gayety, and tears are
                            almost inevitably associated with its laughter. Mr. Riley never
                            satirizes, never ridicules his creations; his attitude is always that of
                            the kindly and admiring advocate; and it is by enlisting the sympathy of
                            his readers, suggesting much to their feeling and imagination, and
                            awakening in them a response that aids and supplements his own work,
                            that Mr. Riley has won his way to the popular heart. The restraints of
                            fixed forms have not interfered with his adequate expression of pure
                            feeling. This is proved by the sonnet, "When She Comes Home
                            Again," which is one of the tenderest of his poems. In the day
                            that saw many of his contemporaries in the younger choir of poets
                            carving cherry stones of verse after French patterns he found old
                            English models sufficient, and  his own
                            whim supplied all the variety he needed. Heroic themes have not tempted
                            him; he has never attained sonority or power, and has never needed them;
                            but melody and sweetness and a singular gift of invention distinguish
                            him.
                        Many imitators have paid tribute to Mr. Riley's dialect verse,
                            for most can grow the flowers after the seed have been freely blown in
                            the market-place. Perhaps the best compliment that can be paid to Mr.
                            Riley's essential veracity is to compare the verse of those who
                            have made attempts similar to his own. He is, for example, a much better
                            artist than Will Carleton, who came before him, and whose "Farm
                            Ballads" are deficient in humor; and he possesses a breadth of
                            sympathy and a depth of sincerity that Eugene Field did not attain in
                            dialect verse, though Field's versatility and fecundity were
                            amazing. There is nowhere in Mr. Riley a trace of the coarse brutality
                            with which Mr. Hamlin Garland, for example, stamps the life of a region
                            lying farther west. There is no point of contact between Lowell and Mr.
                            Riley in their dialectic performances, as civic  matters do not interest the Indianian; and his view of the
                            Civil War becomes naturally that of the countryman who looks back with
                            wistful melancholy, not to the national danger and dread, but to the
                            neighborhood's glory and sorrow, as in "Good-by,
                            Jim." It might also be said that Mr. Riley has never put the
                            thoughts of statesmen into the mouths of countrymen, as Lowell did,
                            consistency being one of his qualities. There has sprung up in Mr.
                            Riley's time a choir of versifiers who are journalistic rather
                            than literary, and who write for the day, much as the reporters do. Mr.
                            Riley, more than any one else, has furnished the models for these, and
                            it would seem that verses could be multiplied interminably, or so long
                            as such refrains as "When father winds the clock" and
                            "The hymns that mother used to sing" can be found for
                            texts.
                        With the publication of the "Benj. F. Johnson" poems in
                            a paper-covered booklet, Mr. Riley's literary career began. The
                            intervening years have brought him continuous applause; his books of
                            verse have been sold widely in this country and in England, and that,
                            too, in "the  twilight of the
                            poets," with its contemporaneous oblivion for many who have
                            labored bravely in the paths of song. He early added to his reputation
                            as a writer that of a most successful reader of his own poems, and on
                            both sides of the Atlantic his work and his unique personality have won
                            for him the friendship of many distinguished literary men of the day. It
                            is to be said that the devotion of the people of his own State to their
                            poet, from first to last, has been marked by a cordiality and loyalty
                            that might well be the envy of any man in any field of endeavor. No
                            other Western poet has ever occupied a similar place; and the reciprocal
                            devotion, on the other hand, of the poet to his own people, is not less
                            noteworthy or admirable. He has always resented the suggestion that he
                            should leave Indiana for Boston or New York, where he might be more in
                            touch with the makers of books; and in recent years he purchased the old
                            family residence at Greenfield, to which he returns frequently for rest
                            and inspiration. For fifteen years he has been the best-known figure in
                            Indianapolis, studying with tireless attention the faces in the streets,
                                 nervously ranging the book-stores,
                            and often sitting down to write a poem at the desk of some absentee in
                            the Journal office. His frequent reading and lecturing
                            tours have been miserable experiences for him, as he is utterly without
                            the instinct of locality, and has timidly sat in the hotels of strange
                            towns for many hours for lack of the courage requisite for exploration.
                            Precision and correctness have distinguished him in certain ways, being
                            marked, for example, in matters of dress and in his handwriting; his
                            manuscripts are flawlessly correct, and the slouch and negligence of the
                            traditional poet are not, observed in him.
                        His long list of books includes "Afterwhiles" (1887);
                            "Pipes of Pan at Zekesbury" (1888);
                            "Old-fashioned Roses" (1889); "Rhymes of
                            Childhood" (1891); and "Poems Here at Home"
                            (1897); and he has known the luxury of a cosmopolitan edition of his
                            writings in a series that embraced the definitive Stevenson. Fame came
                            to Mr. Riley when he was still young, and it is only a fair assumption
                            that he has not exhausted his field, but that he will grow  more and more secure in it. Serious work
                            it has not always been possible for him to do, for his audience learned
                            to expect humor in all his verses, and refused to be disappointed; but
                            his ambition lies beyond humorous dialect, though he finds no fault with
                            the public preference. All that he writes is welcome, for he is a
                            preacher of sound optimism and a sincere believer in the final good that
                            comes to all.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    CRAWFORDSVILLE
                    THERE is an ineffable charm about an old town that has
                        outlived its ambition to be a great city, and Crawfordsville is a fine type
                        of such a place. The region was settled in 1823, and the Montgomery County
                        people, both farmers and townfolk, have long been counted among the
                        sturdiest and most intelligent in the State. A cultivated society has always
                        existed at Crawfordsville, and as the seat of Wabash College it acquired in
                        its youth an academic air that it has never shaken off. The town has been
                        called "The Hoosier Athens," by envious and less favored
                        neighbors. The analogy is not wholly fortunate, as there are neither
                        porticoes nor statues on the college campus, and no Cimon found occupation
                        here, as at the elder Athens, in tree-planting. Nature had anticipated the
                        need of "groves of academe," and the trees about the
                        college and through  the town are truly of the
                        forest primeval, giving the agreeable impression of a rus in
                            urbe. Crawfordsville has often sent young men elsewhere to find
                        occupatio; but its commercial attractions have been slight, its educational
                        advantages have been proportionately great, and Wabash is able to point to a
                        long list of successful alumni. The spirit of change has rarely invaded the
                        college, and men are now holding chairs who have grown old in its service.
                        Wabash has been content to do honest college work and has never made false
                        pretensions as to its ability to do more. "Mere
                        literature," as Bagehot fondly called it, has not been disregarded,
                        and in no college of ampler endowment have the classics been taught more
                        sympathetically or intelligently. It is one of the few colleges remaining at
                        the West which close their doors to women, although importunate hands have
                        long besought the wicket.
                    The honor and dignity of learning have come to have a real meaning here, not
                        only to those who seek instruction at the college, but to the people of the
                        town as well. Wabash may not have directly influenced those who  made Crawfordsville a seat of authorship, but
                        certainly a fortunate chance led makers of books to seek the congenial
                        atmosphere created by the college. In such a place one may not grow rich,
                        but one may dwell contented; and while coarser commerce has not flourished
                        greatly, much valuable manuscript has freighted the cast-bound mails from
                        Crawfordsville. Authorship and scholarship alone have not engaged the
                        inhabitants. Joseph E. McDonald, later a senator in Congress, once lived
                        here, as did also John M. Butler, who became McDonald's law partner
                        at Indianapolis and one of the ablest men of the Western bar.
                        Butler's son, John Maurice Butler, was born at Crawfordsville, and
                        his untimely death (1896) removed the man of most charming personality, and
                        the keenest wit of his generation at the capital. Henry Beebee Carrington
                        had identified himself with Indiana's participation in the War of
                        the Rebellion before he became (18701873) professor of military science at
                        Wabash. His stay at Crawfordsville was brief, but the inhabitants prefer to
                        believe that as he once breathed the Athenian 
                        air they are entitled to share with Connecticut, his native State and later
                        home, in the credit for his writings. The Whitlocks and the Elstons were
                        among the first settlers, and were prominent in all the earlier labors of
                        the community. Henry S. Lane, General Wallace's brother-in-law, was
                        a senator in Congress (18601867), and lived and died here.
                    
                        I. General Lew Wallace
                        
                        General Lew Wallace, whose varied achievements have contributed so
                            largely to the town's fame, was not born at Crawfordsville, but
                            at Brookville, in Franklin County, April 10, 1827. His father, David
                            Wallace, had resigned from the regular army soon after his graduation
                            from West Point in 1821. He studied law at Brookville, and soon began an
                            interesting public career. He was one of the political giants of the
                            State in his day, holding many offices and positions of honor. His first
                            wife, General Wallace's mother, was the daughter of John Test,
                            of a family long prominent in the State. General Wallace was an
                            adventurous boy, impatient of all restraint, and fond of wandering, and
                            he therefore received  little systematic
                            education; but his father owned an excellent library, and, as has
                            happened with other boys who have refused to submit to the schoolmaster,
                            he found his own way to the book shelves. He was for a time a student at
                            Hoshour's school at Centerville; and he once ran away to join
                            an older brother at Wabash; but he was either unwilling or unable to
                            break his nomadic habits, and continued to roam the woods until, at
                            sixteen, his school bills were audited for the last time. He was beset
                            by several ambitions; literature, art, and a military career invited
                            him. He had some skill at sketching, and painted a portrait of Black
                            Hawk, the Indian chief, drawing on the family medicine chest for castor
                            oil to use in mixing his colors. He also completed a novel,
                            "The Man at Arms: A Tale of the Tenth Century," of
                            which he remembers little; but Sulgrove in one of his chronicles darkly
                            hints that it was of the school of G. P. R. James. Robert Duncan, clerk
                            of Marion County, in which Indianapolis is situated, employed him as
                            copyist, and he varied this prosaic occupation by reading law in his
                            father's office. The Mexican War now broke upon the country,
                                 and as Lewisthe second syllable
                            disappeared during the Civil Warhad painted a picture and written a
                            romance, he now turned naturally to his third ambition. He organized a
                            company and went south with the First Indiana Infantry. The regiment saw
                            little of the war, but the campaign and his personal experience in
                            military matters confirmed young Wallace's purpose to write a
                            novel of Mexico, for which, by a kind of prevision and the inspiration
                            of Prescott, he had already made tentative sketches. On his return to
                            Indiana he again took up the law, and practised at Covington until 1852,
                            when he removed to Crawfordsville, which has ever since been his home.
                            He presently organized a military company, known as the
                            "Montgomery Guards," and equipped it with the Zouave
                            uniform. This furnished an outlet for his ceaseless energy, and also for
                            his pocket-book, as the State contributed nothing to the
                            company's support. He brought it to a high standard of
                            efficiency, and at the outbreak of the Civil War it was one of the
                            best-drilled military organizations in the country. Governor Morton
                            appointed Mr. Wallace adjutant-general of the  State at the first sign of hostilities, but he served in
                            this capacity for a short time only, and organized the Eleventh Indiana
                            Regiment, with his original Crawfordsville company as nucleus, and began
                            an active and brilliant career in the army. Almost immediately his
                            regiment distinguished itself in West Virginia. He was a
                            brigadier-general before the capture of Fort Henry, and was made
                            major-general for gallantry at Donelson. A year after Shiloh, a friend
                            called General Wallace's attention to the official reports of
                            that engagement, and he learned for the first time that he had been
                            censured for his conduct on the first day of the battle. He asked at
                            once for a court of inquiry, which was denied, and a long controversy
                            followed. This died out for a time, but was renewed when Grant began the
                            serial publication of his memoirs. It was always maintained by General
                            Wallace's friends that Grant was unjust to Wallace; that the
                            Indiana officer faithfully obeyed orders actually given him; and
                            certainly no one who ever had any acquaintance with General Wallace
                            would believe him capable of intentionally taking a circuitous  route to a battle-field. The effective
                            service of his command on the second day of the battle should forever
                            have stilled criticism; as it was, Grant wrote in his memoirsthe last
                            words that ever came from his pena footnote to his account of Pittsburg
                            Landing that fairly acquitted General Wallace of all blame. Much has
                            been written, by participants and others, touching the incident, and it
                            has been made the subject of an exhaustive study by George F.
                                McGinnis.1 While stationed at Baltimore, in 1864, General
                            Wallace prevented a Confederate descent upon Washington by intercepting
                            Jubal Early at Monocacy. He threw 6,000 men against. Early's
                            force of 28,000, suffering defeat, but detaining the enemy until Grant
                            could send reenforcements from Virginia. This was one of the most
                            important of all his military services, and he received for it
                            Grant's cordial praise. General Wallace was a member of the
                            court that tried the conspirators implicated in the assassination of
                            Lincoln; and he was president of the commission that tried and convicted
                            Captain Henry Wirz, commandant of Andersonville Prison.
                                1
                                "War Papers," Indiana Commandery, Loyal Legion,
                                    1898.
                            
                        
                        
                        When General Wallace returned to Crawfordsville at the close of the war
                            he was thirty-eight; he had served creditably in one war and with
                            enviable distinction in a second, and he turned to the arts of peace
                            from a military experience that had given him wide reputation and
                            acquaintance among public men of the Civil War period. He began
                            industriously to reestablish himself in his law practice, and varied his
                            occupation with study and literary work. "The Man at
                            Arms," his youthful attempt at "A Tale of the Tenth
                            Century," had disappeared during his absence in Mexico; but the
                            ambition to write a romance of the invasion of Cortez, and his
                            manuscript beginnings of it, had survived two wars, and he now set about
                            finishing the story. He had at this time no definite ambition to become
                            an author, and he gave his evenings to the writing of "The Fair
                            God" with little idea of ever publishing it. After its
                            completion he carried it East with him on a business journey. Whitelaw
                            Reid gave him an introduction to a Boston publisher, and the result was
                            the appearance of the tale in 1873. He had spent in all about twelve
                            years  on the book, part having been
                            written, as already stated, in his boyhood; and the author's
                            faithfulness to his early purpose through many years that had brought
                            new duties and obligations is in keeping with his whole character.
                        The scenes of "The Fair God" were unfamiliar to the
                            novel reader, and the very names in the book were somewhat
                            disconcerting; but the tale was received in the beginning with a fair
                            degree of interest, and it has ever since enjoyed a steady sale. The
                            subsequent success of "Ben Hur" directed attention
                            anew to General Wallace's earlier tale, but the romance was
                            something more than an amateur effort, and time has not diminished its
                            entertaining qualities. As a picture of Aztecan civilization it is
                            accurate, and the incidents are related in an orderly and natural manner
                            that holds the attention. The devotion of the people to their religion
                            is impressive; but the tale is essentially a military romance. The
                            battle scenes following the appearance of Cortez and his Spaniards are
                            described with an animation and an amplitude that impart to the reader
                            the sense of beholding a series of great spectacles. The book is  rich in those surprises which it is the
                            business of the romancer to produce; and the chapters descriptive of the
                            battle towers (mantas) which were among the
                            European's resources, and of the retreat of the invaders, are
                            noisy with the clang of battle. The prophecies of the mystic priest
                            Mualox, who sees through the eyes of a child the coming of the
                            Spaniards, are interesting; and curiously enough they had their origin
                            in an incident of General Wallace's own experience in Indiana,
                            showing how the imagination may play upon the commonplace. When he lived
                            at Covington, he formed the acquaintance of a tailor who was deeply
                            interested in the occult sciences, and who once invited General Wallace
                            to his shop to witness manifestations of his powers. The tailor placed
                            his apprentice under a kind of hypnotic influence, and told General
                            Wallace to take the boy's hand and to follow in his own mind
                            some route with whose details he was familiar. General Wallace obeyed,
                            mentally reviewing a highway that led to the house of a farmer client.
                            The boy's lips moved, and he coherently described the road, and
                            presently the farmhouse,  just as General
                            Wallace saw them; then he abruptly ceased to follow the
                            leader's train of thought. He said that it was night; that some
                            one came out of the house with a light, walked about inspecting the
                            barnyard, and then returned to the house. The boy had now become
                            exhausted; the tailor revived him, and General Wallace went on to his
                            home. A few days later, when the countryman whose farm had figured in
                            the incident came to town, General Wallace asked him if he had been at
                            home at the hour mentioned; he replied that he had been at home and
                            asleep. Further questioning elicited the statement that at about the
                            time of the experiment at the tailor shop he had been aroused by noises
                            in the barnyard, and that, fearing some marauder was after his fowls, he
                            had taken a light and gone out to see that all was secure.
                        The friendly reception of "The Fair God" did not awaken
                            any unusual interest in General Wallace as a writer. He continued at
                            Crawfordsville the life of a lawyer of polite tastes, keenly interested
                            in politics. "The Fair God" out of the way, he began
                            almost immediately  to cast about for some
                            new literary employment. In about 1874 it occurred to him to write a
                            novelette, whose principal incident should be the meeting of the Wise
                            Men in the Desert and the birth of Christ. The brief account in the
                            Gospels had long appealed to his imagination, and he wrote what is now
                            the first book of "Ben Hur," intending to offer it to
                            some magazine for publication as a sketch, with illustrations. While the
                            manuscript still lay in his desk, he met on a railway journey an old
                            friend, Colonel Robert G. Ingersoll, and in the course of conversation
                            the famous sceptic touched on the subject of Christianity. General
                            Wallace had always been indifferent in religious matters, neither
                            denying nor affirming; but Ingersoll's downright iconoclasm
                            alarmed him. He determined to investigate the subject and form his own
                            conclusions; and he began researches and studies which continued through
                            five years. When he had concluded, he fully accepted the tenets of
                            Christian faith, and he had amplified his sketch of the Wise Men into
                            the novel "Ben Hur." Continuous labor had not been
                            possible during the writing of this tale: he had been busy with  everyday affairs; politics received a
                            share of his attention; and he became, in 1878, by appointment of
                            President Hayes, governor of New Mexico Territory. He lived at Santa Fe
                            for three years, and much of "Ben Hur" was written in
                            the governor's house there. General Wallace had never visited
                            Palestine when he wrote "Ben Hur," but there are
                            points of resemblance between the landscape of New Mexico and that of
                            the Holy Land, and these were of assistance. He procured a profile map
                            of Palestine, and was so attentive to topographical detail that later,
                            when he visited the scenes of his story in company with a recognized
                            authority in ancient history, every feature of the country as described
                            in the book was verified. An immense amount of labor is represented in
                            this novel. Many volumes were consulted in the search for antiquarian
                            lore, that it might lack nothing that would aid in conveying an accurate
                            impression of the period.
                        The book was capitally planned, striking episodes falling into place
                            naturally, and not too abundantly. The meeting of the Wise Men, the sea
                            fight, and the chariot race are dramatic 
                            to a degree; but the sombre picture of the crucifixion is unmarred by
                            excess. The reverence which characterizes every mention of the Saviour
                            is the author's happiest achievement in the story. The subject
                            is difficult, but is handled with admirable taste and refinement.
                            However, the book does not depend for continued attention on its
                            interest as a religious novel; it is equally noteworthy for its
                            comprehensive grasp of the politics of the period, its picture of the
                            various peoples that flowed through the streets of Jerusalem and
                            Antioch, and the suggestion of a romantic commerce whose exploits lay in
                            strange seas and beyond the deserts. Nothing in the book is accomplished
                            more skilfully than the slow extinction of the idea of the coming of a
                            great ruler of the world, to rebuild the throne of Solomon, and the
                            gradual acceptance of the spiritual significance of Christ's
                            advent; and it may be taken, in connection with the history of the
                            novel, as a revelation of the growth in the author's own mind
                            of a belief in the divine Saviour. Historical novels, particularly those
                            that look to antiquity for subjects, follow necessarily certain
                            traditions, and these are observed 
                            carefully by General Wallace. Scott, more than any other, helped him,
                            and "Ivanhoe," in particular, was his model. The
                            writing in "Ben Hur" is uniformly good, and the
                            dialogue in archaic speech is well sustained. General Wallace wrote out
                            of an ample vocabulary enriched by the constant reading of Oriental
                            narrative, and in his descriptions the epithets are always apposite. The
                            success of "Ben Hur" was not immediate. It sold slowly
                            for several years, but it gained steadily in popularity and continues in
                            favor with the booksellers. It has been translated into all the European
                            languages, into Arabic and Japanese, and it is accessible to the blind
                            in raised-letter. The sale of the copyright edition in America (1900)
                            exceeds 1,200,000, which is probably greater than that of
                            "Uncle Tom's Cabin." Many playwrights and
                            actors proposed to General Wallace from time to time the dramatization
                            of "Ben Hur," but he feared that the spirit of
                            reverence, which he had so consistently communicated to the novel, would
                            be lost in any play founded upon its incidents. He declined all offers
                            until, in 1899, a plan was submitted which met his approval, and in the
                            fall  of that year the play was given its
                            first presentation at New York.
                        When President Garfield appointed General Wallace minister to Turkey, he
                            wrote across his commission "Ben Hur." General Wallace
                            called at the White House, just before leaving for his post, to pay his
                            respects to the President, and Garfield said to him: "I expect
                            another book from you. Your official duties will not be so onerous that
                            you cannot write it. Make the scene Constantinople." The
                            opportunity thus presented for further literary work was a consideration
                            in accepting the post. The Turkish occupation of Constantinople is an
                            incident of great historical importance, and in his search for material
                            for a new romance, General Wallace determined to write a tale that
                            should present a picture of the fierce struggle between Christian and
                            Moslem. His studies at Constantinople led to the writing of
                            "The Prince of India." The Prince is "The
                            Wandering Jew." He appears as a man of mysterious gifts, who
                            wields great wealth and power. He had discovered what he believes to be
                            common ground upon which all the spiritually minded  may meet, irrespective of religion. He appears before the
                            Emperor Constantine and presents his plan for a universal religious
                            union, but he horrifies the theologians, and finding the Christians
                            unsympathetic, he turns to Mohammed, and bestows upon him the sword of
                            Solomon, the sign of conquest, which he had found in the tomb of Hiram,
                            King of Tyre. The tale has neither the interest of "Ben
                            Hur" nor the novelty and military ardor of "The Fair
                            God." The subject required deliberate treatment, and the hero,
                            who is a scholar and a mystic, naturally deals in word oftener than in
                            actions.
                        General Wallace's other writings are "The Boyhood of
                            Christ" (1889), and "The Wooing of Malkatoon: a
                            Turkish Tale, with Commodus, a Play" (1898), both in blank
                            verse.
                        There is nothing in General Wallace's literary career to
                            encourage hasty and careless workmanship. His methods have been, from
                            the beginning, those of a conscientious artist, who strives for
                            excellence and is capable of cheerfully casting aside the work of many
                            days if, by additional labor, he can gain better results. He  parleys with a sentence or debates with a
                            synonym with a caution that is akin to Oriental diplomacy. He has
                            probably never written even a social letter carelessly, and if his
                            correspondence were to be collected, it would prove to be of the same
                            quality as his best printed work. There has always been a dignity in his
                            ambitions. Military leadership came to him naturally, and when he took
                            up literature, it was in a serious way, with subjects that were new and
                            daring. By making every stroke count, and paying no heed to changing
                            literary fashions, he has, in the intervals of unusually varied and
                            exacting employments, cultivated the literary art with enviable success.
                        Heredity and environment explain nothing in General Wallace. He is an
                            estray from the Orient, whom Occidental conditions have influenced
                            little. This is proved by all his imaginative writing, by his military
                            tastes, by many qualities of his personality, and by his appearance and
                            bearing. He has never written of American life, and the attraction of
                            Mexico as a field for fiction lay in the splendor and remoteness of the
                            early civilization of the country, 
                            combined with the romance of its conquest by soldiers of Spain. In like
                            manner, "Ben Hur" and "The Prince of
                            India" are such subjects as would naturally appeal to him. His
                            fancy has delighted always in the thought of pageantry, conquest,
                            mystery, and mighty deeds; it has pleased him to contemplate the formal
                            social life of the old heroic times. The beginning of his friendship
                            with the Sultan illustrates a sympathy, native in him, with the Oriental
                            character. General Wallace had reached Constantinople after his
                            appointment as minister, but had not been formally received. On Friday,
                            the Moslem Sunday, he went with the multitude to see the Sultan go to
                            prayer. General Wallace was entitled, by act of Congress, to wear the
                            uniform of a major-general in the United States army, and he was clad in
                            all the regalia of the rank. Between the gate of the imperial park and
                            the Mosque which the Sultan attended was a small house, with a platform
                            in front of it, set apart to strangers, and there General Wallace viewed
                            the procession. The dark man in the rich uniform attracted the attention
                            of the Sultan as he passed, and from the Mosque  he sent Osman Pasha, the hero of Plevna, then marshal of
                            the palace, to learn the identity of the stranger. On finding that he
                            was the new American minister awaiting audience, the Sultan sent an
                            invitation to General Wallace to accompany him on his return to the
                            palace, an honor never before accorded to a minister not yet received. A
                            carriage was sent for the American, who returned in the brilliant
                            cortege next to the carriage of the Sultan. The reception at the palace
                            was particularly distinguished, and thereafter the relations between the
                            two were intimate and cordial. The Sultan often summoned the minister to
                            the palace, sometimes requesting interviews at the dead of night. All
                            their conversation was through an interpreter, as the Sultan knew no
                            English and General Wallace did not speak French.
                        There was early stamped upon General Wallace an air of authority that
                            went well with the military profession; but later years have softened
                            this into a courtliness and grace of manner wholly charming. The
                            Oriental strain in him has become more and more pronounced, suggesting
                            that the years spent in the study of 
                            Eastern history, and his actual contact with Oriental peoples, have
                            emphasized it.
                        Mrs. Wallace (born Susan Arnold Elston) is a native of Crawfordsville.
                            Her father was a pioneer of central Indiana. The homes of his
                            descendants are grouped in Elston Grove, one of the prettiest spots in
                            Crawfordsville. General and Mrs. Wallace were married in 1852, and she
                            is "the wife of my youth," to whom "Ben
                            Hur" was dedicated. He received so many consolatory letters
                            based on this inscription, which seemed to be misunderstood, that in
                            later editions he changed it, adding "who still abides with
                            me." Mrs. Wallace began writing at an early age, both prose and
                            verse. She has never collected her poems, though several of them, as
                            "The Patter of Little Feet," written years ago, are
                            frequently brought to the attention of a new audience by the newspapers.
                            She has printed one book of fiction, "Ginevra" (1887),
                            and three books of travel sketches, "The Storied Sea"
                            (1884); "The Land of the Pueblos" (1888); and
                            "The Repose in Egypt" (1888). Mrs. Wallace has a happy
                            manner of describing places and incidents, and the papers  in these volumes show the spontaneity and
                            ease of good letters, and are without the guide-book taint. They were
                            intended, as the author stated in the preface to "The Storied
                            Sea," for patient, gentle souls seeking rest "from
                            that weariness known in our dear native land as mental
                            culture." Mrs. Wallace shares her husband's liking for
                            Eastern subjects, and her Egyptian and Turkish papers, in particular,
                            are delightful reading.
                    
                    
                        II. Maurice Thompson
                        
                        No other Indianian has lived so faithfully as Maurice Thompson a life
                            devoted to literary ideals, and none of his contemporaries among writers
                            of the West and South has been more loyally devoted to pure belles-lettres than he. Abstract beauty has appealed to him
                            more strongly than to any other writer of the Indiana group, and he has
                            expressed it in his poems, through media suggested by his own
                            environment, with charm and grace. He is a native of Indiana, having
                            been born at Fairfield, near Brookville, September 9, 1844. His father
                            was of Scotch-Irish ancestry; his maternal grandfather  was of Dutch origin; and both lines were
                            represented in the Southwestern migration at the beginning of the
                            century. In Maurice's childhood his father, who was a Baptist
                            clergyman, made several changes of residence, all tending southward,
                            removing first to southeastern Missouri, then to Kentucky, and again
                            within a few years to the valley of the Coosawattee in northern Georgia.
                            Here the senior Thompson became a planter, and Maurice enjoyed
                            thereafter, until he reached manhood, a life in which the study of books
                            was ideally blended with the freedom of the country. He has always
                            expressed great obligations to his mother's influences during
                            these years; her literary tastes were sound, and she imparted to her
                            children the love of good books, overcoming by her own encouragement and
                            guidance the absence of schools in their neighborhood. Tutors were
                            procured for higher mathematics and the languages; but the chief impulse
                            to the study of the old literatures lay in the youth's own
                            taste and temperament. Like Lanier, Hayne, Esten Cooke, John B. Tabb,
                            and others who were to become  known in
                            literature, he entered the Confederate army (1862), and saw hard service
                            until the surrender. Even these years of soldier experience did not
                            interrupt wholly his studies, for he usually managed to carry with him
                            some book worth reading, the essays of De Quincey and Carlyle belonging
                            to this period. Mr. Thompson returned to his father's
                            plantation at the close of the war, and remained there for three years,
                            continuing his studies as before, but substituting hard manual labor for
                            the life of pleasant adventure by field and flood that had given him
                            from boyhood into early manhood an intimate acquaintance with wild
                            things. He now began, of necessity, to accommodate himself to the
                            changed conditions of the community and of his own family. He had
                            studied engineering, and he perfected himself in it, and read law.
                            Reconstruction moved forward slowly, and wishing to get as quickly as
                            possible into a region where his material prospects could be improved,
                            he went to Crawfordsville, without fixed purpose, and found employment
                            with a railway surveying party. He supported himself by engineering
                            until he felt justified in taking  up the
                            law, in which he was successful, and to which he was constant until the
                            increase of literary reputation and steady employment in more congenial
                            labor made it possible for him to abandon it. His marriage to a daughter
                            of John Lee, an influential citizen of the county, fixed him as a
                            resident of Crawfordsville, which has since remained his home. For a
                            number of years he was prominent in local politics. He sat once in the
                            State legislature, and he was appointed State geologist in 1885.
                        Mr. Thompson had written experimentally in boyhood, and after his removal
                            to Indiana he continued the cultivation of his gifts, and beginning
                            slowly, attained to an abundant production, in both prose and poetry,
                            that made him through many years the Western author whose name most
                            frequently occurred in the indices of the best magazines. During his
                            youth in the Cherokee country he had been initiated into the mysteries
                            of archery by a hermit who lived in the midst of a pine forest near his
                            home. Mr. Thompson and his brother, Will H. Thompson, were both
                            enthusiastic archers and hunters, and their adventures in the wilds of
                            Florida were full  of romantic interest.
                            The bow was with them a kind of protest against the shot-gun, and
                            assured a less murderous extirpation of game. Their own skill with the
                            primitive weapon was remarkable, and as a recurrence of interest in the
                            bow in this country is not imminent, they may be considered the last of
                            American archers. Proficiency in this sport and the acquaintance with
                            woodcraft to which it led were important influences in Mr.
                            Thompson's first literary work. In the seventies, a great
                            revival in archery swept the country, and this was wholly due to a
                            series of articles on archery and on hunting with the long bow which Mr.
                            Thompson printed in the periodicals. These papers were gathered into a
                            book (1878), and although he had published three years before a volume
                            of sketches called "Hoosier Mosaics," his writings on
                            this subject, with the attractive title "The Witchery of
                            Archery," gave him his first footing as an author. The long bow
                            has again fallen into disuse, but the freshness and zest of those
                            sketches have not passed away. However, the archer had found in his
                            woodlands more important material than he had yet  made use of; for while he was following Robin Hood, he was
                            also the servant of Theocritus and Meleager, and he wrote at this period
                            many lyrics that suggested, by their spirit at least, the Greek pastoral
                            poetry more than anything in English. They were published under the
                            descriptive title "Songs of Fair Weather" (1883), and
                            are included also in a larger volume of Mr. Thompson's verse,
                            "Poems" (1892). E. S. Nadal writes1 that he has
                            never known any scenery so classical as the glades which border the
                            forests of Ohio and Indiana. In fancy, he is able to people them with
                            figures of mythology, and in no other spots, he says, has his
                            imagination been equal to this task. It is pleasant to find this comment
                            running into a reference to Mr. Thompson: "When I was the
                            literary reviewer of a New York daily," says Mr. Nadal,
                            "I was always on the lookout for the verses of a young poet who
                            lived in this part of the world. I remember that one of his poems
                            related how that once when Diana was at her bath in some clear spring,
                            no doubt known to the poet, a sort of sublimated Hoosier of the  fancy, himself quite nude and classic,
                            passed near by. He quickly, however, ran away far through the green
                            thick groves of May, 
                                1
                                "Essays at Home and Elsewhere," p. 211.
                            
                        
                        "'A feard lest down the wind of Spring He'd
                            hear an arrow whispering.'"
                        There is a great deal of the Indiana landscape to be found through Mr.
                            Thompson's poems, though he often looks southward to the north
                            Georgia hills and to Florida. Servile descriptions he does not give, but
                            against backgrounds traced with great delicacy and beauty he throws
                            suddenly and for a moment only some fleeting spirit of the woodland.
                            There is in his language "the continual slight
                            novelty" which is indispensable in poetry that is to haunt and
                            taunt the memory. As an instance of his felicity a poem called
                            "Before Dawn" may be cited:
                        
                            "A keen, insistent hint of dawn
                            Fell from the mountain height;
                            A wan, uncertain gleam betrayed
                            The faltering of the night.'
                            "The emphasis of silence made
                            The fog above the brook
                            Intensely pale: the trees took on
                            A haunted, haggard look.
                            
                            "Such quiet came, expectancy
                            Filled all the earth and sky:
                            Time seemed to pause a little space;
                            I heard a dream go by!"
                        
                        Such subjects he always handles finely, leaving the thought in a spell of
                            mild wonder and awe, as if something beautiful had passed and vanished.
                            Similar effects were often possible with him in his younger days; and it
                            is a question whether the moods from which such work proceeds recur
                            after youth, the dream, has departed and taken that from the heart which
                            "never comes again." Those early pieces could not have
                            been written by an indoors man; there is a refreshing quality of the
                            open air in every line of them. The note is unusual, and is perhaps best
                            sounded rarely; lightness and deftness are necessary to him who would
                            evoke its entire purity and melody. In "The Death of the White
                            Heron," "A Flight Shot,"
                            "Diana," "The Fawn," and
                            "In the Haunts of Bass and Bream," he trusted his
                            fortunes to rhymed couplets of eight syllables, which are particularly
                            well adapted to his purposes. The last-named poem relates  with tantalizing deliberation the taking
                            of a bass; the life of the stream pending the capture is described in
                            musical, transitional passages to the refrain,
                        
                            "Bubble, bubble, flows the stream,
                            Like low music through a dream."
                        
                        He again employs couplets in one of the most appealing of all this
                            series, "In Exile," which is the prayer of an archer
                            of the new world that England, the mother of archers, will call him
                            home. Later Mr. Thompson essayed a number of poems in a flexible ode
                            form, showing a broadening of his powers and a widening of his personal
                            horizons. The flight in such pieces as "In Captivity"
                            and "Before Sunrise" is longer than in the earlier
                            poems. It is a pleasure to find a poet to whom America is so
                            satisfactory as a field that he dares to set up the mocking-bird against
                            the nightingale. Mr. Thompson makes the home-songster a medium for
                            communicating the spirit and significance of our democracy to our
                            friends overseas. The movement through all these poems is free and
                            vigorous, and the irregular lines please by the happy chance of  the rhymes. The pleasant winds of which
                            the poet writes so refreshingly creep often into his measures. Patriotic
                            subjects he touches with nobility and fervor; and he became the laureate
                            of reconstruction when he penned his ringing poem "To the
                            South," the conclusion of which must not be omitted here:
                        
                            "I am a Southerner;
                            I love the South; I dared for her
                            To fight from Lookout to the Sea,
                            With her proud banner over me.
                            But from my lips thanksgiving broke
                            As God in battle thunder spoke,
                            And that Black Idol, breeding drouth
                            And dearth of human sympathy
                            Throughout the sweet and sensuous South,
                            Was, with its chains and human yoke,
                            Blown hellward from the cannon's mouth,
                            While Freedom cheered behind the smoke!"
                        
                        Again, when invited to read a poem before the Phi Beta Kappa, of Harvard,
                            in 1893, he chose for his subject "Lincoln's
                            Grave," expressing, with greater care, similar feelings of
                            loyalty, and recounting Lincoln's high qualities with eloquent
                            appreciation.
                        Mr. Thompson has published a number of novels: "A Tallahassee
                            Girl" (1882); "His 
                            Second Campaign" (1882); "At Love's
                            Extremes" (1885); "A Banker of Bankersville"
                            (1886); "A Fortnight of Folly" (1888); and
                            "Stories of the Cherokee Hills" (1899), a volume of
                            short tales reminiscent of slave days and the author's boyhood.
                            "A Tallahassee Girl" is a graceful and pretty story,
                            the scene of which is laid at the South, as is true also of the two
                            tales that immediately followed it. They convey distinct impressions of
                            phases of Southern life in the early post-bellum period, and abound in
                            romantic color. "Alice of Old Vincennes" (1900), is a
                            captivating tale of the French period of Indiana history, closing with
                            the surrender of Vincennes to Clark. The heroine is delightful, and
                            Father Beret is a character worthy of Dumas. The book shows in all ways
                            a marked advance over any previous prose work of this author. He has
                            also written "The Boys' Book of Sports"
                            (1886); and "Louisiana" (1888), in the Stories of the
                            States series, and "The Ocala Boy" (1885), all for
                            juvenile readers. He has written many essays in which some phase of
                            literature has been observed from the point of view of a nature  lover; and his touch in such instances is
                            always light and his matter bright and stimulating. Two volumes of such
                            papers have been collected, "By-ways and Bird Notes"
                            (1885) and "Sylvan Secrets" (1887). The scientist and
                            the litterateur meet in his discussions of the mind and memory of birds,
                            and the anatomy of bird-song; and his essay on Shakespeare, written
                            within sound of the Gulf of Mexico, to the accompaniment of the songs of
                            mocking-birds, is wholly characteristic of his independence in literary
                            matters. He has been one of the most courageous champions of the
                            romantic as against the analytic and realistic. He delivered at the
                            Hartford Theological Seminary, in 1883, a series of lectures dealing
                            comprehensively with the question of morality in literature, and he
                            embodied these in a volume, "The Ethics of Literary
                            Art" (1883). Mr. Thompson became, in 1889, literary editor of
                            the New York Independent, reserving, however, the
                            privilege of continuing his residence at Crawfordsville. His home,
                            "Sherwood Place," is on a quiet margin of the town,
                            and the house has stood for  half a
                            century shielded from the public eye by native beeches and alien pines.
                            Mr. Thompson's life is wholly devoted to study and writing. His
                            instincts are thoroughly scholarly, and in some directions, as in Greek
                            poetry and Old French literature, where long and loving study have given
                            him special knowledge, he is an authority. He has no complaints of the
                            world's treatment of him or his work, and he declares that his
                            writings have been received with much more cordiality than they have
                            deserved. He is exceedingly kind to beginners in literature, and his
                            criticisms have been of benefit to many young Western and Southern
                            writers. Wabash College conferred upon him, in 1900, the degree of
                            Doctor of Letters.
                        His brother, Will H. Thompson, was born in Missouri (1846), and the
                            experiences of their youth and early manhood were similar. Will Thompson
                            was a marvellous archer, and shared his brother's enthusiasm
                            for hunting with bow and arrow. He has not been, in recent years, a
                            resident of Crawfordsville, having removed to the State of Washington,
                            but  he wrote while in Indiana his
                            "High Tide at Gettysburg," one of the few poems of the
                            Civil War that has adequately expressed the spirit of battle and the
                            larger meaning of the conflict.
                    
                    
                        III. Mary H. KroutCaroline V. Krout
                        
                        Mary H. Krout, another Crawfordsville author, has added to the
                            distinction of an Indiana family in which an admiral, George Brown, and
                            several scholars and scientists have appeared. In her girlhood she wrote
                            the verses "Little Brown Hands," which have enjoyed a
                            vitality not always relished by the author, whose later and longer
                            flights are better deserving of recognition. Miss Krout has been an
                            indefatigable traveller, and her books include "Hawaii and a
                            Revolution" (1898), an account of her personal experiences in
                            the Sandwich Islands during the political crisis that preceded
                            annexation; also "A Looker-on in London" (1899), which
                            describes novel phases of English life freshly. Miss Krout more recently
                            penetrated to the interior of China, visiting cities remote from the
                            beaten track of travel. Her sister, Caroline V. Krout,  a classical scholar of high attainment,
                            has written, under the nom de plume "Caroline Brown,"
                            "Knights in Fustian" (1900), a novel of Indiana. The
                            "knights in fustian" are "Knights of the
                            Golden Circle," a treasonable society which menaced Indiana
                            during the Civil War. The principal characters are the fatuous rustics,
                            who indulge their crude taste for the mysterious in the secret meetings
                            and sonorous ritual of the society. Miss Krout knows the people of her
                            own soil thoroughly, and the particular type that has attracted her is
                            set out in her pages with photographic accuracy. The tale is true to
                            history and to the local life, and its literary excellence places the
                            author's name high on the roll of Western writers. She has also
                            written many short stories for the periodicals.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    "OF MAKING MANY BOOKS THERE IS NO END"
                    THE multiplication of books by Indianians increased
                        steadily during the last decade of the nineteenth century. Much of the
                        production in prose is unimportant save as it is taken in connection with
                        the general rise of cultivation in the State, and not a little derives
                        interest principally from the personality of the writers. Fiction attracted
                        many during the period indicated, and the impulse in this direction has been
                        attended with notable successes. The part played by Indiana in the Civil War
                        has latterly received attention, and the newer phases of village life have
                        also been treated. Local history has not, unfortunately, attracted the
                        literary Hedgling in Indiana so often as could have been desired, though the
                        field is inviting, and thorough work of this kind is far likelier to enjoy
                        permanency than fair or indifferent fiction or mediocre verse. Criticism is
                        naturally last to receive  attention, and
                        little critical writing can be credited to the State. It is, however,
                        remarkable that so much good work is done in the several departments, the
                        inference being that where so many are moved to make experiments, the
                        general average of cultivation must be high.
                    Indiana has been a kind of way station for many who have gained their chief
                        distinction else-where. Joaquin Miller and John James Piatt were born in
                        Indiana, but left in childhood, and Mary Hartwell Catherwood lived in the
                        State for a number of years; but these writers may hardly be numbered among
                        Indiana authors. James Newton Matthews, an Indianian who has lived for many
                        years in Illinois, has written much good verse, and is included in
                        discriminating anthologies. Lyman Abbott began his ministry in Indiana as
                        pastor of the Congregational Church at Terre Haute. Both Charles Warren
                        Stoddard and Maurice Francis Egan were members of the faculty of Notre Dame
                        University at different periods. The Rev. Arthur Wentworth Eaton, a poet and
                        writer on Acadian life, was once a resident of Indianapolis; and Henry F.
                        Keenan, who wrote "Trajan" 
                        and other novels, edited the Indianapolis Sentinel before
                        he became an author. The Rev. Bernard Harrison Nadal (18121870) held a
                        professorship at Asbury University from 1854 to 1857, and was the father of
                        E. S. Nadal, an essayist whose critical papers appeal to the admirers of a
                        calm and pensive style of writing. Miss Lucy S. Furman's
                        "Stories of a Sanctified Town" (1896) were written at
                        Evansville, though the scenes are laid in Kentucky. The Rev. James Cooley
                        Fletcher, of the well-known Indiana family of that name, is the author of
                        "Brazil and Brazilians" (1868); and his daughter, Julia
                        Constance, wrote, under the penname "George Fleming," the
                        novels "Kismet" (1877); "Mirage" (1878);
                        "The Head of Medusa" (1880); "Vestigia"
                        (1884); and "Andromeda" (1885). Both have long been absent
                        from the State, Mr. Fletcher in California and his daughter in Italy.
                    
                    
                        I. Fiction
                        
                        Booth Tarkington stands with Mr. Riley as the exponent of a Hoosier who
                            is kindly, generous, humorous, and essentially domestic. His novel,
                            "A Gentleman from Indiana" (1899), depicts the
                            semi-urban type that Mr. Riley so often celebrates in verse.
                            Whitecapping as introduced in this story is only the coarse exploit of a
                            vicious colony living on the outskirts of the town in which Mr.
                            Tarkington's tale has its habitation. The author plainly states
                            that his whitecaps are not to be confounded with vigilance committees
                            that undertake to reform the morals of individuals, but that they are
                            rowdies who masquerade as whitecaps merely for purposes of private
                            mischief and vengeance. Their settlement resembles in some degree the
                            "tough neighborhood" often found in cities. The
                            hostility between the people of Plattville and the Cross Roads element
                            dates back to the first movement of population on the long trail from
                            North Carolina into the Ohio Valley. The Cross Roads folk had been evil
                            and worthless in their early homes, and they carried their worst traits
                                 with them into Indiana. Mr.
                            Tarkington has followed accurately the social history of the good stock
                            and the bad, illustrating the antipathy existing between the prosperous
                            and intelligent and the idle and ignorant. The distinction of Plattville
                            as a county seat of the central West is well established, and its
                            indolence, amiability, and pride are characteristic. The hero is a new
                            type of Hoosier, who has little kinship with the earlier people of
                            Eggleston, or with the Hoosier as Riley reports him; he is a native, but
                            has experienced at an Eastern college an intellectual change
                            "into something rich and strange," and after long
                            absence becomes a pilgrim of light among his own people.
                        Mr. Tarkington has a perfect appreciation of the strength of local
                            affection in the Hoosier, and also of the thoroughly American absorption
                            in politics which seems to be more marked in county seats of a few
                            thousand inhabitants than in large cities. History in towns like
                            Plattville is not dated, anno urbis
                                condine,
                             but from a political incident or the visit of a President; and a
                            national campaign is a quadrennial blessing that renews in the obscurest
                                 inhabitant the sense of his
                            individual responsibility to the government. Mr. Tarkington emphasizes
                            the homogeneity of the Middle Western folk; and this is warranted fully
                            by the statisticians. The people of his town live together like a great,
                            kind family, who are sufficient unto themselves. He has thrown into the
                            story the sincerity, affection, and loyalty that are their attributes;
                            and he adds, moreover, the atmosphere of the Indiana landscape, with a
                            nice appreciation of its loveliness, sometimes hinted and often
                            charmingly expressed. There is a crisp, bracing quality in the writing
                            that fitly accompanies the story, which is, taken all in all, one of the
                            most creditable novels yet written of life in the Ohio Valley. There is
                            every reason why Mr. Tarkington should know his Indiana well, as his
                            family has been prominent in the State for three generations, and he is
                            a native, having been born at Indianapolis (1869). He was educated at
                            Purdue and Princeton, receiving from the latter the degree of A. M. in
                            1898. He has also written (1900) "Monsieur Beaucaire,"
                            a dramatic novelette of the eighteenth 
                            century, in which a few striking incidents are handled most effectively.
                            The story has the charm of an exquisite miniature.
                        Indiana village life has been made the subject of careful study by Anna
                            Nicholas, in a series of short stories collected under the title
                            "An Idyl of the Wabash" (1899). Religious phenomena
                            have greatly attracted Miss Nicholas, and she has supplemented Dr.
                            Eggleston's studies of an earlier period with her artistic
                            sketches of contemporary life. The social importance of the church, the
                            vagaries of belief in a typical Western village, and the intensity of
                            the "revival" spirit are treated with sympathy and
                            humor. Several of these tales are, between the lines, a tribute to that
                            vigorous Protestant evangelization of Indiana, which triumphed over mud
                            and malaria and carried the gospel far beyond the sound of church bells.
                            Miss Nicholas has written with keen penetration of the suppressed tragic
                            element in rural life, but without morbidity. Her characters are always
                            inevitably related to the incidents, and she communicates with unfailing
                            success a sense of the humble atmosphere 
                            of her farm and village. These stories are distinguished by the evident
                            sincerity of their purpose to reflect life honestly, and they are
                            written in a straightforward manner that aids the impression. They
                            illustrate anew the possibilities of a local literature that follows
                            progressively the formative years of a community's life. It is
                            even now difficult to persuade the present generations of Indianians
                            that Dr. Eggleston's Hoosiers ever lived; and Miss Nicholas,
                            Mr. Riley, and Mr. Tarkington have continued the story that was begun by
                            their predecessor, adding chapters equally instructive and valuable.
                        Mary Jameson Judah's "Down Our Way" (1897) is
                            not limited to a particular region, but combines with studies of the
                            author's own Indiana, sketches of social life at the South. The
                            allurements of those organizations for individual improvement and
                            general reform that have enlisted the energies of so many women in
                            recent years have appealed to Mrs. Judah's sense of humor; and
                            her stories show a fine appreciation of the niceties of social
                            perspective and proportion in Southern and  Western cities. The short story is happily adapted to the need of the
                            casual observer of local life, and tales like these, which bear the
                            stamp of fidelity, have an inestimable value for future students.
                        An increasing attention to local historical matters has lately been
                            marked, and an excellent instance of this is afforded by Millard Cox
                            ("Henry Scott Clark") in "The
                            Legionaries" (1899), a story of the Morgan raid into Indiana.
                            The political and social conditions on the Indiana-Kentucky border
                            during the Civil War were interesting, and worthy of the study that has
                            been given to them in this novel. The military episode of which Morgan
                            was the chief figure, though slight in comparison with the larger
                            movements of the war, was dramatic and daring, and it lends itself well
                            to this romantic setting. Mr. Cox is a native Indianian (1856).
                        James A. Wickersham, an Indiana educator, has analyzed certain religious
                            conditions minutely in "Enoch Willoughby" (1900). This
                            is a novel of character rather than of incident, and marks still another
                            departure in  method among writers of the
                            Indiana group. The tale is not wholly indigenous, as the characters
                            belong as truly to one State as to another of the Middle West. The
                            Willoughbys are studied as a family in which peculiarities have always
                            been observed, and in Enoch an hereditary "queerness"
                            is manifested in religious idiosyncrasies.
                        The revival of interest in romantic fiction, that marked the closing
                            years of the century, witnessed the unusual successes of a number of
                            novels by American authors. One of the most popular romances of this
                            period is "When Knighthood was in Flower" (1898), by
                            Charles Major, a native of Indianapolis (1856), who is living at
                            Shelbyville, twenty miles distant from the capital. Mr. Major served no
                            apprenticeship as an author; this romance was his first book. He was
                            educated in the Indiana public schools and at the University of
                            Michigan, and was actively engaged in the practice of law when he wrote
                            the novel, as a diversion, on his Sunday afternoons at home. The
                            friendliness of the English-reading public to this tale is not difficult
                            to understand. It is a love story  whose
                            chief characters, Charles Brandon and Mary Tudor, possess those
                            qualities of youth, vivacity, and spirit that so inevitably win the
                            heart in fiction or the drama. The tale is told by Sir Edwin Caskoden, a
                            master of the dance at the court of Henry VIII., and not by the author
                            direct,a familiar trick of the historical novelist; and it serves an
                            excellent purpose, affording a valid excuse for the ostensible editor to
                            render the sixteenth-century narrative of Caskoden into racy
                            nineteenth-century English. This novel is one of the noteworthy
                            achievements of Indianians in the field of romance, suggesting again
                            what has been so true of General Wallace,that the imagination is
                            superior to all laws, and that the romantic vision easily pierces
                            barriers of circumstance.
                        George Cary Eggleston, a brother of Edward, was born at Vevay (1839),
                            received his preliminary education in the schools of Vevay and Madison,
                            and attended Asbury University, but did not complete his course there.
                            When still under seventeen he took charge of a school in a wild district
                            of the State, but at the end of his engagement he went to Virginia to
                            the old  homestead of his
                            father's family, completed his college course, studied law, and
                            served in the Confederate army. He has for many years been a well-known
                            New York journalist, and he is the author of many books. He has always
                            maintained relations with his native State, and has utilized his
                            knowledge of it in his writings. In his novel "A Man of
                            Honor" (1873), the hero is an Indiana boy, the son of a
                            Kentucky mother and a Virginia father, as was the case with Mr.
                            Eggleston himself. Another novel, "Juggernaut" (1891),
                            opens in Indiana. A Hoosier boy is the hero, and the description of his
                            early life among the hills of southern Indiana is pleasantly reminiscent
                            of the author's own experiences. In a number of juvenile
                            stories, among them being "The Last of the Flat-boats"
                            (1900). Mr. Eggleston has drawn upon his recollections of Hoosierdom,
                            and there is, he says, something of Indiana in everything that he has
                            written. Before Mr. Eggleston had seriously begun literary work the name
                            of his brother Edward was so identified with Hoosier soil that the
                            younger man could hardly invade it with literary intent without risking
                            the charge  of imitation; yet it is
                            significant of the tenacity of his early impressions that throughout his
                            life the scenes of his childhood and youth have continued to invite his
                            imagination.
                    
                    
                        II. History and Politics
                        
                        It is a pleasure to include George W. Julian (18171899) among those who
                            have added lustre to Indiana's name. He was born at
                            Centerville, Wayne County, of Quaker parents who had followed the
                            familiar line of march from North Carolina to Indiana. He worked in the
                            fields, studied by the light of the fireplace, taught school, read law,
                            and in general experienced those vicissitudes and embarrassments that
                            beset so many ambitious American youths of his generation. The law was a
                            stepping-stone to politics, and from 1840 until the last years of his
                            long life he was constantly an eager observer of political movements
                            when not an active participant in campaigns. He was a founder and leader
                            of the Free-soil party, and was its candidate for the vice-presidency on
                            the ticket headed by John P. Hale in 1852. He was repeatedly elected a
                            representative in Congress, first as a 
                            Free-soil candidate, and thereafter as a Republican, from what was known
                            as "the burnt district" in eastern Indiana, serving
                            through the Civil War. He was a vigorous opponent of slavery, and his
                            "Speeches on Political Subjects" (1872), for which
                            Lydia Maria Child wrote an introduction, is a record of his radical
                            opposition that began in 1850 and continued to the close of the
                            rebellion. His integrity of opinion was unimpeachable. He was a
                            laborious student, and, although without the graces of oratory, he was
                            an impressive and effective speaker. He shared the ignominy that was
                            visited upon Lovejoy, Phillips, Giddings, and others of the early
                            antislavery phalanx, and his Congressional campaigns were marked by
                            bitter and violent abuse from his opponents. His powers of invective
                            made him a formidable antagonist. When his severity was criticised, he
                            would say that "there is nothing in my speech but the truth
                            that hurts." He was essentially a reformer and an independent,
                            and broke fearlessly with his party when he could not conscientiously
                            follow it. Thus he joined in the Liberal Republican movement, and
                            supported Greeley. He then  became, and
                            remained to the end of his life, a Democrat, and was appointed by Mr.
                            Cleveland surveyor-general of New Mexico. He made his home for thirty
                            years at Irvington, a suburb of Indianapolis and the seat of Butler
                            College, where he was the village Nestor. He delighted in literature,
                            lived among books, contributed often to the periodical press, and wrote
                            (1892) the "Life of Joshua R. Giddings."
                        Civic interests have marked also the career of William Dudley Foulke, who
                            was born in New York City (1848) and educated at Columbia College, being
                            graduated in 1869. Mr. Foulke's antecedents were Quakers, and
                            he removed, in 1876, to Wayne County, one of the principal centres of
                            the Society of Friends in Indiana. Mr. Foulke practised law and sat in
                            the State senate (18831885) as a Republican, but became an independent
                            upon the nomination of Mr. Blaine, and thereafter gave his attention to
                            various political reforms, notably in the civil service, conducting
                            investigations and frequently delivering addresses. He published (1887)
                            "Slav and Saxon," an essay on the future of the two
                            races which are,  in his belief, to
                            contend finally for supremacy in the world. He gave many years to the
                            study of the war period in Indiana, with a view to writing the life of
                            Oliver P. Morton. Indiana's "War Governor,"
                            who had been a citizen of Wayne County; and this biography (1899) is not
                            only a thorough study of Morton's public services, but of the
                            period to which he belonged as well.
                        Early associated with Mr. Foulke in civil service reform work in Indiana
                            was Oliver T. Morton (18601898), the son of Governor Morton, who was
                            born in Wayne County and educated at Yale and Oxford. His volume of
                            essays, "The Southern Empire" (1892), contains,
                            besides the title paper, an historical essay on Oxford and an excellent
                            discussion of civil service reform. The opening essay is a most
                            suggestive presentation of the slaveholders' ambitions to found
                            a vast tropical slave empire. It is of interest to read this, in the
                            light of the senior Morton's herculean efforts against slavery;
                            but that one generation may easily differ from another is proved, by the
                            concluding essay in advocacy of the merit system,  which found few friends in the period of which Senator
                            Morton was a dominating figure.
                        Mr. Foulke's brother-in-law, Arthur Middleton Reeves (18561891),
                            found employment for his scholarly tastes in unusual channels. After his
                            graduation from Cornell (1878), he devoted himself to the study of
                            Icelandic language and lore, in which his interest had been aroused by
                            Professor Willard Fiske; and he subsequently continued his studies
                            abroad in Europe and Iceland. He was an industrious and painstaking
                            student, with a passion for accuracy, and the volume of his letters
                            collected, and published for his friends shows him to have possessed
                            unusually varied talents. He wrote "The Finding of Wineland the
                            Good: The History of the Icelandic Discovery of America"
                            (1890); "Lad and Lass: Story of Life in Iceland"
                            (1890); "Jan: A Short Story" (1892); and he had begun,
                            with Dr. Valtyr Gudmundsson of Copenhagen, a translation of the Laxdla Saga when, on the occasion of a visit to his
                            home in Indiana, he was killed in a railway accident.
                        
                        The first Indiana historian was John B. Dillon, who was born at
                            Wellsburg, West Virginia (1808), learned the printer's trade,
                            and removed to Indiana in 1834. While resident at Logansport he studied
                            law and was admitted to the bar; but his quiet, studious habits and
                            natural reserve unfitted him for the practice, and he never tested his
                            powers. He turned, fortunately, to the study of Indiana's
                            history; and appreciating the importance of assembling data before the
                            death of witnesses and participants, began collecting material, and
                            published (1859) a "History of Indiana," covering the
                            period from the first explorations to 1856. This work represents many
                            years of laborious research in a field that was practically untouched.
                            It is the point of departure for all who study Indiana history, and it
                            is as exact as diligent care could make it. Dillon published
                            "Notes on Historical Evidence in Reference to Adverse Theories
                            of the Origin and Nature of the Government of the United
                            States" (1871); and at his death left the manuscript of a work
                            called "Oddities of Colonial Legislation."
                        
                        He received a number of minor appointments under the Federal government,
                            residing at Washington from 1863 to 1875. He returned to Indianapolis at
                            the termination of these employments and died there, in 1879. He was
                            gentle, patient, modest, and industrious, a man of merit, faithful in
                            all things. He never married, and had no interests save those of the
                            student. His proper place was in the quiet alcoves of libraries; and it
                            must always be remembered to his credit that with little encouragement,
                            and for the love of the labor, rather than for any reward, he gave many
                            laborious years to the task of establishing the State's place
                            in history.
                        Jacob P. Dunn, who wrote "Indiana: A Redemption from
                            Slavery," in the American Commonwealth series (1888), employed
                            critical methods that were not known in Dillon's day. His work
                            deals with a brief period, and with events that had not previously been
                            viewed in their proper perspective. He brought to bear upon his subject
                            a scientific analysis and an exhaustive research that show especial
                            fitness for historical writing. His descriptions  of the early French habitant are
                            delightfully written, and give a distinct impression of the first white
                            settlers of the Wabash. Mr. Dunn has written also "Massacres of
                            the Mountains" (1886), an account of the Indian wars of the
                            West, which is noteworthy for its thorough treatment of the Mountain
                            Meadows incident. It is a standard work of reference, and one of the
                            most popular books catalogued in Western libraries. Mr. Dunn served a
                            term as State librarian, and has been for many years tireless in
                            promoting interest in libraries for rural communities. He was born at
                            Lawrenceburg (1855), and was graduated (1874) from Earlham College.
                        John Clark Ridpath (18401900), one of the most prolific of Indiana
                            authors, was born in Putnam County and was graduated from Asbury
                            University, with which he was subsequently connected in various teaching
                            and administrative capacities for many years. He was a most successful
                            teacher, particularly of history. Besides many text-books he published
                            "A Cyclopdia of Universal History" (1885);  "Great Races of
                            Mankind" (1894); "Life and Memoirs of Bishop William
                            Taylor" (1895); and many monographs on historical and
                            biographical subjects.
                        Richard G. Boone's "History of Education in
                            Indiana" (1892) is one of the most important books in the
                            State's bibliography. Mr. Boone is also the author of
                            "Education in the United States" (1894). He was for
                            ten years identified with the common schools of Indiana, and for seven
                            years held the chair of pedagogies at Indiana University, resigning to
                            become superintendent of schools at Cincinnati.
                        "The Puritan Republic" (1899), by Daniel Wait Howe,
                            shows further the grasp of newer methods in historical writing, and is
                            distinguished by thorough treatment and judicial temper. It would seem
                            that nothing could be added to the literature of this subject, which has
                            attracted so many skilled historians; but Judge Howe adduced much new
                            material and presented the old and familiar in an orderly and attractive
                            manner. This is a thorough and exact work, which has taken  rank with the accepted authorities. Judge
                            Howe is entitled to his word on the Puritan, as his ancestors were among
                            the pioneers of Sudbury, Massachusetts. He was born in Switzerland
                            County (1839), was graduated from Franklin College, served four years in
                            the Civil War as an Indiana soldier, and enjoyed the unusual distinction
                            of sitting for fourteen years continuously as a judge of the Superior
                            Court at Indianapolis. He has contributed valuable essays to the
                            publications of the Indiana Historical Society.
                        William H. English (18221896) gave many years to a study of the life and
                            services of George Rogers Clark, and produced (1896) "Conquest
                            of the Country Northwest of the River Ohio, and Life of George Rogers
                            Clark," an elaborate work in two volumes, which is a veritable
                            encyclopdia of facts. As Clark had been one of the neglected figures in
                            American history, the preparation of his biography was in the nature of
                            a public service. Mr. English is also the author of an historical and
                            biographical work on the Indiana constitution. He was born in Scott
                            County, and received his education  in the
                            public schools and at Hanover College. He served as a representative in
                            Congress (18531861), and in 1880 was the Democratic candidate for
                            vice-president on the ticket with Hancock.
                        "Early Indiana Trials and Sketches" (1858) is a racy
                            record of the personal experiences of Oliver H. Smith (17941859), who
                            had a kind of Boswellian instinct for the interesting. As a lawyer he
                            "rode circuit" with Miles Eggleston, David Wallace,
                            James Rariden, John Test, and others famous in the early days; and no
                            one has written of these men with nicer appreciation of their high
                            qualities. He was elected a senator in Congress in 1836, and served for
                            one term.
                        William Wesley Woollen (1828) has also added to the literature of local
                            biography. His "Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early
                            Indiana" (1883) contains information that is nowhere else
                            accessible, and it is, moreover, a well-written and entertaining volume.
                        David Demaree Banta (18331896) wrote often and well on subjects of local
                            history, and his "Historical Sketch of Johnson County"
                                 (1881) shines amid the dreary waste
                            of Indiana County histories. It contains a rare fund of information
                            touching pioneer life in general, and reflects in some degree the
                            personality of the accomplished and versatile author, who was a fine
                            type of the native Hoosier.
                    
                    
                        III. Miscellaneous
                        
                        The press of Indiana has aided greatly in the State's
                            intellectual advance. In the larger towns the newspapers have usually
                            been well written, and many of them have extended sympathetic
                            encouragement to beginners in authorship. Many Western writers found
                            their first friendly editors at the offices of the Herald or Journal at Indianapolis. John H.
                            Holliday, G. C. Matthews, Anna Nicholas, Elijah W. Halford, Charles
                            Richard Williams, A. H. Dooley, Lewis D. Hayes, Morris Ross and Louis
                            Howland are among those who, in the hurried labors of daily
                            newspaper-making, have found time to preach the gospel of
                            "sweetness and light" through the Indianapolis press.
                            High on the roll of Indiana journalists whose talents are especially
                            deserving of remembrance is Berry R. Sulgrove  (18271890), who was born at Indianapolis, attended local
                            schools, learned the saddler's trade, and worked for a short
                            time as a journeyman. His aptness and love of learning had attracted
                            attention, and in 1847 he was enabled to enter Bethany College, West
                            Virginia, then under the presidency of the famous Alexander Campbell.
                            His preparatory studies at the "Old Seminary" of
                            Indianapolis had been so thorough that he was graduated at the end of
                            one year with all the honors of the college, and delivered his
                            commencement oration in Greek. He studied law and practised for a few
                            years, but became connected with the Journal in 1854,
                            and was thereafter identified with the press of Indianapolis. He
                            possessed an extraordinary memory that was a source of constant
                            amazement to his friends and associates. His information in many
                            departments of knowledge was both extensive and exact, and he retained,
                            to the end of his life, his interest in public matters, foreign and
                            domestic. He wrote with precision and grace, and his use of homely,
                            local illustrations added to the interest and force of what he had to
                            say. Now and  then a Macaulay-like roll
                            would sound in his sentences; and he would frequently imitate
                            Macaulay's rhetorical tricks, as by declaring, with conscious
                            humor, that some local event had "never been equalled between
                            the old bridge and the bayou"; but he wrote usually without
                            affectation, and his prodigious memory made possible a variety of
                            suggestion and illustration that never failed to distinguish his work.
                            During many years he was at different times a contributor of editorial
                            matter to all of the Indianapolis newspapers, extending his field at
                            intervals to the Chicago and Cincinnati dailies. He wrote usually at his
                            home, and latterly had no desk in any newspaper office, though a member
                            of the News staff to the end of his life. His
                            manuscript was famous among Western printers, who encountered it at
                            Cincinnati, Indianapolis, and Chicago, and in the day of Mr.
                            Sulgrove's greatest activity seemed unable to escape from it.
                            He wrote habitually on the backs of old election tickets, on scraps of
                            programmes, on bits of paper picked up on his country walks, but never
                            by any chance on a clean new sheet designed for the purpose.  His handwriting was microscopic, but
                            perfectly legible, carefully punctuated, and free from erasure. A slip
                            the length and breadth of the hand might contain half a column. No more
                            interesting figure than he ever appeared in Indiana journalism; but his
                            ambitions were not equal to his talents, and he was long an obscure
                            figure in the city of his birth, whose intimate history he knew
                            familiarly. His "History of Indianapolis and Marion
                            County" (1884) contains only slight hints of his superior
                            abilities.
                        His contemporary, George C. Harding (18291881), was a native of
                            Tennessee, but gave the best years of his life to journalism at
                            Indianapolis. He was a student of human nature rather than of books, but
                            his literary instinets were true, and in the two weekly newspapers, the
                                Herald and the Review, which he
                            conducted, he was at once the inspiration and the terror of his
                            contributors. Some of the sketches in a volume of his
                            "Miscellaneous Writings" (1882) show an agreeably
                            humorous turn. He had the trained journalist's appreciation of
                            condensed wisdom. It was his habit to repeat, week after week, a
                            satirical paragraph in which some individual  was pilloried until the victim's name became a
                            by-word and a hissing in the community. Sometimes this served a moral
                            purpose; again the intention was purely humorous. Years ago a candidate
                            for constable, who was also a delegate to the nominating convention held
                            at Indianapolis, received therein exactly one vote. The question,
                            "Who voted for Daubenspeck?" was thereupon reiterated
                            weekly in the Herald, until it passed permanently into
                            a phrase of local speech.
                        Angelina Teal's "John Thorne's Folks"
                            (1884), and "Muriel Howe" (1892); Margaret
                            Holmes's "Chamber Over the Gate" (1886);
                            Martha Livingstone Moody's "Alan Thorne"
                            (1889); Harriet Newell Lodge's "A Bit of
                            Finesse" (1894); many excellent short stories by Helen Rockwood
                            Edson, literary essays by Harriet Noble and Kate Milner Rabb, and Ida
                            Husted Harper's "Life and Work of Susan B.
                            Anthony," emphasize the part that women have played in the
                            State's literary achievement. The Rev. Charles R. Henderson, of
                            Lafayette, a member of the faculty of Chicago University, has been a
                            prolific writer on sociological subjects. 
                            John Augustine Wilstach, also of Lafayette, has busied himself with
                            philological studies. He translated Virgil (1884) and Dante (1888), and
                            coincidently with the publication of these versions issued critical
                            reviews of the literature touching his subjects. The text of Lucian was
                            edited for school use (1882) by Charles Richard Williams, who became an
                            Indianapolis journalist; and Demarchus C. Brown translated selections of
                            Lucian into English (1896). George Ade, who discovered fresh subjects
                            for materialistic fiction in Chicago, was born in Indiana and educated
                            at Purdue, as was also his illustrator, John T. McCutcheon. Mr. Ade has
                            a touch all his own, and his character studies are thoroughly original.
                            He and Hector Fuller, another Hoosier writer of short fiction, show how
                            the journalist may successfully turn his hand to book-making. William P.
                            Fishback, one of the founders of the Indianapolis Literary Club, has
                            published (1895) his "Recollections of Lord
                            Coleridge," with whom he enjoyed a delightful acquaintance; and
                            another member of the club, Augustus Lynch Mason, wrote
                            "Romance and Tragedy of Pioneer Life"  (1883). Benjamin Harrison's
                            public services cannot obscure the fact of his authorship of
                            "This Country of Ours" (1899), a capital account of
                            the functions of the several departments of the Federal government.
                        That form of humorous writing which has become a feature of American
                            journalism, and which is, moreover, a sharply critical commentary on
                            contemporaneous American life, not to be rejected lightly, is also
                            produced in great volume in Indiana. This goes to the public
                            anonymously, but Emma Carleton, R. D. Stevenson
                            ("Wickwire"), and Wood Levette Wilson are among those
                            whose dialogues, paragraphs, and jingles constantly appear in many
                            publications. S. W. Gillilan, who wrote "Finnigan to
                            Flannigan," the verses in Irish dialect which have become a
                            kind of American railway classic, is an Indianian.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    AN INDIANA CHOIR
                    
                        I. Early Writers
                        
                        THE specific talent necessary to the expression of
                            local life is much rarer than the ability to write of life in the
                            abstract. If the knack of writing accompanied a sensibility to the life
                            that lay nearest, we should long ago have had an abundant American
                            literature descriptive of conditions that have passed and will not, in
                            the very nature of things, recur. But the line of impressionability may
                            not be controlled; and though many protests have been launched against
                            minor American poets for looking beyond the robin to the nightingale,
                            the rejection of the near continues, though in a diminishing degree. The
                            early poets of the Ohio Valley did not often approach closely to the
                            Western soil, they lacked insight and courage and their work was usually
                            not interesting. When they occasionally essayed a Western subject, they
                            were  unable to bring to bear upon it any
                            novelty of treatment; it was all "icily regular, splendidly
                            null." William T. Coggeshall states in the preface to his
                            "Poets and Poetry of the West" (1864) that in the
                            early years of the nineteenth century "soldiers, hunters, and
                            boatmen had among them many songs descriptive of adventures incident to
                            backwoods life, some of which were not destitute of poetic merit; but
                            they were known only around campfires, or on
                            'broadhorns'" (flat-boats), and tradition, he
                            adds, preserved none worthy to be included in his anthology. But these
                            racy songs would have been of greater value than much of the verse that
                            he has preserved in his pages, though as a part of the history of
                            development this, too, is not to be spurned. Coggeshall's work
                            includes notices of ninety-seven men and fifty-five women. Twenty-three
                            of the total he attributes to Indiana by reason of residence, and
                            thirteen of the number were natives of the State. Only a small
                            proportion of the poets named by Coggeshall survived, though the writers
                            of the biographical notes accompanying his selections were cordial and
                            anxious  to confer immortality. William D.
                            Howells and John J. Piatt are included, and Mr. Howells wrote several of
                            the sketches. It is diverting to read the opinion of Mr.
                            Howells's biographer that "some of his prose sketches
                            are quite equal in grace of conception and individuality of treatment to
                            any of his poems." He was then twenty-seven.
                        Cincinnati and Lexington, Kentucky, were early rivals for literary
                            prominence at the West: one was the seat of Cincinnati College, the
                            other of Transylvania University. Many books were published at Lexington
                            before 1825, and The Medley, or Monthly
                                Miscellany, which appeared there in 1803, is believed to have
                            been the first magazine published west of the Alleghanies.
                            Hunt's Western Review, which was formerly
                            regarded as the pioneer, dated from 1819, and was also a Lexington
                            publication. Lexington dropped out, and Louisville fell into place as a
                            defender of the literary faith with the advent of George D. Prentice,
                            who became the ardent champion of the muses in the Ohio Valley. The
                            headquarters of poets for this region was the office of the Louisville
                                
                            Journal during Prentice's reign, and all of
                            the Coggeshall poets laid the tribute of their song before him. To
                            paraphrase Bishop Butler's remark about the strawberry, quoted
                            by Walton, doubtless Prentice might have declined a poem or discouraged
                            a poet, but doubtless he never did. He was not an exacting critic, and
                            he encouraged many who were without talent; but he took away the
                            reproach of the neglected and unappreciated, and now and then he found a
                            few grains in the chaff to pay him for his trouble.
                        The Literary Gazette, which appeared at Cincinnati in
                            1824, with the motto "Not to display learning, but to excite a
                            taste for it," numbered Mrs. Julia L. Dumont, of Vevay, among
                            its contributors; and she was the first Indiana writer to become
                            identified with the group of aspirants that now began to appear along
                            the Ohio. The prospectus of another Western Review,
                            published at Cincinnati for three years from May, 1827, declared that
                            "we are a scribbling and forthputting people. Little as they
                            have dreamed of the fact in the Atlantic country, we have our thousand
                                 orators and poets." However
                            this may have been, "the Atlantic country" invaded the
                            Ohio Valley in 1835, when the Western Messenger was
                            begun at Cincinnati, under the auspices of the Western Unitarian
                            Association. It was edited first by the Rev. Ephraim Peabody, and later,
                            at Louisville, by James Freeman Clarke. Clarke left Louisville in 1840,
                            and the Messenger was continued at Cincinnati by the
                            Rev. W. H. Channing. John B. Dillon represented Indiana in its table of
                            contents, and found himself in good company, with Emerson, William
                            Ellery Channing, Jones Very, and C. P. Cranch. The periodical was, as
                            Venable calls it, "an exotica Boston flower blooming on the
                            Ohio," and it ceased to appear in 1841. In the same year, the
                                Ladies' Repository made its appearance at
                            Cincinnati, under Methodist auspices, and was published continuously for
                            thirty-six years. Mrs. Dumont, Mrs. Sarah T. Bolton, Miss Mary Louise
                            Chitwood, Mrs. Rebecca S. Nichols, Mrs. A. L. Ruter Dufour, Horace P.
                            Biddle, and Isaac H. Julian were the principal Indiana contributors. The
                            number of Indiana writers  increased
                            steadily, and the Genius of the West, a Cincinnati
                            magazine dating from 1855, extended the list to include the names of
                            Benjamin S. Parker, John B. Dillon, and Louise E. Vickroy. Peter Fishe
                            Reed, also a contributor to the Genius of the West and
                            similar magazines of the period, combined farming with literary
                            experiments near Mount Vernon (Indiana), and lived for a time at
                            Indianapolis. The majority of these pioneer periodicals lived only a
                            short time, and the Civil War brought a final interruption to most of
                            them; they passed out with the "annuals," whose
                            literary flavor was similar. Indiana's ante-bellum writers
                            usually looked to Louisville and Cincinnati for publicity, and no
                            serious effort was made to establish literary magazines within the
                                State.1 It curiously happened, however, that Emerson Bennett, a
                            voluminous producer of "penny dreadfuls," published a
                            literary paper called the Casket, at Lawrenceburgh
                            (1846), but soon abandoned it. The patient research of Venable
                            discovered the Western Censor, published  at Indianapolis in 18231824, and The Family Schoolmaster, which had a brief existence
                            at Richmond in 1839. The Querist was conducted by Mrs.
                            Nichols for a few months at Cincinnati in 1844, and Henry Ward
                            Beecher's Indiana Farmer and Gardener was
                            begun at Indianapolis in 1845, but removed to Cincinnati in the
                            following year. Beecher's contributions to this paper were the
                            nucleus of his book "A Pleasant Talk about Fruits, Flowers, and
                            Farming." The Literary Messenger is credited
                            to Versailles, 1854.
                                1
                                "Beginnings of Literary Culture in the Ohio
                                    Valley," by W. H. Venable, LL.D., p. 58 et
                                        seq.
                                
                            
                        
                        Coggeshall included among the Indianians in his anthology William Wallace
                            Harney, who was born (1832) at Bloomington, where his father was a
                            professor in Indiana University; and William Ross Wallace, born (1819)
                            at Lexington, Kentucky, and educated at Bloomington and Hanover
                            colleges; but as the literary life of both began after they had left the
                            State, they may hardly be catalogued as Indiana authors. The Rev. Sidney
                            Dyer, a native of New York State (1814), was for a number of years
                            (18521859), a Baptist minister at Indianapolis. He is the author of a
                            number of books, and his writings  include
                            many popular songs and poems. Isaac H. Julian, a native of Wayne County
                            (1823), and the brother of George W. Julian, hardly added subsequently
                            to the reputation he had gained prior to the publication of
                            Coggeshall's book, and the same is true of Granville M.
                            Ballard, who was born in Kentucky (1833), and after his graduation from
                            Asbury University became a resident of Indianapolis, where he is still
                            living. Horace P. Biddle, born in Ohio (18181900), removed at an early
                            age to Indiana, where he became prominent in affairs, and held many
                            public offices before his retirement. He aided in the early efforts in
                            behalf of common school education, and was a diligent student and
                            writer. Noble Butler is placed in Kentucky's list of early
                            writers, though his residence at Hanover gives Indiana a claim upon him.
                            He frequently translated German poetry and wrote original verse
                            occasionally; but the fugitive essays of his nephew, Noble C. Butler, of
                            Indianapolis, are better literature. Coggeshall includes also Jonathan
                            W. Gordon and Henry W. Ellsworth, of Indianapolis, whose contributions
                            to the literature of the  period were
                            slight and without distinction. Ellsworth was a native of Connecticut
                            and a graduate of Yale (1834). Amanda L. Ruter Dufour (18221899) and
                            Laura M. Thurston (18121842) are properly included among
                            Indiana's early poets. The latter wrote the lines "On
                            Crossing the Alleghanies" and "The Green Hills of My
                            Fatherland," which are above the average in the collection and
                            were once much applauded. George W. Cutter, whose "Song of
                            Steam," beginning,
                        
                            "Harness me down with your iron bands;
                            Be sure of your curb and rein,"
                        
                        was once in favor, lived in Indiana, and sat in the General Assembly. He
                            died at Washington in 1865. Rebecca S. Nichols was long associated with
                            the little band of writers who printed verses and tales in Louisville
                            and Cincinnati publications, and her literary instincts were truer than
                            those of most of her contemporaries. She is still living at
                            Indianapolis.
                        A mournful interest attaches to the work of Mary Louise Chitwood, who was
                            born at Mount Carmel, October 29, 1832, and died there twenty-three
                            years later, sincerely mourned  by the
                            whole choir of Western poets. Prentice had encouraged her, and he wrote
                            a memoir to accompany a volume of her verses that appeared in 1857. Her
                            work promised well, though it shared the defects of most of the verse of
                            the day.
                        Sarah T. Bolton is one of the most interesting figures in Coggeshall, and
                            though born in Kentucky (1820), her long life was spent principally in
                            Indiana. Her husband, Nathaniel Bolton, edited the first newspaper ever
                            published in Indianapolis. Mrs. Bolton began writing at an early age,
                            and through many years it may be said that she stood for poetry in
                            Indiana. Many of her poems are stiff and formal and show little
                            originality; but often her pieces are free and spontaneous, and she had
                            humor, which most of the early poets of the West lacked. Her last volume
                            (1891) is dedicated "To the poets of Indiana, my children after
                            the spirit." She was known to Willis and Morris, of the
                            Knickerbocker group contemporary with her. Her husband was appointed
                            consul at Geneva in 1855, and she lived for a number of years abroad,
                            finding fresh material for poems in her 
                            travels. She died at Indianapolis in 1893. Her best-known poem is
                            "Paddle Your Own Canoe." She was a loyal Indianaian
                            and wrote the lines:
                        
                            "The winds of Heaven never fanned,
                            The circling sunlight never spanned
                            The borders of a better land
                            Than our own Indiana."
                        
                        Benjamin S. Parker, of all the poets discovered in Indiana by Coggeshall,
                            acquired the greatest skill in versification, and wrote most
                            comprehensively of the pioneer life. He was born on a farm near New
                            Castle (1833), and is one, at least, to whom the phrase "racy
                            of the soil" needs no explanation. He lived in a log-cabin,
                            performing the hardest farm labor, and long observation of life at the
                            West made him an authority in matters of customs and dialect. His volume
                            "The Cabin in the Clearing" (1887) contains many poems
                            in which the trials of the earlier settlers are graphically depicted,
                            and it was his right, as one who had aided in the rough work of the
                            pioneers, to urge the new generations to use worthily the opportunities
                                 which they inherited. Of the fauna
                            and flora of his own woodlands Mr. Parker became the especial celebrant.
                            The following lines from one of his most graceful pieces are
                            characteristic of his happiest moods:
                        
                            "I had a dream of other days,
                            In golden luxury waved the wheat;
                            In tangled greenness shook the maize;
                            The squirrels ran with nimble feet,
                            And in and out among the trees
                            The hangbird darted like a flame;
                            The cat-bird piped his melodies,
                            Purloining every warbler's fame:
                            And then I heard triumphal song,
                            "Tis morning and the days are long."
                        
                        Mr. Parker felt, more than any other poet of the Ohio Valley, the
                            grandeur of the vast woodlands as the pioneers found them, and he has
                            touched upon it constantly in his writings. He lived for several years
                            in Canada, as a consular officer, and wrote a series of poems under
                            Northern influences; but he has been most fortunate in subjects derived
                            from home experiences. He is a connecting link between the earliest
                            Indiana writers and their successors, and he has been one of the
                            humblest  and most devoted and sincere of
                            all the servants of literature in his State.
                    
                    
                        II. Forceythe Willson
                        
                        It is an abrupt transition from these pioneers of poesy to Forceythe
                            Willson, the only Indiana poet who ever came in contact with the New
                            England group. Emerson, in the preface to his
                            "Parnassus" (1874), says, "I have inserted
                            only one of the remarkable poems of Forceythe Willson, a young Wisconsin
                            poet of extraordinary promise, who died very soon after this was
                            written." The poem chosen was "In State."
                            This placing of Willson in Wisconsin is, as Piatt says in his eloquent
                            sketch of the poet,1 rather needless, for he was never connected
                            with Wisconsin in any way. He was born at Genesee Falls, New York, April
                            10, 1837. In 1846 his father removed to Kentucky, and in 1852 to New
                            Albany. Willson spent about a year at Antioch College, in Ohio, and went
                            afterward to Harvard, but left in his sophomore year, owing to ill
                            health. His home was in Indiana  from 1852
                            to 1864. He wrote his best poems, indeed the greater part of his slender
                            product, at New Albany, and his residence there, in immediate contact
                            with the seat of war, colored his distinctive work. He married, in 1863,
                            Elizabeth Conwell Smith, whom he had met the preceding year at New
                            Albany, and whose literary gifts created a bond of sympathy between
                            them. They removed shortly to Cambridge, Massachusetts, where one of
                            Willson's brothers was in school. He purchased a house on the
                            Mount Auburn road, near Lowell's home, with an outlook on the
                            Charles River. James R. Gilmore (Edmund Kirke) was his neighbor and saw
                            much of him at Cambridge. He wrote, in 1895, his recollections,
                            testifying to Willson's unusual qualities, and giving this
                            description of his personal appearance:
                                1
                                
                                    Atlantic Monthly, Vol. 35.
                            
                        
                        "Take him, all in all, he was the most lovable man I ever knew;
                            and as a mere specimen of physical manhood he was a joy to look at. A
                            little above the medium height, he was perfectly proportioned and of a
                            sinewy, symmetrical figure. His hair was raven black, wavy, and glossy
                            as satin. His skin was a light olive, slightly tinged with red, and his
                            features were regular, somewhat prominent, and exceedingly  flexible, showing an organization of a
                            highly sensitive character. But his eyes were what riveted the
                            observer's attention. Mr. Longfellow told me they were the
                            finest type of the Oriental, but I never saw eyes Eastern or Western to
                            compare with them in luminous power. They were full, large, and dark,
                            with overhanging lashes; but for the life of me I cannot tell their
                            precise color. At times they seemed a deep blue, at other times an
                            intense black, and then they were balls of fire, as he was stirred by
                            some strong emotion. They spoke the ready language of a deep, strong,
                            fiery, yet chastened, nature as it was moved by love, joy, sorrow or
                                indignation."1
                            
                                1
                                Indianapolis News, March 2, 1895.
                            
                        
                        Piatt remarks upon his "Oriental look and manner," and
                            all who knew him were impressed by his distinguished appearance and
                            grave courtesy. In 1858 New Albany became interested in spiritualism.
                            Willson fell under the spell and began a study of the subject. Piatt
                            says that Willson "soon abandoned the professors, but retained
                            until his death a serious spiritual theory or faith of his own. He
                            believed and he was absolutely honest and sincere, I am sure, in his
                            faith that the spirits of the dead could, and at times do, have
                            communication with the living."
                        Willson seems not to have had an active occupation at any time. His
                            father had been successful  in business,
                            and dying at New Albany in 1859, left a comfortable fortune to his
                            children. The poet lived by himself for a number of years, at New
                            Albany, in a small house where he surrounded himself with books and led
                            the life of a student. Louisville is directly across the Ohio from New
                            Albany, and Willson was known to a few of the literary people on the
                            Kentucky side, particularly to Prentice. The approach of the Civil War
                            aroused in him a deep interest in its great issues, and he wrote
                            editorials in support of the Union cause for Prentice's Journal. He began in the first year of the war, and
                            concluded later, his poem "In State," which, in spite
                            of its occasional vagueness and its despairing view of the political
                            situation, is written in an effective stanza and is splendidly
                            imaginative. He gloomily assumed that the nation was deadhence his
                            personification of it as a prone figure lying "in
                            state," and he brings the rulers of Europe to look upon it,
                        
                            "The winds have tied the drifted snow
                            Around the face and chin; and lo,
                            The sceptred giants come and go
                            And shake their shadowy crowns and say: 'We
                            always feared it would be so!'"
                        
                        
                        There is hardly a stanza in the poem that does not contain some striking
                            image. It moves on in the mournful cadence of a miserere:
                        
                            "The Sisterhood that was so sweet,
                            The Starry System sphered complete,
                            Which the mazed Orient used to greet,
                            The Four and Thirty fallen Stars glimmer and
                            glitter at her feet."
                        
                        He published, January 1, 1863, as a carrier's address in the
                            Louisville Journal, "The Old
                            Sergeant," which Piatt believed to have been "the
                            transcript of a real history, none of the names in it being fictitious,
                            and the story being reported as exactly as possible from the lips of a
                            Federal assistant surgeon named Austin, with whom Willson was acquainted
                            at New Albany." The poem appeared anonymously, and for some
                            reason, which was never explained, Willson seemed reluctant at first to
                            admit its authorship. It attracted wide attention. Gilmore relates that
                            early in 1863, in the office of the Atlantic Monthly,
                            he met Dr. Holmes, who held in his hand a copy of the Louisville Journal, containing "The Old
                            Sergeant." "Read that," said he,
                            "and tell me if it's not the finest thing since the
                                 war began. Sit down and read it here;
                            you might lose it if I let you take it away." The ballad is
                            found in "The Old Sergeant and Other Poems" (1867). It
                            is a vivid narrative of sustained power and interest, deriving strength
                            from the earnestness of the recital and the simple language, sometimes
                            descending to army slang, of the soldier. The poem is historically
                            accurate and is a fine celebration of the battle of Shiloh:
                        
                            "There was where Lew Wallace showed them he was of the
                                canny kin.
                            There was where old Nelson thundered, and where Rousseau waded
                                in;
                            There McCook sent em to breakfast, and we all began to win
                            There was where the grapeshot took me, just as we began to win.
                            "Now, a shroud of snow and silence over everything was
                                spread;
                            And but for this old blue mantle and the old hat on my head,
                            I should not have even doubted, to this moment, I was dead
                            For my footsteps were as silent as the snow upon the
                                dead!"
                        
                        There is a suggestion of Poe, whom Willson greatly admired, in the
                            repetition, with slight  variation, of the
                            third line of the stanza; but such points Willson always considered
                            carefully. He was certainly not servilely imitative, and he is an
                            ungenerous critic who would pick flaws in a poem that is so fine as a
                            whole. "The Old Sergeant" is entitled to a place with
                            the best poems of the war with Mrs. Howe's "Battle
                            Hymn," Brownell's stirring pieces, Will H.
                            Thompson's "High Tide at Gettysburg," and
                            Ticknor's "Little Giffen." These stand apart
                            from Lowell's "Commemoration Ode" and similar
                            poems, which are civic rather than military. In "The Rhyme of
                            the Master's Mate," Willson turned again to the
                            heroic, and while the poem is less artistic than "The Old
                            Sergeant," it has a swing and a stroke that fit his theme well.
                            His volume contains a number of mystical pieces, colored by his belief
                            in spiritualism, and a few lyrics, as "The Estray" and
                            "Autumn Song," which have an elusive charm and
                            increase admiration for his talents. Will son was emphatically a
                            masculine character. In literature and in life he liked what he called
                            "muscle," and he certainly showed a sinewy grasp in
                            his best poems. It is related  that once
                            during the war he organized, and armed at his own expense, a home guard
                            to protect New Albany in a dangerous crisis, and at other times he
                            displayed great personal courage. If it had not been for his ill health
                            he would undoubtedly have enlisted.
                        Willson was not immediately identified at Cambridge as the author of
                            "The Old Sergeant." As Dr. Holmes said after
                            Willson's death, "He came among us as softly and
                            silently as a bird drops into his nest," and it was not like
                            him to call attention to his own performances. After the death of his
                            wife and infant child, October 13, 1864, Willson was often at
                            Gilmore's house, where he first saw Emerson. Gilmore relates
                            that he returned home one day from Boston to find Lowell lying at full
                            length on a lounge in the library, in animated conversation with
                            Willson. On this occasion an incident occurred illustrative of
                            Willson's gift of "second sight." Long-fellow
                            was mentioned in the conversation, and Willson remarked that the poet
                            would be there shortly. No one had an intimation of the visit, but
                            Willson described the route that Longfellow  was then following toward the house; and when the poet presently
                            arrived, he affirmed the statement of his itinerary as Willson had given
                            it. Willson's interest in life ended with the death of his
                            wife, whose few poems he published privately. She is remembered at New
                            Albany as a girl of great beauty and relinement.
                        Willson left Cambridge in the fall of 1866 for New Albany. While there he
                            suffered hemorrhages of the lungs and was ill for a month. He never
                            regained his strength, and his death occurred February 2, 1867, at
                            Alfred, New York. His convictions as to spiritualism grew firmer after
                            his wife's death, and toward the last, so one of his brothers
                            wrote, "his wife and child seemed to be with him constantly,
                            and he talked to them in a low voice." He was buried at Laurel,
                            the home of Mrs. Willson's family, in the White Water Valley.
                            His wife and child lie in one grave beside him. The quiet hilltop
                            cemetery commands a view of one of the loveliest landscapes in Indiana,
                            and it is fitly touched with something of the peace, strength, and
                            beauty that are associated with Willson's name.
                    
                    
                    
                        III. Later Poets
                        
                        Willson marked the beginning of better things, and a livelier fancy and a
                            keener critical spirit is henceforward observablein the writings of a
                            veteran like Parker, and in the new company of writers that was forming.
                            The Civil War had profoundly moved the Central States, and Indiana had
                            perhaps felt it more than her neighbors. Willson had lifted his voice
                            for the Union while the war cloud still lay upon the land, and the
                            Thompson brothers spoke for the South from Indiana soil on the arrival
                            of the era of better feeling. Ben D. House, who had served in the
                            Federal armies, wrote with truth and spirit. He ran away from his home
                            in Vermont when he was seventeen, and entered the army from
                            Massachusetts. He saw hard service, and received wounds which were a
                            constant menace for the remainder of his life. He was mustered out
                            finally at Indianapolis, and lived there almost continuously until his
                            death in 1887. His idiosyncrasies and affections were many, and included
                            the wearing of a great cloak, in which he sombrely wrapped  himself in cold weather. His poems were
                            printed privately by his friends in 1892. He had fair luck with the
                            sonnet, and wrote, on the occasion of Grant's death,
                            "Appomattox," which follows:
                        
                            "To peace-white ashes sunk war's lurid flame;
                            The drums had ceased to growl, and died away
                            The bark of guns, where fronting armies lay,
                            And for the day the dogs of war were tame,
                            And resting on the field of blood-fought fame,
                            For peace at last o'er horrid war held
                                sway
                            On her won field, a score of years to-day,
                            Where to her champion forth a white flag came.
                            O nation's chief, thine eyes have seen again
                            A whiter flag come forth to summon thee
                            Than that pale scarf which gleamed above war's stain,
                            To parley o'er the end of its red reign
                            The truce of God that sets from battle free
                            Thy dauntless soul, and thy worn life from pain."
                        
                        Lee O. Harris, a native of Pennsylvania (1839), removed to the State in
                            1852, and was an Indiana soldier in the Civil War. His verse, as
                            collected in "Interludes" (1893), shows little of the
                            military feeling, but is strongly domestic, a forerunner of the work of
                            Mr. Riley, whose teacher Mr. Harris had been at Greenfield.
                        Dan L. Paine, an Indianapolis journalist 
                            (18301895), possessed a sound taste, and his occasional pieces were well
                            executed. He wrote an elegy on the death of his friend and
                            fellow-journalist, George C. Harding, which is a meditation on the
                            courage of such spirits:
                        
                            "On Freedom's heights they stand as
                                sentinels,
                            Brave tropic suns, delve in earth's
                                deepest caves,
                            And climb the ladder of the parallels
                            To sleep in icy graves."
                        
                        Such felicities were not uncommon with him. He was the friend and helpful
                            critic of all the younger Indiana writers, and literary reputations have
                            been created from slighter talents than his. His poems were collected
                            privately, under the title "Club Moss" (1890).
                        So far nearly every name identified with the literary impulse in Indiana
                            has been met south of a line drawn across the State at Crawfordsville;
                            but Evaleen Stein carried it farther north, to Lafayette. Miss
                            Stein's verse illustrates happily the growing emancipation of
                            the younger generation of Western poets from bare didacticism, and an
                            escape from the landscape of tradition. She finds her subjects in
                            nature, and draws pictures for the 
                            pleasure of it, and not with the expectation of tacking a moral to the
                            frame. Earnestness and conviction characterize her verses, and there is
                            often a kind of exultance in the note when she sings of the rough hill
                            pastures or the marshes and bayous that invite her study. She has
                            something of Thoreau's genius for details, and her volume
                            "One Way to the Woods" (1897) is an accurate calendar
                            of the moods of nature. Her work marks really a new generation, the
                            change of fashion, and the passing of the ante-bellum poets of the
                            region. Twenty years earlier no Ohio Valley poet would have explored a
                            bayou, or could have written of it so musically as Miss Stein:
                        
                            "Ah, surely none would ever guess
                            That through that tangled wilderness,
                            Through those far forest depths remote,
                            Lay any smallest path, much less
                            A way wherein to guide a boat!"
                        
                        A small volume of the poems of M. Genevieve Todd (18631896), of the order
                            of Sisters of Providence, was published after her death. They are wholly
                            devotional, and are marked by elevation of spirit wedded to correct  taste. Sister Mary Genevieve was born at
                            Vevay, of Protestant parents, and died at the convent of St.
                            Mary's of the Woods near Terre Haute. Albion Fellows Bacon,
                            Mrs. D. M. Jordan, Richard Lew Dawson, and William R. Williams have also
                            been creditable contributors to the Hoosier anthology.
                        Indiana offers, on the whole, a fair field for poets. The prevailing note
                            of the landscape is tranquillity. There is hardly a spot in the State
                            that touches the imagination with a sense of power or grandeur, and yet
                            there are countless scenes of quiet beauty. The Wabash gathers breadth
                            and grace as it flows southward. Long curves here and there give to the
                            eye the illusion of a chain of lakes, and the river's valley is
                            a rich garden. The Tippecanoe is another beautiful river, famous among
                            fishermen, and there are a number of charming lakes in the northern part
                            of the State. The Kankakee marsh was long haunted by the migrant wild
                            birds, and in recent years a wild goose was found there with the piece
                            of an Eskimo arrow, made of reindeer bone, through its breast. Poets and
                                 novelists have found inspiration in
                            the Kankakee. Maurice Thompson and Evaleen Stein have celebrated the
                            region in song; and there is a tradition that the manuscript of
                            "Ben Hur" visited both the Kankakee and Lake
                            Maxinkuckee at certain crises in its preparation. The possibilities of
                            mixed forests are nowhere more happily illustrated than in Indiana,
                            whether in the earliest wistful days of spring or in the full glory of
                            autumn. The beech and the elm, the maple, the hickory and the walnut,
                            and the humbler sassafras and pawpaw are companions of a royal order of
                            forestry, from which the sycamorethe self-constituted guardian of rivers
                            and creeksis excluded by nature's decree confirmed by
                            man's preference. The variety of cereals that may be grown
                            saves the tilled areas from monotony. There are no vast plains of corn
                            or wheat as in Kansas or the Dakotas, but the corn ripens between wheat
                            stubble on one hand, and green pastures or remnants of woodland on the
                            other. The transitional seasons bring more of delight to the senses than
                            the full measure of winter  and summer,
                            and have for the observer constant novelty and change. There are
                            qualities in the spring of the Ohio Valleyqualities of sweetness and
                            wistfulness that are peculiar to the region; and when the winds are all
                            from the south, and the winter wheat is brilliant in the fields; when
                            the sap sings beneath the rough bark of the old forest trees, and the
                            young orchards are a blur of pink and white, spirits are abroad there
                            with messages for the sons of men.
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
            
                INDEX
                
                    Abbott, Lyman, 215.
                    Ade, George, 242.
                    "Artemus Ward," 159.
                    Bacon, Albion Fellows, 269.
                    Bagehot, Walter, 158, 178.
                    Banta, D. D., 75, 236.
                    Baptists, organized first church, 67.
                    Beales, at New Harmony, 132.
                    Beecher, Henry Ward, 18, 83, 250.
                    Beecher, Mrs. H. W., 35, 56.
                    "Ben Hur," how written, 189, 193; Ms. of, 270.
                    Benjamin, Park, 19.
                    Bennett, Emerson, 248.
                    Bernard, Duke of Saxe-Weimar, 113, 115.
                    Biddle, Horace P., 248, 251.
                    Blackford, Isaac, 22, 83.
                    Blake family, 18.
                    Blake, James, 83.
                    Bolton, Nathaniel, 253.
                    Bolton, Sarah T., 253.
                    Boone, Richard G., 234.
                    Booth, Newton, 16.
                    Brook Farm, Robert Owen visits, 123.
                    Brookville, 12.
                    Brotherton, Alice Williams, 13.
                    Brown, Admiral George, 212.
                    Brown, Demarchus C., 242.
                    Brown, Paul, at New Harmony, 115, 119.
                    Bull, Ole, 19.
                    Bush, Rev, George, 66.
                    Butler College, 26, 82, 95, 228.
                    Butler, John M., 179.
                    Butler, John Maurice, 179.
                    Butler, Noble, 16, 251.
                    Butler, Noble C., 251.
                    Butler, Ovid, 82.
                    Cambridge, 13.
                    Campbell, Alexander, 123, 238.
                    Carleton, Emma, 243.
                    Carleton, Will, 172.
                    Carrington, H. B., 179.
                    Cartwright, Peter, 67.
                    Catherwood, Mary Hartwell, 215.
                    Centerville, 12.
                    
                        Century Magazine, 14.
                    Channing, W. E., 248.
                    Channing, W. H., 248.
                    Chase, W. M., 12.
                    Child, Lydia Maria, 227.
                    Chitwood, Mary L., 248, 252.
                    "Christian Endeavor," origin of name, 144.
                    
                        Civil Service Chronicle, 26.
                    
                    Clark, George Rogers, 4, 5.
                    Clarke, James Freeman, 248.
                    Coburn, John, 83.
                    Coe family, 18.
                    Coggeshall, W. T., 245, 250, 251.
                    Corydon, 11, 94.
                    Costume at New Harmony, 113.
                    Cox, Millard, 222.
                    
                    Cox, Sandford C., 36.
                    Craig, George, 134.
                    Cranch, C. P., 248.
                    Crawfordsville, 8, 177, 267.
                    Cutter, George W., 252.
                    Dale, David, 102.
                    D'Arusmont, Phiquepal, 105, 114.
                    Dawson, Richard Lew, 269.
                    Dennis, Charles, 28.
                    DePauw University, 68, 77.
                    Dillon, John B., 231, 249.
                    Dooley, A. H., 237.
                    Dransfields, at New Harmony, 132.
                    Dufour, Mrs. A. L. Ruter, 248, 251.
                    Dumont, Mrs. Julia L., 8994, 247, 248.
                    Duncan, Robert, 181.
                    Dunn, Jacob P., 232.
                    Dyer, Rev, Sidney, 250.
                    Eads, James B., 12.
                    Earlham College, 77.
                    Eaton, Arthur Wentworth, 215.
                    Edson, Helen Rockwood, 241.
                    Egan, Maurice Francis, 215.
                    Eggleston, Edward, 8, 17, 51, 79, 89, 91, 133155, 225.
                    Eggleston, George Cary, 134, 224.
                    Eggleston, Guilford, 138.
                    Eggleston, Joseph Cary, 134, 137, 139.
                    Eggleston, Miles, 138, 236.
                    Ellsworth, Henry W., 251.
                    Emerson, R. W., 248, 263.
                    English, William H., 235.
                    Episcopalians, early difficulties of, 65.
                    Everett, Edward, 19.
                    Fauntleroys, at New Harmony 132.
                    Feiba Peveli, 111, 112, 122.
                    Fellenberg, 102, 124.
                    Field, Eugene, 172.
                    Finley, John, 29, 34.
                    Fishback, W. P., 242.
                    Fiske, John, 8.
                    Fletcher, Calvin, 83.
                    Fletcher family, 18.
                    Fletcher, Julia C., 216.
                    Fletcher, Rev, J. C., 216.
                    Flower, Richard, 101.
                    Flowers in churches, 63.
                    Fort Wayne, 13.
                    Foulke, William Dudley, 26, 229.
                    Franklin College, 26, 77.
                    Fretageot, Achilles, 105.
                    Fretageot, Madame, 115, 132.
                    Fuller, Hector, 242.
                    Furman, Lucy S., 216.
                    Gallatin, Albert, 71.
                    Garland, Hamlin, 172.
                    Gillilan, S. W., 243.
                    Gilmore, James R. ("Edmund Kirke"), 257, 260, 263.
                    Goode, Frances E., 155.
                    Goodwin, Rev. T. A., 35.
                    Gordon, Jonathan W., 251.
                    Hadley, John V. 53.
                    Halford, E. W., 237.
                    Hall, Bayard Rush, 73.
                    Hanover College, 77.
                    Harding, George C., 240, 267.
                    Harney, W. W., 250.
                    Harper, Ida Husted, 241.
                    Harris, Leo O., 157, 266.
                    Harrison, Benjamin, 4, 243.
                    Harrison, Christopher, 16.
                    
                    Harrison, W. H., 4, 67, 71.
                    Havens, Rev. James, 67.
                    Hay, John, 16.
                    Hayes, Lewis D., 237.
                    Hayes, President, 190.
                    Henderson, Rev. C. R., 241.
                    Hendricks, William, 76.
                    
                        Henodelphisterian Society, 75.
                    Higginson, T. W., 157.
                    Holland, J. G., 19.
                    Holliday family, 18.
                    Holliday, John H., 26, 237.
                    Holliday, Rev. F. C., 65.
                    Holman, Jesse L., 76.
                    Holmes, O. W., 260, 263.
                    "Hoosier Athens," 177.
                    Hoosier dialect, 4562, 152, 163.
                    Hoosier Fiddle, 41.
                    Hoosier, origin of word, 2936.
                    "Hoosier Schoolmaster," 145.
                    Hoosierdom, extent of, 151.
                    Hoshour, Samuel K., 96, 181.
                    House, Ben D., 265.
                    Hovey, Edmund O., 80.
                    Howard, Tilghman A., 35.
                    Howe, Daniel Wait, 234.
                    Howells, W. D., 246.
                    Howland, John D., 12.
                    Howland, Livingston, 12.
                    Howland, Louis, 26, 237.
                    Indiana: relation to national life, 35: slavery in, 5: foreign and native
                        element, II: political preferences, 26; pioneers, 36, 39; religious
                        influences, 6569; education in, 70; illiteracy in, 81, 87; early poets, 245;
                        landscape of, 36, 219, 269.
                    Indiana University, 26, 7376.
                    Indianapolis, 1720.
                    Indianapolis Literary Club, 19.
                    Ingersoll, Robert G., 189.
                    James, G. P. R., 181.
                    Jennings, Governor, 22.
                    Jewett, Milo Parker, 80.
                    Johnson, Robert Underwood, 13.
                    Jordan, David S., 78.
                    Jordan, Mrs. D. M., 269.
                    Judah, Mary Jameson, 221.
                    Julian, George W., 226, 251.
                    Julian, Isaac H., 248, 251.
                    Ketcham, W. A., 44.
                    Keenan, Henry F., 215.
                    Krout, Caroline V., 212.
                    Kront, Mary H., 212.
                    Lafayette, 14, 267.
                    Lane, Henry S., 180.
                    Lee, John, 202.
                    Lehmanowski, Colonel, 32.
                    Lesueur, Charles A., 104, 106.
                    Lewis, Allen, 26.
                    Lewis, Charles S., 26.
                    Lincoln, Abraham, 38, 125, 152.
                    Lodge, Harriett Newell, 241.
                    Longfellow, H. W., 258, 263.
                    Lowell, J. R., 160, 172, 263.
                    Lynching, 43.
                    Maclure, William, 104, 105, 115, 129.
                    McCulloch, Hugh, 14.
                    McCutcheon, John T., 242.
                    McDonald, Joseph E., 179.
                    McGinnis, Gen, George F., 184.
                    Macluria, 111, 112, 122.
                    Macdonald, Donald, 105, 107.
                    Madison, 11, 155.
                    Major, Charles, 223.
                    
                    "Mark Twain," 164.
                    Martindale, E. B., 160.
                    Mason, A. L., 242.
                    Matthews, Claude, 21.
                    Matthews, G. C., 237.
                    Matthews, James Newton, 215.
                    Meredith, Solomon, 83.
                    Merrill family, 18.
                    Merrill, Miss Catharine, 94.
                    Merrill, Samuel, 94.
                    Militia, early, 39.
                    Miller, Joaquin, 215.
                    Millerites, 148.
                    Mills, Caleb, 79, 80, 8588.
                    Moody, Martha Livingstone, 241.
                    Morris family, 18.
                    Morrison, John 1., 16.
                    Morton, Oliver P., 22, 229.
                    Morton, Oliver T., 26, 229.
                    Mount, James A., 21.
                    Murphy, Dr. Edward, 130.
                    Nadal, E. S., 204, 216.
                    Nadal, Rev. Bernard H., 216.
                    Nashoba, 105.
                    Neef, Joseph, 105, 106.
                    Neef, Madame, 115.
                    Nelson, Thomas 11., 15.
                    New Albany, 140, 143, 256, 257, 258, 259.
                    New Harmony, 21, 98132.
                    
                        New Harmony Disseminator, 128.
                    
                        New Harmony Gazette, 111, 118, 128.
                    Nicholas, Anna, 220, 237.
                    Nichols, Rebecca S., 248, 250, 252.
                    Noble, Harriet, 241.
                    North Carolina, influence of, in dialect, 52.
                    Notre Dame University, 77, 215.
                    Oliphant, Laurence, 126.
                    Owen, David Dale, 126.
                    Owen, Richard, 127.
                    Owen, Robert, 99, 101, 103, 104, 110, 115, 121, 122, 123, 124, 131.
                    Owen, Robert Dale, 24, 76, 104, 111, 114, 124, 125.
                    Owen, William, 104, 128.
                    Paine, Dan L., 267.
                    Parker, Benj. S., 56, 249, 254, 265.
                    Parker, Theodore, 19.
                    Peabody, Rev. Ephraim, 248.
                    Pestalozzi, 102, 107.
                    Piatt, John James, 215, 246, 256, 258, 260.
                    Pioneers, books of, 38.
                    Poe, Edgar A., 201.
                    Poetry, characteristics of early Western, 244.
                    "Poor Whites," 8, 44.
                    Posey, Thomas, 21.
                    Prentice, George D., 246, 247, 253.
                    Protestantism, phases of, in Indiana, 64.
                    Rabb, Kate Milner, 241.
                    Ralston, Alexander, 17.
                    Rapp, George, 98101.
                    Rariden, James, 236.
                    Ray family, 18.
                    Reed, Peter Fishe, 249.
                    Reeves, Arthur M., 230.
                    Reid, Whitelaw, 185.
                    Richmond, 13.
                    Ridpath, John Clark, 233.
                    Riley, James Whitcomb, 27, 42, 49, 57, 133, 150176, 217.
                    Riley, Reuben A., 157.
                    Ross, Morris, 273.
                    
                    Salem, 16, 17.
                    Say, Thomas, 104, 106, 115, 128.
                    Scotch-Irish, 7, 51, 65.
                    Sharpe family, 18.
                    Smith, Elizabeth Conwell (Willson), 257.
                    Smith, O. H., 31, 83, 236.
                    Smith, Roswell, 14.
                    Sorin, Father, 64.
                    Stein, Evaleen, 267, 270.
                    Stevenson, R. D., 243.
                    Stoddard, Charles Warren, 215.
                    Sulgrove, Berry, 15, 49, 181, 237.
                    Sullivan, Jeremiah, 17.
                    Swift, Lucius B., 26.
                    Tarkington, Booth, 217221.
                    Taylor, Bayard, 19.
                    Taylor, Dr. H. W., 40, 58.
                    Teal, Angelina, 241.
                    Terre Haute, 14, 215.
                    Terrell, Rev. William, 140.
                    Test, John, 180, 236.
                    Thomas, Edith M., 159.
                    Thompson, Maurice, 27, 199211, 270.
                    Thompson, Richard W., 14, 76, 83.
                    Thompson, Will H., 202, 211.
                    Thurston, Laura M., 252.
                    Todd, M. Genevieve, 268.
                    Troost, Gerard, 105, 106, 115.
                    Tuttle, Joseph F., 80.
                    Unitarians, in Ohio Valley, 248.
                    Upfold, Bishop, 63.
                    Venable, W. H., 249.
                    Very, Jones 248.
                    Vevay, 89, 134.
                    Vickroy, Louise E., 249.
                    Vincennes, 5, 11.
                    Vincennes University, 72.
                    Voorhees, Daniel W., 15.
                    Wabash College, 77, 80, 88, 178, 211.
                    Wallace, David, 22, 76, 180, 236.
                    Wallace, General Lew, 22, 56, 180199, 261.
                    Wallace, Mrs. Lew, 198.
                    Wallace, William Ross, 250.
                    Warren, Josiah, 129.
                    Wheatcrofts, at New Harmony, 132.
                    Whitcomb, Governor, 22.
                    Whitecaps, 43.
                    Whitwell, Stedman, 105.
                    Wickersham, James A., 222.
                    Willard, Governor, 22.
                    Williams, Charles R., 237, 242.
                    Williams, Henry M., 26.
                    Williams, James D., 20.
                    Williams, Jesse Lynch, 14.
                    Williams, W. R., 269.
                    Willson, Forceythe, 256264.
                    Wilson, W. L., 243.
                    Wilstach, J. A., 241.
                    Woodlands, influence of on pioneers, 36.
                    Woods, Rev. Aaron, 33.
                    Woollen, William Wesley, 236.
                    Wright, Frances (D'Arusmont), 105, 124.
                    Wright, Joseph A., 22, 31.
                    Yandes family, 18.
                
            
            
            
            
                NATIONAL STUDIES IN AMERICAN LETTERS
                
                    Old Cambridge
                    BY THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON
                    
                        Cloth. 12mo. Price $1.25
                    
                    ". . . Some charmingly reminiscent pages, having for their subject
                        the three authors most widely associated with Old Cambridge,Holmes,
                        Longfellow, and Lowell; and their pleasant gossip makes up the major part of
                        the volume, which is altogether a most enjoyable and valuable
                            one."Philadelphia Evening Telegraph.
                    
                    "It is just the sort of book that one would expect from the author,
                        graceful in form, abounding in the genuine atmosphere of the old university
                        town, full of pleasant personal anecdotes and reminiscences of the Cambridge
                        of forty or fifty years ago. Many great figures pass across the stage, with
                        nearly all of whom Colonel Higginson was personally acquainted; and this
                        intimacy gives the book a charming flavor."Brooklyn
                            Life.
                    
                    "The book contains material to be had nowhere else, for it is a
                        commentary on the side history of a great epoch in American letters, written
                        by one who had a place in it."San Francisco
                        Argonaut.
                    
                    "What he has to tell will be interesting to every person who honors
                        New England and sets store by her literature. The book is steeped in the
                        Attic dew of which the Cambridge cicadas were fond; it has a smack of
                        ambrosia,American ambrosia,and its leaves rustle with the unmistakable
                        Parnassian suggestiona Puritan Parnassus to be sure. . . . The Cambridge he
                        dwells upon is the Cambridge of the Boston circle of poets, philosophers,
                        politicians, reformers, scholars, statesmen, preachers, and divine cranks.
                        He sketches everything and everybody freely, swiftly, and
                            lightly."Independent
                    
                
            
            
            
                Brook Farm
                
                    ITS MEMBERS, SCHOLARS, AND VISITORS
                    By LINDSAY SWIFT
                    
                        Cloth. 16mo. Price $1.25
                    
                    
                        CONTENTS
                        THE TRANSCENDENTAL CLUBBROOK FARMTHE SCHOOL AND ITS SCHOLARSTHE
                            MEMBERSTHE VISITORSTHE CLOSING PERIODBIBLIOGRAPHYINDEX
                        "Mr. Swift . . . deals with the experimenters rather than with
                            the experiments . . . and with the influence of the life at Brook Farm
                            upon the individuality of its members."The Mail
                                and Express.
                        
                        "Mr. Lindsay Swift takes up and describes very amply the most
                            romantic, interesting, and far-reaching movement in the history of
                            American literaturethe story of Brook Farm."Times
                                Saturday Review.
                        
                        "The book has a value apart from its delineation of Brook Farm.
                            . . . It ought to be widely and carefully read, especially where . . .
                            socialistic notions are gaining many adherents, for it will aid the
                            young enthusiast to define what may be and what cannot be for a very
                            long century at least."The Outlook.
                        
                        THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 66 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK
                    
                
            
        
    
