
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Riley, James Whitcomb, 1849-1916. Pipes O' Pan at Zekesbury: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2379
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		
			
			
				Pipes O' Pan at Zekesbury
				
			
			
			
				Books by James Whitcomb Riley
				
					NEGHBORLY POEMS
					SKETCHES IN PROSE WITH INTERLUDING VERSES AFTERWHILES
					PIPES O' PAN AT ZEKESBURY (Prose and Verse)
					RHYMES OF CHILDHOOD
					THE FLYING ISLANDS OF THE NIGHT
					GREEN FIELDS AND RUNNING BROOKS
					ARMAZINDY
					A CHILD-WORLD
					HOME-FOLKS
					HIS PA'S ROMANCE (Portrait by Clay)
				
				
					GREENFIELD EDITION
					Sold only in sets. Eleven volumes uniformly bound in sage-green cloth, gilt top
						$13.50
					The same in half-calf 27.00
				
				
					OLD-FASHIONED ROSES (English Edition)
					THE GOLDEN YEAR (English Edition)
					POEMS HERE AT HOME
					RUBIYT OF DOC SIFERS
					THE BOOK OF JOYOUS CHILDREN
					RIILEY CHILD-RHYSIES (Pictures by Vawter)
					RILEY LOVE-LYRICS (Pictures by Dyer)
					RILEY FARM-RHYMES (Pictures by Vawter)
					RILEY SONGS O' CHEER (Picture by Vawter)
					AN OLD SWEETHEART OF MINE (Pictures by Christy)
					OUT TO OLD AUNT MARY'S (Pictures by Christy)
					A DEFECTIVE SANTA CLAUS (Forty Pictures by Relyea and Vawte)
				
			
			
			
				Frontispiece
				
				
			
			
			
				
					PIPES O' PAN AT ZEKESBURY
				
				
					JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY
				
				
					INDIANAPOLIS
					THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY PUBLISHERS
				
			
			
			
				Verso
				COPYRIGHT 1888 BY
					 JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY
				PRESS OF BRAUNWORTH & CO. BOOKBINDERS AND PRINTERS
					BROOKLYN, N. Y.
			
			
			
				Dedication
				
					TO MY BROTHER JOHN A. RILEY WITH MANY MEMORIES OF THE
						OLD HOME
				
			
			
			
				CONTENTS
				
					AT ZEKESBURY 13
						
				
				DOWN AROUND THE RIVER POEMS
				
					DOWN AROUND THE RIVER
						37
						
							KNEELING WITH HERRICK
								39
								
							ROMANCIN'
								40
								
							HAS SHE FORGOTTEN
								43
								
							A' OLD PLAYED-OUT
									SONG
								45
								
							THE LOST PATH
								47
								
							THE LITTLE TINY KICKSHAW
								48
								
							HIS MOTHER
								49
								
							KISSING THE ROD
								50
								
							HOW IT HAPPENED
								51
								
							BABYHOOD
								53
								
							THE DAYS GONE BY
								54
								
						
					MRS. MILLER 57
						
				
				RHYMES OF RAINY DAYS
				
					THE TREE-TOAD
						79
						
						
							A WORN-OUT PENCIL
								80
								
							THE STEPMOTHER
								82
								
							THE RAIN
								83
								
							THE LEGEND GLORIFIED
								84
								
							WHUR MOTHER IS
								85
								
							OLD MAN'S NURSERY
									RHYME
								86
								
							THREE DEAD FRIENDS
								88
								
							IN BOHEMIA
								91
								
							IN THE DARK
								93
								
							WET-WEATHER TALK
								94
								
							WHERE SHALL WE LAND
								96
								
						
					
					THE CHAMPION CHECKER-PLAYER OF AMERIKY
						101
						
				
				SWEET-KNOT AND GALAMUS
				
					AN OLD SWEETHEART
						117
						
						
							MARTHY ELLEN
								119
								
							MOON-DEOWNED
								121
								
							LONG AFORE HE KNOWED
								122
								
							DEAR HANDS
								124
								
							THIS MAN JONES
								125
								
							TO MY GOOD MASTER
								127
								
							WHEN THE GREEN GITS
									BACK
								128
								
							AT BROAD RIPPLE
								129
								
							WHEN OLD JACK DIED
								130
								
							DOC SIFERS
								132
								
							AT NOONAND MIDNIGHT
								135
								
						
					A WILD IRISHMAN 139
						
				
				RAGWEED AND FENNEL
				
					WHEN MY DREAMS COME TRUE
						163
						
						
							A DOS'T o' BLUES
								164
								
							THE BAT
								166
								
							THE WAY IT WUZ
								167
								
							THE DRUM
								170
								
							TOM JOHNSON'S QUIT
								172
								
							LULLABY
								174
								
							IN THE SOUTH
								175
								
							THE OLD HOME BY THE
									MILL
								177
								
							A LEAVE TAKING
								179
								
							WAIT FOR THE MORNING
								180
								
							WHEN JUNE IS HERE
								181
								
						
					THE GILDED ROLL 185
						
				
			
		
		
			
			
				Pipes O' Pan at Zekesbury
				
				
					
						THE PIPES OF PAN! Not idler now are they
						Than when their cunning fashioner first blew
						The pith of music from them: Yet for you
						And me their notes are blown in many a way
						Lost in our murmurings for that old day
						That fared so well without us.Waken to
						The pipings here at hand:The clear halloo
						Of truant-voices, and the roundelay
						The waters warble in the solitude
						Of blooming thickets, where the robin's breast
						Sends up such ecstacy o'er dale and dell,
						Each tree top answers, till in all the wood
						There lingers not one squirrel in his nest
						Whetting his hunger on an empty shell.
					
				
				
				
					AT ZEKESBURY.
					
						THE little town, as I recall it, was of just enough dignity and dearth
						of the same to be an ordinary county seat in Indiana" The Grand Old Hoosier
						State," as it was used to being howlingly referred to by the forensic stump orator
						from the old stand in the court-house yarda political campaign being the wildest delight
						that Zekesbury might ever hope to call its own.
					Through years the fitful happenings of the town and its vicinity went on the samethe
						same! Annually about one circus ventured in, and vanished, and was gone, even as a
						passing trumpet-blast; the usual rainy-season swelled the "Crick," the
						driftage choking at "the covered bridge," and backing water till the old road
						looked amphibious; and crowds of curious townsfolk straggled down to look upon the
						watery wonder, and lean awe-struck above it, and spit in it, and turn mutely home
						again.
					The usual formula of incidents peculiar to an uneventful town and its vicinity: The
						countryman from "Jessup's Crossing," with the  cornstalk coffin-measure, loped into town, his steaming little gray-and-red-flecked
						"roadster" gurgitating, as it were, with that mysterious utterance that ever
						has commanded and ever must evoke the wonder and bewilderment of every boy. The
						small-pox rumor became prevalent betimes, and the subtle aroma of the assafoetida-bag
						permeated the graded schools "from turret to foundation-stone;" the still
						recurring expos of the poor-house management; the farm-hand, with the scythe across his
						shoulder, struck dead by lightning; the long-drawn quarrel between the rival editors
						culminating in one of them assaulting the other with a "sidestick," and the
						other kicking the one down stairs and thenceward ad libitum; the
						tramp, suppositiously stealing a ride, found dead on the railroad; the grand jury
						returning a sensational indictment against a bar-tender non est; the
						Temperance outbreak; the "Revival; "the Church Festival; and the "Free
						Lectures on Phrenology, and Marvels of Mesmerism," at the town hall. It was during
						the time of the last-mentioned sensation, and directly through this scientific
						investigation, that I came upon two of the town's most remarkable characters. And
						however meager my outline of them may prove, my material for the sketch is most accurate
						in every detail,  and no deviation from the cold facts of
						the case shall influence any line of my report.
					For some years prior to this odd experience I had been connected with a daily paper at
						the state capitol; and latterly a prolonged session of the legislature, where I
						specially reported, having told threateningly upon my health, I took both the advantage
						of a brief vacation, and the invitation of a young bachelor Senator, to get out of the
						city for awhile, and bask my respiratory organs in the revivifying rural air of
						Zekesburythe home of my new friend.
					"It 'll pay you to get out here," he said, cordially, meeting me at the
						little station, "and I'm glad you've come, for you 'll find no end
						of odd characters to amuse you." And under the very pleasant sponsorship of my
						senatorial friend, I was placed at once on genial terms with half the citizens of the
						little townfrom the shirt-sleeved nabob of the county office to the droll wag of the
						favorite loafing placethe rules and by-laws of which resort, by the way, being rudely
						charcoaled on the wall above the cutter's bench, and somewhat artistically
						culminating in an original dialectic legend which ran thus:
					
						F'rinstance, now what. some folks gite
						To relyin' on their its,
						
						Ten to one they git too smart,
						And spite it all right at the start!
						Feller wants to jest go slow
						And do his thinking' first, you know:
						Ef I can't think up somepin' good,
						I set still and chaw my cood!
					
					And it was at this inviting rendezvous, two or three evenings following my arrival,
						that the general crowd, acting upon the random proposition of one of the boys, rose as a
						man and wended its hilarious way to the town hall.
					"Phrenology," said the little, old, bald-headed lecturer and mesmerist,
						thumbing the egg-shaped head of a young man I remembered to have met that afternoon in
						some law office; "Phrenology," repeated the professor"or rather the term phrenologyis derived from two Greek words signifying mind and discourse; hence we find embodied in
						phrenology-proper, the science of intellectual measurement, together with the capacity
						of intelligent communication of the varying mental forces and their flexibilities, etc.,
						&c. The study, t hen, of phrenology is, to wholly simplify itis, I say, the general
						contemplation of the workings of the mind as made manifest through the certain
						corresponding depressions and protuberances of the human skull, when, of course, in a
						healthy state of action and development,  as we here find
						the conditions exemplified in the subject before us."
					Here the "subject" vaguely smiled.
					"You recognize that mug, don't you?" whispered my friend.
						"It's that coruscating young ass, you know, Hedrickin Cummings'
						officetrying to study law and literature at the same time, and tampering with 'The
						Monster that Annually,' don't you know?where we found the two young students
						scuffling round the office, and smelling of peppermint?Hedrick, you know, and Sweeney.
						Sweeney, the slim chap, with the pallid face, and frog-eyes, and clammy hands! You
						remember I told you 'there was a pair of' em?' Well, they're up to
						something here to-night. Hedrick, there on the stage in front; and Sweeneydon't you
						see?with the gang on the rear seats.
					"Phrenologyagain," continued the lecturer, "is, we may say, a species of
						mental geography, as it were; whichby a study of the skullleads also to a study of the
						brain within, even as geology naturally follows the initial contemplation of the
						earth's surface. The brain, thurfur, or intellectual retort, as we may say,
						natively exerts a molding influence on the skull contour; thurfur is the expert in
						phrenology most readily enabled to accurately locate the multitudinous intellectual
						forces, and  most exactingly estimate, as well, the sequent
						character of each subject submitted to his scrutiny. As, in the example before asa young
						man, doubtless well known in your midst, though, I may say, an entire stranger to
						myselfI venture to disclose some characteristic trends and tendencies, as indicated by
						this phrenological depression and development of the skull-proper, as later we will
						show, through the mesmeric condition, the accuracy of our mental diagnosis."
					Throughout the latter part of this speech my friend nudged me spasmodically, whispering
						something which was jostled out of intelligent utterance by some inward spasm of
						laughter.
					"In this head," said the Professor, straddling his malleable fingers across
						the young man's bumpy brow"In this head we find Ideality largeabnormally
						large, in fact; thurby indicatingtaken in conjunction with a like development of the
						perceptive qualitieslanguage following, as well, in the prominent eyethurby indicating,
						I say, our subject as especially endowed with a love for the beautifulthe sublimethe
						elevatingthe refined and delicatethe lofty and superbin nature, and in all the
						sublimated attributes of the human heart and beatific soul. In fact, we find this young
						man possessed of such  natural gifts as would befit him for
						the exalted career of the sculptor, the actor, the artist, or the poetany ideal calling;
						in fact, any calling but a practical, matter-of-fact vocation; though in poetry he would
						seem to best succeed."
					"Well," said my friend, seriously, "he's feeling
						for the boy!" Then laughingly: "Hedrick has written some
						rhymes for the county papers, and Sweeney once introduced him, at an Old Settlers'
						Meeting, as 'The Best Poet in Center Township,' and never cracked a smile!
						Always after each other that way, but the best friends in the world. Sweeney's strong suit is elocution. He has a native
						ability that way by no means ordinary, but even that gift he abuses and distorts simply
						to produce grotesque, and oftentimes ridiculous effects. For instance, nothing more
						delights him than to 'lothfully ' consent to answer a request, at The Mite
						Society, some evening, for 'an appropriate selection,' and then, with an
						elaborate introduction of the same, and an exalted tribute to the refined genius of the
						author. proceed with a most gruesome rendition of 'Alonzo The Brave and The Fair
						Imogene,' in a way to coagulate the blood and curl the hair of his fair listeners
						with abject terror. Pale as a corpse, you  know, and with
						that cadaverous face, lit with those malignant-looking eyes, his slender figure, and his
						long, thin legs and arms and hands, and his whole diabolical talent and adroitness
						brought into playwhy, I want to say to you, it's enough to scare 'em to death!
						Never a smile from him, though, till he and Hedrick are safe out into the night
						againthen, of course, they hug each other and howl over it like Modocs! But pardon; I
						'm interrupting the lecture. Listen."
					"A lack of continuity, however," continued the Professor, "and an undue
						love of approbation, would, measurably, at least, tend to retard the young man's
						progress toward the consummation of any loftier ambition, I fear; yet as we have
						intimated, if the subject were appropriately educated to the need's demand, he
						could doubtless produce a high order of both prose and poetryespecially the latterthough
						he could very illy bear being laughed at for his pains."
					"He's dead wrong there," said my friend; "Hedrick enjoys being
						laughed at; he's used to itgets fat on it!"
					Is fond of his friends,"continued the Professor and the heartier they are the
						better; might even be convivially inclinedif so temptedbut prudentin a degree,"
						loiteringly  concluded the speaker, as though unable to
						find the exact bump with which to bolster up the last named attribute.
					The subject blushed vividlymy friend's right eyelid dropped, and there was a
						notice-able, though elusive sensation throughout the audience.
					"But!" said the Professor, explosively, "selecting a
						directly opposite subject, in conjunction with the study of the one before us [turning
						to the group at the rear of the stage and beckoning], we may find a newer interest in
						the practical comparison of these subjects side by side." And the Professor pushed
						a very pale young man into position.
					"Sweeney!" whispered my friend, delightedly; "now look out!"
					"In this subject," said the Professor, "we find the
						practical business head. Squarethough smalla trifle light at the base, in fact; but well
						balanced at the important points at least; thoughtful eyeswideawakecraftyquickrestlessa
						policy eye, though not denoting languageunless, perhaps, mere business forms and direct
						statements."
					"Fooled again!" whispered my friend; "and I'm afraid the old man
						will fail to nest out the fact also that Sweeney is the cold-bloodedest guyer on the
						face of the earth, and  with more diabolical resources than
						a prosecuting attorney; the Professor ought to know this, too, by this timefor these
						same two chaps have been visiting the old man in his room at the hotel;that's what
						I was trying to tell you awhile ago. The old sharp thinks he's ' playing'
						the boys, is my idea; but it's the other way, or I lose my guess."
					"Now, under the mesmeric influenceif the two subjects will consent to its
						administration," said the Professor, after some further tedious preamble, "we
						may at once determine the fact of my assertions, as will he proved by their action while
						in this peculiar state." here some apparent remonstrance was met with from both
						subjects, though amicably overcome by the Professor first manipulating the stolid brow
						and pallid front of the imperturbable Sweeneyafter which the same mysterious ordeal was
						lothfully submitted to by Hedrickthough a noticeably longer time was consumed in
						securing his final loss of self-control. At last, however, this curious phenomenon was
						presented, and there before us stood the two swaying figures, the heads dropped back,
						the lifted hands, with thumb and finger-tips pressed lightly together, the eyelids
						languid and half closed, and the features, in appearance, wan and humid.
					
					"Now, sir!" said the Professor, leading the limp Sweeney forward, and
						addressing him in a quick, sharp tone of voice." Now, sir, you area great
						contractorown large factories, and with untold business interests. Just look out there!
						[pointing out across the expectant audience] look there, and see the countless minions
						toiling servilely at your dread mandates. And yetha! ha! See! see!They recognize the
						avaricious greed that would thus grind them in the very dust; they see, alas! they see
						themselves half-clothedhalf-fed, that you may glut your coffers. Half-starved, they
						listen to the wail of wife and babe, and, with eyes upraised in prayer, they see you rolling by in gilded coach, and swathed in silk attire. Butha!
						again! Looklook! they are rising in revolt against you! Speak to them before too late!
						Appeal to themquell them with the promise of the just advance of wages they
						demand!"
					The limp figure of Sweeney took on something of a stately and majestic air. With a
						graceful and commanding gesture of the hand, he advanced a step or two; then, after a
						pause of some seconds duration, in which the lifted face grew paler, as it seemed, and
						the eyes a denser black, he said:
					
					
						"But yesterday I looked away
						O'er happy lands, where sunshine lay
						In golden blots, Inlaid with spots
						Of shade and wild forget-me-nots."
					
					The voice was low, but clear, and ever musical. The Professor started at the strange
						utterance, looked extremely confused, and, as the boisterous crowd criedHear, hear!he
						motioned the subject to continue, with some gasping comment interjected, which, if
						audible, would have run thus:My God! It's an inspirational poem! 
							
								"My head was fair
								With flaxen hair"
							
						 resumed the subject.
					"Yoop-ee!" yelled an irreverent auditor.
					"Silence! silence!" commanded the excited Professor in a hoarse whisper;
						then, turning enthusiastically to the subject-Go on, young man! Go on!-' Thy head was fair with flaxen hair-'"
					
					
						"My head was fair
						With flaxen hair,
						And fragent breezes, faint and rare, And warm with drouth
						From out the south,
						Blew all my curls across my mouth."
					
					
					The speaker's voice, exquisitely modulated, yet resonant as the twang of a harp,
						now seemed of itself to draw and hold each listener; while a certain extravagance of
						gesticulationa fantastic movement of both form and featureseemed very near akin to
						fascination. And on flowed on the curious utterance:
					
						"And, cool and sweet,
						My naked feet
						Found dewy pathways through the wheat;
						And out again
						Where, down the lane,
						The dust was dimpled with the rain."
					
					In the pause following there was a breathlessness almost painful. The poem went on: 
							
								"But yesterday
								I heard the lay
								Of summer birds, when I, as they
								With breast and wing,
								All quivering
								With life and love, could only sing.
							
							
								"My head was leant,
								Where, with It, blent
								A maiden r her instrument;
								While all the night,
								From vale to height,
								Was filled with echoes of delight.
							
							
								"And all our dreams
								Were lit with gleams
								
								Of that lost land of reedy streams,
								Along whose brim
								Forever swim
								Pan's lilies, laughing up at him."
							
						 And still the inspired singer held rapt sway.
					"It is wonderful!" I whispered, under breath.
					"Of course it is!" answered my friend. "But listen; there is
						more:"
					
						"But yesterday! . . . .
						O blooms of May,
						And summer rosesWhere-away? O stars above;
						And lips of love,
						And all the honeyed sweets thereof!
					
					
						"O lad and lass,
						And orchard-pass,
						And briared lane, and daisied grass! O gleam and gloom,
						And woodland bloom,
						And breesy breaths of all perfume!
					
					
						"No more for me
						Or mine shall be
						Thy rapturessave in memory,
						No moreno more
						Till through the Door
						Of Glory gleam the days of yore."
					
					This was the evident conclusion of the remarkable utterance, and the Professor was
						impetuously fluttering his hands about the  subject's
						upward-staring eyes, stroking his temples, and snapping his fingers in his face.
					"Well," said Sweeney, as he stood suddenly awakened, and grinning in an
						idiotic way, "how did the old thing work?" And it was in the consequent
						hilarity and loud and long applause, perhaps, that the Professor was relieved from the
						explanation of this rather astounding phenomenon of the idealistic workings of a purely
						practical brainor, as my impious friend scoffed the incongruity later, in a particularly
						withering allusion, as the "blank-blanked fallacy, don't you know, of staying
						the hunger of a howling mob by feeding 'em on Spring poetry!"
					The tumult of the audience did not cease even with the retirement of Sweeney, and cries
						of "Hedrick! Hedrick! "only subsided with the Professor's high-keyed
						announcement that the subject was even then endeavoring to make himself heard, but could
						not until utter quiet was restored, adding the further appeal that the young man had
						already been a long time under the mesmeric spell, and ought not be so detained for an
						unnecessary period. "See," he concluded, with an assuring wave of the hand
						toward the subject, "see; he is about to address you. Now, quiet!utter quiet, if
						you please!"
					
					"Great heavens!" exclaimed my friend, stiflingly; "Just look at the boy!
						Get onto that position for a poet! Even Sweeney has fled from the sight of
						him!"
					And truly, too, it was a grotesque pose the young man had assumed; not wholly
						ridiculous either, since the dwarfed position he had settled into seemed more a genuine
						physical condition than an affected one. The head, back-tilted, and sunk between the
						shoulders, looked abnormally large, while the features of the face appeared peculiarly
						child-likeespecially the eyeswakeful and wide apart, and very bright, yet very mild and
						very artless; and the drawn and cramped outline of the legs and feet, and of the arms
						and hands, even to the shrunken, slender-looking fingers, all combined to most
						strikingly convey to the pained senses the fragile frame and pixey figure of some
						pitiably afflicted child, unconscious altogether of the pathos of its own deformity.
					"Now, mark the kuss, Horatio!" gasped my friend.
					At first the speaker's voice came very low, and somewhat piping, too, and brokenan
						eerie sort of voice it was, of brittle and erratic timbre and undulant
						inflection. Yet it was beautiful. It had the ring of childhood in it,  though the ring was not pure golden, and at times fell
						echoless. The spirit of its utterance was always clear and pure and
						crisp and cheery as the twitter of a bird, and yet forever ran an undercadence through
						it like a low-pleading prayer. Half garrulously, and like a shallow brook might brawl
						across a shelvy bottom, the rhythmic little changeling thus began:
					
						"I'm thist a little crippled boy, an' never goin' to
							grow
						An' git a great big man at all!'cause Aunty told me so.
						When I was thist a baby onc't I failed out of the bed
						An' got 'The Curv'ture of the Spine''at's what
							the Doctor said.
						I never had no Mother nenfer my Pa wooed away
						An' dass n't come back here no more'cause he was drunk one
							day
						An' stubbed a was In thish-ere town, an' could n't pay his
							fine!
						An' nen my Ma she diedan' I got 'Curv'ture of the
							Spine!'"
					
					A few titterings from the younger people in the audience marked the opening stanza,
						while a certain restlessness, and a changing to more attentive positions seemed the
						general tendency. The old Professor, in the mean-time, had sunk into one of the empty
						chairs. The speaker went on with more gaiety:
					
						"I'm nine years old! An' you can't guess how much I weigh,
							I bet!
						
						Last birthday I weighed thirty-three!An' I weigh thirty yet!
						I'm awful little fer my sizeI'm purt' nigh littler 'an
						Some babies is!an' neighbors all calk me 'The Little Man!'
						An' Doc one time he laughed an' said: 'I 'spect, first
							thing you know,
						You'll have a little spike-tail coat an' travel with a
							show!'
						An' nen I laughedtill I looked round an' Aunty was a-cryin'
						Sometimes she acts like that, 'cause I got 'Curv' ture of the
							Spine!'"
					
					Just in front of me a great broad-shouldered countryman, with a rainy smell in his
						cumbrous overcoat, cleared his throat vehemently, looked startled at the sound, and
						again settled forward, his weedy chin resting on the knuckles of his hands as they
						tightly clutched the seat before him. And it was like being taken into a childish
						confidence as the quaint speech continued:
					
						"I setwhile Aunty's washin'on my little long-leg stool,
						An' watch the little boys an' girls 'a-skippin' by to
							school;
						An' I peek on the winder, an' holler out an' say:
						Who wants to fight The Little Man 'at dares you all todays?
						An' nen the boys climbs on the fence, an' little girls peeks
							through,
						An' they all says: Cause you 're so big, you think we're
							'feared o' you!
						
						An' nen they yell, an' shake their fist at me, like I shake mine
						They 're thist in fun, you know, 'cause I got 'Curv'ture of
							the Spine!'"
					
					"Well," whispered my friend, with rather odd irrelevance, I thought, "of
						course you see through the scheme of the fellows by this time, do n't
						you?"
					"I see nothing," said I, most earnestly, "but a poor little wisp of a
						child that makes me love him so I dare not think of his dying soon, as he surely must!
						There; listen!" And the plaintive gaiety of the homely poem ran on:
					
						"At evening, when the ironin's done, an' Aunty's fixed the
							fire,
						An' filled an' it the lamp, an' trimmed the wick an' turned
							it higher,
						An' fetched the wood all in fer night, an' locked the kitchen
							door,
						An' stuffed the ole crack where the wind blows in up through the floor
						She sets the kittle on the coals, an' bites an' makes the tea,
						An' fries the liver an' the mush, an' cooks a egg fer me;
						An' sometimeswhen I cough so hardher elderberry wine
						Don't go to bad fer little boys with 'Curv'ture of the
							Spine!'"
					
					"Look!" whispered my friend, touching me with his elbow. "Look at the
						Professor!"
					
					"Look at everybody!" said I. And the artless little voice went on again half
						quaveringly:
					
						"But Aunty's all so childish-like on my account, you see,
						I'm 'most afeared she'll be took downan"at's what
							bothers me!
						'Came ef my good ole Aunty ever would git sick an' die,
						I don't know what she'd do in Heaventill I come, by an' by:
						Fee she's so ust to all my ways, an' ever'thing, you know,
						An' no one there like me, to nurse, an' worry over so!-
						'Cause all the little childerns there's so straight an' strong
							n' fine,
						They's nary angel 'bout the place with;'Curvture' of the
							Spincl!'"
					
					The old Professor's face was in his hand-kerchief; so was my friend's in his;
						and so was mine in mine, as even now my pen drops and I reach for it again.
					I half regret joining the mad party that had gathered an hour later in the old
						law-office where these two graceless characters held almost nightly revel, the
						instigators and conniving hosts of a reputed banquet whose menu's
						range confined itself to herrings, or "blind robins," dried beef, and cheese,
						with crackers, gingerbread, and sometimes pie; the whole washed down with anything
						but
					
					
						"Wines that heaven knows when
						Had sucked the fire of some forgotten sun,
						And kept it through a hundred years of gloom
						Still glowing in a heart of ruby."
					
					But the affair was memorable. The old Professor was himself lured into it, and loudest
						in his praise of Hedrick's realistic art; and I yet recall him at the orgie's
						height, excitedly repulsing the continued slurs and insinuations of the clammy-handed
						Sweeney, who, still contending against the old man's fulsome praise of his more
						fortunate rival, at last openly declared that Hedrick was not a poet,
							not a genius, and in no way worthy to be classed in the same breath
						with himself"the gifted but unfortunate Sweeney, sirthe unacknowledged author, sir'y gad, sirof the two poems that
						held you spell-bound tonight!"
				
				
				
					Down Around the River Poems
					
					
						DOWN AROUND THE RIVER.
						
							
								NOON-TIME and June-time, down around the river!
							Have to furse with 'Lizey, Annbut lawzy! fergive her!
							Drives me off the place, and says 'at all 'at she's
								a-wishin',
							Land o' gracious! time 'll come I'll git enough o'
								fishin'!
							Little Dave, a-choppin' wood, never 'pears to notice;
							Don't know where she's hid his hat, er keerin' where his coat
								is,
							Specalatin', more, like, he haint a-goin' to mind me,
							And guess, where, say twelve o'clock, a feller 'd likely find
								me.
						
						
							Noon-time and June-time, down around the river!
							Clean out o' sight o' home, and skulkin' under kivver
							Of the sycamores, jack-oaks, and swamp-ash and ellum
							Idies all so jumbled up, you kin hardly tell'em!
							
								Tired, you know, but lovin' it, and smilin' jest to
								think 'at
							
								Any sweeter tiredness you'd fairly want to drink it.
							Tired o' fishin'tired o'funline out slack and slacker
							All you want in all the world's a little more tobacker!
						
						
							Hungry, but a-hidin' it, er jes' a-not
								a-keerin':
							Kingfisher gittin' up and skootin' out o' hearin';
							Snipes on the t'other side, where the County Ditch is,
							Wadin'up and down the aidge like they'd rolled their britches!
							Old turkle on the root kindo-sotto drappin'
							Intoo th' worter like he do n't know how it happen!
							Worter, shade and all so mixed, don't know which you'd orter
							Say, th' worter in the shaddershadder in the worter!
							
						
						
						
							Somebody hollerin''way around the bend in
							Upper Forkwhere yer eye kin jes' ketch the endin'
							Of the shiney wedge o' wake some muss-rat's a-makin'
							With that pesky nose o' his! Then a sniff o' bacon,
							Corn-bread and 'dock-greensand little Dave a-shinnin'
							'Crost the rocks and mussel-shells, a-limpin' and
								a-grinnin',
							With yer dinner fer ye, and a blessin' from the giver.
							Noon-time and June-time down around the river!
						
					
					
					
						KNEELING WITH HERRICK.
						
							
								DEAR LORD, to Thee my knee is bent
							Give me content
							Full-pleasured with what comes to me,
							What e'er it be:
							An humble roof-a frugal board,
							And simple hoard,
							The wintry fagot piled beside
							The chimney wide,
							While the enwreathing flames up-sprout
							And twine about
							The brazen dogs that guard my hearth
							And household worth:
							Tinge with the ember's ruddy glow
							The rafters low;
							And let the sparks snap with delight,
							As fingers might
							That mark deft measures of some tune
							The children croon:
							Then, with good friends, the rarest few
							Thou holdest true,
							Ranged round about the blaze, to share
							My comfort there,
							Give me to claim the service meet
							That makes each seat
							A place of honor, and each guest
							Loved as the rest.
						
					
					
					
						ROMANCIN'.
						
							
								I'B'EN a-kindo musin', as the feller says, and
								I'm
							About o' the conclusion that they ain't no better time
							When you come to cipher on it, than the times we used to know
							When we swore our first "dog-gone-it" sorto solem'-like and
								low!
						
						
							You git my idy, do you?-Little tads, you understand
							Jes' a wishin' thue and thue you that you on'y was a man.
							Yit here I am, this minute, even forty, to a day,
							And fergittin' all that's in it, wishin' jes' the other
								way!
						
						
							I hain't no hand to lectur' on the times, er dimonstrate
							Whur the trouble is, er hector and domineer with Fate,
							But when I git so flurried, and so pestered-like and blue,
							And so rail owdacious worried, let me tell you what I do!
						
						
							I jes' gee-haw the hosses, and unhook the swingle-tree,
							Whur the hazel-bushes tosses down their shadders over me,
							And I draw my plug o' navy, and I climb the fence, and set
							Jes' a-thinkin' here, 'y gravy! till my eyes is
								wringin'-wet!
						
						
							Tho' I still kin see the trouble o' the present,
								I kin see
							Kindo like my sight was doubleall the things that used to
									be;
							
							And the flutter o' the robin, and the teeter o' the wren
							Sets the willer branches bobbin "howdy-do" thum, Now to Then!
							The deadnin' and the thicket's jes' a bilin' full of
								June,
							Thum the rattle o' the cricket, to the yallar-hammer's tune;
							
							And the catbird in the bottom, and the sap-suck on the snag,
							Seems of they cain'tod-rot'em!jes' do nothin' else but
								brag!
						
						
							They's music in the twitter of the bluebird and the jay,
							And that sassy little critter jes' a-peckin' all the day,
							They's music in the "flicker," and they's music in the
								thrush,
							And they's music in the snicker o' the chipmunk In the brush!
						
						
							They's music allaround me!And I go back, in a
								dream
							Sweeter yit than ever found me fast asleepand in the stream
							That used to split the medder whur the dandylions grooved,
							I stand knee-deep, and redder than the sunset down the road.
						
						
							Then's when I' b'en a-fishin'!and they's other
								fellers, too,
							With their hickry poles a-swishin' out behind 'em, and a few
							Little "shiners" on our stringers, with their tails tiptoein'
								Bloom,
							As we dance 'em in our fingers all the happy journey home.
						
						
							I kin see us, true to Natur', thum the time we started out
							With a biscuit and a 'tater in our little "roundabout!"
							I kin see our lines a-tanglin', and our elbows in a jam,
							And our naked legs a-danglin' thum the apern of the dam.
						
						
							I kin see the honeysuckle climbin' up around the mill;
							And kin hear the worter chuckle, and the wheel a-growlin' still;
							And thum the bank below it I kin steal the old canoe,
							And jes' git in and row it like the miller used to do.
						
						
						
							W'y, I git my fan, focuswd on the past so mortal plain
							I kin even smell the locus'-blossoms blounlin' in the lane,
							And I hear the cow-bells clinkin' sweeter tunes 'n "money
								must"
							Fer the lightnin'-bugs a-bllnkin' and a-dancin' in the
								dusk.
						
						
							And so I keep on musin', as the feller says, till I'm
							Firm-fixed in the conclusion that they hain't no better time,
							When you come to cipher on it, than the old times,and, I
								swear
							I kin wake and say "dog-gone-it!" jes' as soft as any
								prayer!
						
					
					
					
						HAS SHE FORGOTTEN.
						
							I.
							
								HAS SHE forgotten? On this very May
							We were to meet here, with the birds and bees,
							As on that Sabbath, underneath the trees
							We strayed among the tombs, and stripped away
							The vines from these old granites, cold and graym
							And yet, indeed, not grim enough were they
							To stay our kisses, smiles and ecstacies,
							Or closer voice-lost vows and rhapsodies.
							Has she forgottenthat the May has won
							Its promise?that the bird-songs from the tree
							Are sprayed above the grasses as the sun
							Might jar the dazzling dew down showeringly?
							Has she forgotten lifeloveeveryone
							Has she forgotten meforgotten me?
						
						
							II.
							Low, low down in the violets I press
							My lips and whisper to her. Does she hear,
							And yet hold silence, though I call her dear,
							Just as of old, save for the tearfulness
							Of the clenched eyes, and the soul's vast distress?
							Has she forgotten thus the old caress
							That made our breath a quickened atmosphere
							That failed nigh unto swooning with the sheer
							Delight? Mine arms clutch now this earthen heap
							Sodden with tears that flow on ceaselessly
							As autumn rains the long, long, long nights weep
							In memory of days that used to be,
							Has she forgotten these? And, in her sleep,
							Has she forgotten meforgotten me?
						
						
						
							III.
							To-night, against my pillow, with shut eyes,
							I mean to weld our facesthrough the dense
							Incalculable darkness make pretense
							That she has risen from her reveries
							To mate her dreams with mine in marriages
							Of mellow palms, smooth faces, and tense ease
							Of every longing nerve of indolence,
							Lift from the grave her quiet lips, and stun
							My senses with her kissesdrawl the glee
							Of her glad mouth, full blithe and tenderly,
							Across mine own, forgetful if is done
							The old love's awful dawn-time when said we,
							"To-day is ours!" . . . . Ah, Heaven! can it be
							She has forgotten meforgotten me!
						
					
					
					
						A' OLD PLAYED-OUT SONG.
						
							
								IT'S THE curiouscst thing in creation,
							Whenever I hear that old song,
							"Do They Miss Me at Home?" I 'm so bothered,
							My life seems as short as it's long!
							Fer ever'thing 'pears like adzackly
							It 'peared, in the years past and gone,
							When I started out sparkin', at tweny,
							And had my first neckercher on!
						
						
							Though I'm wrinkelder, older and grayer
							Right now than my parents was then,
							You strike up that song, "Do They Miss Me?"
							And I'm jest a youngster again!
							I 'm a-standin' back there in the furries
							A-wishin' fer evening to come,
							And a-whisperin' over and over
							Them words, "Do They Miss Me at Home?"
						
						
							You see, Marthy Ellen she sung it
							The first time I heerd it; and so,
							As she was my very first sweetheart,
							It reminds of her, do n't you know,
							How her face ust to look, in the twilight,
							As I tuck her to spellin'; and she
							Rep' a-hummln' that song 'tel I ast her,
							Pine-blank, ef she ever missed me!
						
						
							I can shet my eyes now, as you sing it,
							And hear her low answerin' words,
							And then the glad chirp of the crickets
							As clear as the twitter of birds;
							
							And the dust in the road is like velvet,
							And the ragweed, and fennel, and grass
							Is as sweet as the scent of the Inks
							Of Eden of old, as we pass.
						
						
							"Do They Miss Ale at Home, Sing it lower. . ..
							And softerand sweet as the tweeze
							That powdered our path with the snowy
							White bloom of the old loeus-trees!
							Let the whippoorwills heip you to sin; it,
							And the echoes its', over the hill,
							'Tel the moon boolges out, in a chorus
							Of stars, and our voices is still.
						
						
							But, oh, "They is a chord in the music
							That's missed when kor voice is away,"
							Though I listen from midnight morning,
							And dawn, itcl the dusk of the day;
							And I grope through the dark, lookin' up'ards
							And on through the heavenly dome,
							With my longin' soul sing, and sobbin'
							The words, "Do They Miss at Home?"
						
					
					
					
						THE LOST PATH.
						
							
								ALONE they walkedtheir fingers knit together,
							And swaying listlessly as might a swing
							Wherein Dan Cupid dangled in the weather
							Of some sun-flooded afternoon of Spring.
						
						
							Within the clover-fields the tickled cricket
							Laughed lightly as they loitered down the lane,
							And from the covert of the hazel-thicket
							The squirrel peeped and laughed at them again.
						
						
							The bumble-bee that tipped the lily-vases
							Along the road-side in the shadows dim,
							Went ', lowing the blossoms of their faces
							As though their sweets must needs be shared with him.
						
						
							Between the pasture bars the wondering cattle
							Stared wistfully, and from their mellow bells
							Shook out a welcoming whose dreamy rattle
							Fell swooningly away in fah, farewells.
						
						
							And Sieogh at last the gloom of night fell oer them,
							And Oldcd all the landscape from their eyes,
							They only know the dusky path before them
							Was leading safely on to Paradise.
						
					
					
					
						THE LITTLE TINY KICKSHAW
						
							
								"And any little tiny kickshaws.
							
							Shakespeare.
						
						
							
								O TILE LITTLE tiny kickshow that Higher sent tae me,
							'Tis sweet, than the sugar-glum that reepens on the tree,
							Wi' dent, flavorins o' spice an musky rose narie,
							The little tiny kickshaw that Hither sent tae me.
						
						
							'Tis luscious wi' the staled tang, o' fruits frae over the
								sea,
							An e en its fragrance gars we laugh wi' langin' lip an'
								ee,
							Till a its fr. sheen sheen white inelten Manic be
							Sae weel I hive the kinkshaw that Anther sent tile me.
						
						
							O I love the tiny kickshaw, an' I smack my lips wi glee,
							Aye mickle do I lure the taste o sic a luxourie,
							But maist I lure the lurein' han's that could the giftie gie
							O' the little tiny kickshaw that Mither sent tae me.
						
					
					
					
						HIS MOTHER.
						
							
								DEAD! my wayward boy,y orvie
							Not the Loze's! but minethe good
							God's free gift to me alone,
							Sanctified by motherhood.
						
						
							"Bad," you say: Well, who is not,
							"Brutal "" with a heart of stone"
							And "red-handed."Ah! the hot
							Blood upon your own!
						
						
							I come not, with downward eyes,
							To plead for him shanwdly,
							God did not apologize
							When lie gave the hoy to me.
						
						
							Simply, I make ready now
							For His verdictYou prepare
							You have killed its bothand how
							Will you face us There!
						
					
					
					
						KISSING THE ROD.
						
							
								Q HEART of mine, we should n't
							Worry so!
							What we've missed of calm we could
							Have, you know!
							And of sorrow's driving rain,
							We can better meet again,
							If it blow!
						
						
							We have erred in that dark hour
							We have known,
							When our tears fell with the shower,
							All alone!
							Were not shine and shadow blent
							As the gracious Master meant?
							Let us temper our content
							With His own.
						
						
							For, we know, not every morrow
							Can be sad;
							So, forgetting all the sorrow
							We have had,
							Let us fold away our fears,
							And put by our foolish tears,
							And through all the coming years
							Just be glad.
						
					
					
					
						HOW IT HAPPENED.
						
							
								I GOT to thinkin' of herboth her parents dead and gone
							And all her sisters married off, and none but her and John
							A livin' all alone there in that lonesome sort O' wny,
							And him a blame old bachelor, confirmder ev'ry day!
							I'd knowed 'em all from childurm and their daddy from the time
							He settled in the neighborhood, and had n't ary a dime
							Er dollar, when he married, fer to start housekeepin'on!
							So I got to thinkin' of herboth her parents dead and gone!
						
						
							I got to thinkin' of her; and a-wundern what she done
							Thal all her sisters kep' a gittin' married, one by one,
							And her without no chancesand the best girl of the Pack
							An old maid, with her hands, you might say, tied behind her back,
							And Mother, too, afore she died, she ust to jes' take on,
							When none of 'em was left, you know, but Evaline and John
							And jes' declare to goodness 'at the young 'non must be
								bline
							To not sec what a wife they'd git if they got Evaline!
						
						
							I got to thinkin' of her; in my great affliction she
							Was rich a comfort to us, and so kind and neighberly,
							She 'd come, and leave her housework, fer to he'p out little
								Jane,
							And talk of her own mother at she'd never sec again
							Maybe sometimes cry togetherthough, fer the most part she
							
							Would have the child to riconciled and happy-like 'at we
							Felt lonesomer'n ever when she'd put her bonnet on
							And say she'd silly haf to be a-gittin' back to John!
						
						
							I got to thinkin' of her, as I say,and more and more
							I'd think of her dependence, and the burdens 'at she bore,
							Her parents both a-bein' dead, and all her sisters gone
							And married off, and her a-livin' there alone with John
							You might say jes' a-toilin' and a-slavin' out her life
							Fer a man 'at hadn't pride enough to git hisse'f a wife
							'Less sonic one married Evaline, and packed her off some day!
							So I got to thinkin' of herand it happened thataway.
						
					
					
					
						BABYHOOD.
						
							
								HEIGH-HO! Babyhood, Tell me where you linger:
							Let's toddle home again, for we have gone astray;
							Take this eager hand of mine and lead me by the finger
							Back to the Lotus lands of the far-away.
						
						
							Turn back the leaves of life, do n't read the story,
							Let's find the pictures, and fancy all the rest:
							We can fill the written pages with a brighter glory
							Than Old Time, the story-teller, at his very best!
						
						
							Turn to the brook, where the honeysuckle, tipping
							O'er its vase of perfume spills it on the breeze,
							And the bee and humming-bird in ecstasy are sipping
							From the fairy flagons of the blooming locust trees.
						
						
							Turn to the lane, where we used to "teeter-totter,"
							Printing little foot-palms in the mellow mold,
							Laughing at the lazy cattle wading in the water
							Where the ripples dimple round the buttercups of gold:
						
						
							Where the dusky turtle lies basking on the gravel
							Of the sunny sandbar in the middle-tide,
							And the ghostly dragonfly pauses in his travel
							To rest like a blossom where the water-lily died.
						
						
							Heigh-ho, Babyhood, Tell me where you lingers:
							Let's toddle home again, for we have gone astray;
							Take this eager hand of mine and lead me by the finger
							Back to the Lotus lands of the far-away.
						
					
					
					
						TILE DAYS GONE BY.
						
							
								O THE DAYS gone by! O the days gone by!
							The apples in the orchard, and the pathway through the rye;
							The chirrup of the robin, and the whistle of the quail
							As he piped across the meadows sweet as any nightingale;
							When the bloom was on the clover, and the blue was in the sky,
							And my happy heart brimmed over in the days gone by.
						
						
							In the days gone by, when my naked feet were tripped
							By the honey-Buckle's tangles where the water-lilies dipped,
							And the ripples of the river lipped the moss along the brink
							Where the placid-eyed and lazy-footed cattle came to drink,
							And the tilting snipe stood fearless of the truant's way-ward cry
							And the splashing of the swimmer, in the days gone by.
						
						
							O the days gone by! O the days gone by
							The music of the laughing lip, the luster of the eve;
							The childish faith in fairies, and Aladdin's magic ring
							The simple, soul-reposing, glad belief in everything,
							When life was like a story, holding neither sob nor sigh,
							In the golden olden glory of the days gone by.
						
					
				
				
				
					Mrs. Miller
					
					MRS. MILLER.
					
						JOHN B. McKINNEY, Attorney and J Counselor at Law, as his sign read,
						was, for many reasons, a fortunate man. For many other reasons he was not. He was
						chiefly fortunate in being, as certain opponents often strove to witheringly designate
						him, "the son of his father," since that sound old gentleman was the
						wealthiest farmer in that section, with but one son and heir to, in tine, supplant him
						in the role of "county god," and haply perpetuate the prouder title of
						"the biggest tax-payer on the assessment list." And this fact, too, fortunate
						as it would seem, was doubtless the indirect occasion of a liberal percentage of all
						John's misfortunes. From his earliest school-days in the little town, up to his
						tardy graduation from a distant college, the influence of his father's wealth
						invited his procrastination, humored its results, encouraged the laxity of his ambition,
						"and even now," as John used, in bitter irony, to put it, "it is aiding
						and abetting me in the ostensible practice of my chosen profession, a listless, aimless
						undetermined man of forty, and a confirmed  bachelor at
						that?" At the utterance of this self-depreciating statement, John generally jerked
						his legs clown from the top of his desk; and, rising and kicking his chair back to the
						wall, he would stump around his littered office till the manilla carpet steamed with
						dust. Then he would wildly break away, seeking refuge either in the open street, or in
						his room at the old-time tavern, The Eagle House, "where," he would say,
						"I have lodged and boarded, I do solemnly asseverate, for a long, unbroken,
						middle-aged eternity of ten years, and can yet assert, in the words of the more
						fortunately-dying Webster, that 'I still live!'
					Extravagantly satirical as he was at times, John had always an indefinable drollery
						about him that made him agreeable company to his friends, at least; and such an admiring
						friend he had constantly at hand in the person of Bert Haines. Both were Bohemians in
						natural tendency, and, though John w as far in Bert's advance in point of age, he
						found the young man "just the kind of a fellow to have around;" while Bert, in
						turn, held his senior in profound esteemlooked up to him, in fact, and in even his
						eccentricities strove to pattern after him. And so it was, when summer days were dull
						and tedious, these two could muse and doze the hours away together; and when the  nights were long, and dark, and deep, and beautiful, they
						could drift out in the noon-light of the stars, and with'' the soft
						complaining flute" and "warbling lute," "lay the pipes," as
						John would say, for their enduring popularity with the girls! And it was immediately
						subsequent to one of these romantic excursions, when the belated pair, at two
						o'clock in the morning, had skulked up a side stairway of the old hotel, and gained
						John's room, with nothing more serious happening than Bert falling over a trunk and
						smashing his guitar,just after such a night of romance and adventure it was that, in the
						seclusion of john's room, Bert had something of especial import to communicate.
					"Mack," he said, as that worthy anathematized a spiteful match, and then
						sucked his finger.
					"Blast the ail-fired old torch!" said John, wrestling with the lamp-flue, and
						turning on a welcome flame at last. "Well, you said 'Macke!' Why do
						n't you go on? And don't bahv1 at the top of your lungs, either. You've
						already succeeded in waking every boarder in the house with that guitar, and you want to
						make amends now by letting them go to sleep again!"
					"But my dear fellow," said Bert, with  forced
						calmness, "you're the fellow that's making all the noiseand"
					"Why, you howling dervish!" interrupted John, with a feigned air of pleased
						surprise and admiration." But let's drop controversy. Throw the fragments of
						your guitar in the wood-box there, and proceed with the opening proposition."
					"What I was going to say was this," said Bert, with a half-desperate
						enunciation; "I'm getting tired of this way of livingclean, dead-tired, and
						fagged out, and sick of the whole artificial business!"
					"Oh, yes!" exclaimed John, with a towering disdain, "you need n't
						go any further! I know just what malady is throttling you. It's reformreform!
						You're going to' turn over a new leaf,' and all that, and sign the
						pledge, and quit cigars, and go to work, and pay your debts, and gravitate back into
						Sunday-School, where you can make love to the preacher's daughter under the guise
						of religion, and desecrate the sanctity of the innermost pale of the church by
						confessions at Class of your thorough conversion!' Oh, you're going
						to"
					"No, but I'm going to do nothing of the sort," interrupted Bert,
						resentfully." What I  meanif you '11 let me
						finishis, I 'm getting too old to be eternally undignifying myself with this '
						singing of midnight strains under Bonnybell's window panes,' and too old to be
						keeping myself in constant humiliation and expense by the borrowing and stringing up of
						old guitars, together with the breakage of the same, and the general wear-and-tear on a
						constitution that is slowly being sapped to its foundations by exposure in the night-air
						and the dew." "And while you receive no further compensation in return,"
						said John, "than, perhaps, the coy turning up of a lamp at an upper casement where
						the jasmine climbs; or an exasperating patter of invisible palms; or a huge dank wedge
						of fruit-cake shoved at you by the old man, through a crack in the door."
					"Yes, and I'm going to have my just reward is what I mean "said Bert
						"and exchange the lover's life for the benedict's. Going to hunt out a
						good, sensible girl and marry her." And as the young man concluded this desperate
						avowal he jerked the bow of his cravat into a hard knot, kicked his hat under the bed,
						and threw himself on the sofa like an old suit
					John stared at him with absolute compassion.  "Poor
						devil," he said, half musingly, "I know just how he feels
					
						'Ring in the wind his wedding chimes,
						Smile, villagers, at every door;
						Old church-yards stuffed with buried crimes,
						Be clad in sunshine o'er and o'er."
					
					"Oh, here!" exclaimed the wretched Bert, jumping to his feet; "let up on
						that dismal recitative. It would make a dog howl to hear that!"
					"Then you 'let up' on that suicidal talk of marrying," replied
						John, "and all that harangue of incoherency about your growing old. Why, my dear
						fellow, you 're at least a dozen years my junior, and look at me!" and John
						glanced at himself in the glass with a feeble pride, noting the gray sparseness of his
						side-hair, and its plaintive dearth on top. "Of course I 've got to
						admit," he continued, "that my hair is gradually evaporating; but for all
						that, I 'm ' still in the ring,' do n't you know; as young in
						society, for the matter of that, as yourself! And this is just the reason why I do
						n't want you to blight every prospect in your life by marrying at your
						ageespecially a womanI mean the kind of woman you'd be sure to fancy at your
						age."
					"Did n't I say ' a good, sensible girl' was the kind I had
						selected?" Bert remonstrated.
					
					"Oh!" exclaimed John, "you've selected her, then?and without one
						word to me!" he ended, rebukingly.
					"Well, hang it all I "said Bert, impatiently; "I knew how you were, and just how you 'd talk me out of it; and I made up my mind that
						for once, at least, I 'd follow the dictations of a heart thathowever capricious in
						youthful frivoltiesshould beat, in manhood, loyal to itself and loyal to its own
						affinity."
					"Go it! Fire away! Farewell, vain world!" exclaimed the excited
						John."Trade your soul off for a pair of ear-bobs and a button-hooka hank of jute
						hair and a box of lily-white! I've buried not less than ten old chums this way, and
						here's another nominated for the tomb."
					"But you've got no reason about you," began
						Bert,"I want to "
					"And so do I 'want to,'" broke in John,
						finally,"I want to get some sleep.So ' register' and come to bed.And lie
						up on edge, too, when you do come'cause this old
						catafalque-of-a-bed is just about as narrow as your views of single blessedness! Peace!
						Not another word! Pile in! Pile in! I'm three-parts sick, anyhow, and I want
						rest!" And very truly he spoke.
					
					It was a bright morning when the slothful John was aroused by a long, vociferous
						pounding on the door. He started up in bed to find himself alonethe victim of his
						wrathful irony having evidently risen and fled away while his pitiless tormentor
						slept" Doubtless to at once accomplish that nefarious intent as set forth by his
						unblushing confession of last night, "mused the miserable John. And he ground his
						fingers in the corners of his swollen eyes, and leered grimly in the glass at the
						feverish orbs, blood-shotten, blurred and aching.
					The pounding on the door continued. John looked at his watch; it was only 8
						o'clock.
					"Hi, there!" he called viciously. "What do you mean, anyhow?" he
						went on, elevating his voice again; "shaking a man out of bed when he's just
						dropping into his first sleep?"
					"I mean that you 're going to get up; that's what! "replied a firm
						female voice. "It's 8 o'clock, and I want to put your room in order; and
						I'm not going to wait all day about it, either! Get up and go down to your
						breakfast, and let me have the room!" And the clamor at the door was industriously
						renewed
					"Say!" called John, querulously, hurrying on his clothes, "Say!
						you!"
					"There's no ' say ' about it I" responded  the determined voice: "I've heard about you and your ways around
						this house, and I'm not going to put up with it! You'll not lie in bed till
						high noon when I've got to keep your room in proper order!"
					"Oh ho!" bawled John, intelligently: "reckon you're the new
						invasion here? Doubtless you're the girl that's been hanging up the new
						window-blinds that wo n't roll, and disguising the pillows with clean slips, and
						'hennin' round among my books and papers on the table here, and ageing me
						generally till I do n't know my own handwriting by the time I find it! Oh, yes! you
						're going to revolutionize things here; you're going to introduce promptness,
						and system, and order. See you've even filled the wash-pitcher and tucked two
						starched towels through the handle. Have n't got any tin towels, have you? I rather
						like this new soap, too! So solid and durable, you know; warranted not to raise a
						lather. Might as well wash one's hands with a door-knob!" And as John's
						voice grumbled away into the sullen silence again, the determined
						voice without responded: "Oh, you can growl away to your heart's content, Mr.
						McKinney, but I want you to distinctly understand that I'm not going to humor you
						in any of your old bachelor, sluggardly, slovenly ways, and whims  and notions. And I want you to understand, too, that I 'm not hired help
						in this house, nor a chambermaid, nor anything of the kind. I 'm the landlady here;
						and I 'll give you just ten minutes more to get down to your break-fast, or you
						'll not get anythat's all!" And as the reversed cuff John was in the act
						of buttoning slid from his wrist and rolled under the dresser, he heard a stiff rustling
						of starched muslin flouncing past the door, and the quick italicized patter of
						determined gaiters down the hall.
					"Look here," said John to the bright-faced boy in the hotel office, a half
						hour later. "It seems the house here's been changing hands again."
					"Yes, sir," said the boy, closing the cigar case, and handing him a lighted
						match. "Well, the new landlord, whoever he is," continued John, patronizingly,
						"is a good one. Leastwise, he knows what's good to eat, and how to serve
						it."
					The boy laughed timidly,"It aint a 'land-lord,' thoughit's a
						landlady; it's my mother."
					"Ah," said John, dallying with the change the boy had pushed toward him.
						"Your mother, eh?" And where's your father?
					"He's dead," said the boy.
					
					"And what's this for?" abruptly asked John, examining his change.
					"That's your change," said the boy: "You got three for a quarter,
						and gave me a half."
					"Well, you just keep it," said John, sliding back the
						change. "It's for good luck, you know, my boy. Same as drinking your long life
						and prosperity. And, Oh yes, by the way, you may tell your mother I 'll have a
						friend to dinner with me to-day."
					"Yes, sir, and thank you, sir," said the beaming boy.
					"Handsome boy!" mused John, as he walked down street. "Takes that from
						his father, though, I '11 wager my existence!"
					Upon his office desk John found a hastily written note. It was addressed in the
						well-known hand of his old chum. He eyed the missive apprehensively, and there was a
						positive pathos in his voice as he said aloud, "It's our divorce. I feel
						it!" The note, headed, "At the Office, 4 in Morning," ran like this: 
							
								
									"Dear MackI left you slumbering so soundly that, by noon, when you waken,
										I hope, in your refreshed state, you will look more tolerantly on my intentions
										as partially confided to you this night. I will not see you here again to say
										good-bye. I wanted to, but  was afraid to
										'rouse the sleeping lion.' I will not close my eyes to-nightfact is, I
										have n't time. Our serenade at Josie's was a pre-arranged signal by
										which she is to be ready and at the station for the 5 morning train. You may
										remember the lighting of three consecutive matches at her window before the
										igniting of her lamp. That meant, 'Thrice dearest one, I'll meet thee
										at the depot at 4:30 sharp.' So, my dear Mack, this is to inform you that,
										even as you read, Josie and I have eloped. It is all the old man's fault,
										yet I forgive him. Hope he 'll return the favor. Josie predicts he will,
										inside of a weekor two weeks, anyhow, Good-bye, Mack, old boy; and let a fellow
										down as easy as you can. Affectionately,
									
										"BERT."
										
									
								
							
						
					
					"Heavens!" exclaimed John, stifling the note in his hand and stalking
						tragically around the room. "Can it be possible that I have nursed a frozen viper?
						An ingrate? A wolf in sheep's clothing? An orang-outang in gent's
						furnishings?
					"Was you callin' me, sir?" asked a voice at the door. It was the
						janitor.
					"No! "thundered John; "Quit my sight! get out of my way! No, no,
						Thompson, I don't mean that," he called after him. "Here's a half
						dollar for you, and I want you to lock up  the office, and
						tell anybody what wants to see me that I've been set upon and sacked and
						assassinated in cold blood; and I 've fled to my father's in the country, and
						am lying there in the convulsions of dissolution, babbling of green fields and running
						brooks, and thirsting for the life of every woman that comes in gunshot!" And then,
						more like a confirmed in-valid than a man in the strength and pride of his prime, he
						crept down into the street again, and thence back to his hotel.
					Dejectedly and painfully climbing to his room, he encountered, on the landing above, a
						little woman in a jaunty dusting-cap and a trim habit of crisp muslin. He tried to evade
						her, but in vain. She looked him squarely in the faceoccasioning him the dubious
						impression of either needing shaving very badly, or having egg-stains on his chin.
					"You're the gentleman in No. 11, I believe?" she said.
					He nodded confusedly.
					"Mr. McKinney is your name, I think?" she queried, with a pretty elevation of
						the eye brows.
					"Yes, ma'arm," said John, rather abjectly. "You see, ma'amBut
						I beg pardon," he went on stammeringly, and with a very awkward  bow"I beg pardon, but I am
						addressingahtheahthe"
					"You are addressing the new landlady," she interpolated, pleasantly.
						"Mrs. Miller is my name. I think we should be friends, Mr. McKinney, since I hear
						that you are one of the oldest patrons of the house."
					"Thank youthank you! "said John, completely embarrassed. "Yes,
						indeed!ha, ha. Oh, yesyesreally, we must be quite old friends, I assure you,
						Mrs.Mrs."
					"Mrs. Miller," smilingly prompted the little woman.
					"Yes, ah, yes,Mrs. Miller. Lovely morn-ing, Mrs. Miller," said John, edging
						past her and backing toward his room.
					But as Mrs. Miller was laughing outright, for some mysterious reason, and gave no
						affirmation in response to his proposition as to the quality of the weather, John,
						utterly abashed closed the door. "Deucedly extraordinary woman!" he thought;
						"wonder what's her idea!"
					He remained locked in his room till the dinner-hour; and, when he promptly emerged for
						that occasion, there was a very noticeable improvement in his personal appearance, in
						point of dress, at least, though there still  lingered
						about his smoothly-shaven features a certain haggard, care-worn, anxious look that would
						not out.
					Next his own place at the table he found a chair tilted forward, as though in
						reservation for some honored guest. What did it mean! Oh, he remembered now. Told the
						boy to tell his mother he would have a friend to dine with him. Bertand, blast the
						fellow! he was, doubtless, dining then with a far preferable companionhis wifein a
						palace-car on the P., C. & St. L., a hundred miles away. The thought was maddening.
						Of course, now, the landlady would have material for a new assault. And how could he
						avert it? A despairing film blurred his sight for the momentthen the eyes flashed
						daringly. "I will meet it like a man!" he said, mentally"yea, like a
						State's Attorney,I will invite it! Let her do her worst!"
					He called a servant, directing some message in an undertone.
					"Yes, sir," said the agreeable servant, "I 'll go right away,
						sir," and left the room.
					Five minutes elapsed, and then a voice at his shoulder startled him:
					"Did you send for me, Mr. McKinney? What is it I can do?"
					"You are very kind, Mrs.Mrs."
					
					"Mrs. Miller," said the lady, with a smile that he remembered.
					"now, please spare me even the mildest of rebukes. I deserve your censure, but I
						can 't stand itI can't positively!" and there was a pleading look in
						John's lifted eyes that changed the little woman's smile to an expression of
						real solicitude. "I have sent tor you," continued John, "to ask of you
						three great favors. Please be seated while I enumerate them. FirstI want you to forgive
						and forget that ill-natured, uncalled-for grumbling of mine this morning when you
						wakened me."
					"Why, certainly," said the landlady, again smiling, though quite
						seriously.
					"I thank you," said John, with dignity. "And, second," he
						continued"I want your assurance that my extreme confusion and awkwardness on the
						occasion of our meeting later were rightly interpreted."
					"Certainlycertainly," said the landlady, with the kindliest sympathy.
					"I am gratefulutterly," said John, with aewer dignity. "And then,"
						he went on,"after informing you that it is impossible for the best friend I have in
						the world to be with me at this hour, as intended, I want you to do me the very great
						honor of dining with me. Will you?"
					
					"Why, certainly," said the charming little landlady"and a thousand
						thanks beside! But tell me something of your friend," she continued, as they were
						being served. "What is he likeand what is his nameand where is he?"
					"Well,"said John, warily,"he's like all young fellows of his age.
						He's quite young, you knownot over thirty, I should saya mere boy, in fact, but
						clevertalentedversatile."
					"Unmarried, of course,"said the chatty little woman.
					"Oh, yes!"said John, in a matter-of-course tonebut he caught himself
						abruptlythen stared intently at his napkinglanced evasively at the side-face of his
						questioner, and said,"Oh yes! Yes, indeed! He's unmarried.Old bachelor like
						myself, you know. Ha! Ha!"
					"So he's not like the young man here that distinguished himself last
						night?" said the little woman, archly.
					The fork in John's hand, half-lifted to his lips, faltered and fell back toward
						his plate.
					"Why, what's that?" said John, in a strange voice;"I had n't
						heard anything about itI mean I have n't heard anything about any young man. What
						was it?"
					
					"Have n't heard anything about the elopement?" exclaimed the little
						woman, in astonishment." Why, it's been the talk of the town all morning.
						Elopement in high lifeson of a grain-dealer, name of Hines, or Himes, or something, and
						a preacher's daughterJosie somebodydid n't catch her last name. Wonder if you
						do n't know the partiesWhy, Mr. McKinney, are you ill?"
					"Oh, nonot at all!" said John:" Do n't mention it. Haha! Just
						eating too rapidly, that's all. Go on withyou were saying that Bert and Josie had
						really eloped."
					"What 'Bert'?" asked the little woman quickly.
					"Why, did I say Bert?" said John, with a guilty look." I meant Haines,
						of course, you knowHaines and Josie.And did they really elope?"
					"That's the report," answered the little woman, as though deliberating
						some important evidence;" and they say, too, that the plot of the runaway was quite
						ingenious. It seems the young lovers were assisted in their flight by some old
						fellowfriend of the young man'sWhy, Mr. McKinney, you are ill,
						surely?"
					John's face was ashen.
					"Nono!" he gasped, painfully: "Go  ongo on!
						Tell me more about thethethe old fellowthe old reprobate! And is he still at
						large?"
					"Yes," said the little womon, anxiously regarding the strange demeanor of her
						companion. "They say, though, that the law can do nothing with him, and that this
						fact only intensifies the agony of the broken-hearted parentsfor it seems they have,
						till now, regarded him both as a gentleman and family friend in whom"
					"I really am ill," moaned John, waveringly rising to his feet; "but I
						beg you not to be alarmed. Tell your little boy to come to my room, where I will retire
						at once, if you'll simply a nervous attack. I am often troubled so; and only
						perfect quiet and seclusion restores me. You have done me a great honor,
						Mrs."("Mrs.Miller," sighed the sympathetic little woman)"Mrs.
						Miller,and I thank you more than I have words to express." He bowed limply, turned
						through a side door opening on a stair, and tottered to his room.
					During the three weeks' illness through which he passed, John had every
						attentionmuch more, indeed, then he had consciousness to appreciate. For the most part
						his  mind wandered, and he talked of curious things, and
						laughed hysterically, and serenaded mermaids that dwelt in grassy seas of dew, and were
						bald-headed like himself. He played upon a fourteen-jointed flute of solid gold, with
						diamond holes, and keys carved out of thawless ice. His old father came at first to take
						him home; but he could not be moved, the doctor said.
					Two weeks of John's illness had worn away, when a very serious looking young man,
						in a traveling duster, and a high hat, came up the stairs to see him. A handsome young
						lady was clinging to his arm. It was Bert and Josie. She had guessed the very date of
						their forgiveness. John wakened even clearer in mind than usual that afternoon. He
						recognized his old chum at a glance, and Josienow Bert's wife. Yes, he comprehended
						that. He was holding a hand of each when another figure entered. His thin, white fingers
						loos-ened their clasp, and he held a hand toward the new comer. "Here," he
						said, "is my best friend in the worldBert, you and Josie will love her, I know; for
						this is Mrs.Mrs.""Mrs. Miller," said the radiant little
						woman."Yes,Mrs. Miller,"said John, very proudly.
				
				
				
					Rhymes Of Rainy Days
					
					
						THE TREE-TOAD.
						
							
								"SCRIOUS-LIKE," said the tree-toad,
							"I 've twittered for rain all day;
							And I got up soon,
							And I hollered till noon
							But the sun, hit blazed away,
							Till I jest dumb down in a crawfish-hole,
							Weary at heart, and sick at soul!
						
						
							"Dozed away fer an hour,
							And I tackled the thing agin;
							And I sung, and sung
							Till I knowed my lung
							Was jest about give in;
							And then, thinks I, ef hit do n't rain now,
							There 're nothin' in singin', anyhowl
						
						
							"Once in awhile some
							Would come a drivln' past;
							And he'd hear my cry,
							And stop and sigh
							Till I jest laid back, at last,
							And I hollered rain till I thought my th'out
							Would bust right open at ever' notel
						
						
							"But I fetched her! O I fetched
								herl
							'Cause a little while ago,
							As I kindo' set,
							With one eye shet,
							And a-singin' soft and low,
							A voice drapped down on my fevered brain,
							Sayin','Ef you'll jest hush I'll
								rain!"
						
					
					
					
						A WORN-OUT PENCIL.
						
							
								WELLADAY!
							Here I lay
							You at restall worn away,
							O my pencil, to the tip
							Of our old companionship!
						
						
							Memory
							Sighs to see
							What you are, and used to be,
							Looking baekward to the time
							When you wrote your earliest rhyme!
						
						
							When I sat
							Filing at
							Your first point, and dreaming that
							Your initial song should be
							Worthy of posterity.
						
						
							With regret
							I forget
							If the song be living yet,
							Yet remember, vaguely now,
							It was honest, anyhow.
						
						
							You have brought
							Me a thought
							Truer yet was never taught,
							That the silent song is best,
							And the unsung worthiest.
						
						
						
							So if I,
							When I die,
							May as uncomplainingly
							Drop aside as now you do,
							Write of me, as I of you:
						
						
							Here lies one
							Who begun
							Life a-singing, heard of none;
							And he died, satisfied,
							With his dead songs by his sids.
						
					
					
					
						THE STEPMOTHER.
						
							
								FIRST she come to our house,
							Tommy run and hid;
							And Emily and Bob and me
							We cried jus' like we did
							When Mother died,and we all said
							'At we all wisht 'at we was dead!
						
						
							And Nurse she could n't stop us;
							And Pa he tried and tried,
							We sobbed and shook and would n't look
							But only cried and cried;
							And nen someoneWe could n't jus'
							Tell whowas cryin' same as us!
						
						
							Our Stepmother! Yes, it was her,
							Her arms around us all
							'Cause Tom slid down the bannister
							And peeked in from the hall.
							And we all love her, too, because
							She's purt nigh good as Mother was!
						
					
					
					
						THE RAIN.
						
							I.
							
								THE RAIN! the rain! the rain
							It gushed from the skies and streamed
							Like awful tears; and the sick man thought
							How pitiful it seemed!
							And he turned his face away,
							And stared at the wall again,
							His hopes nigh dead and his heart worn out
							O the rain! the rain! the rain
						
						
							II.
							The rain! the rain! the rain!
							And the broad stream brimmed the shores;
							And ever the river crept over the reeds
							And the roots of the sycamores:
							A corpse swirled by in a drift
							Where the boat had snapt its chain
							And a hoarse-voiced mother shrieked and raved.
							O the rain! the rain! the rain!
						
						
							III.
							The rain! the rain! the rain!
							Pouring, with never a pause,
							Over the fields and the green by ways
							How beautiful it was!
							And the new-made man and wife
							Stood at the window-pane
							Like two glad children kept from school.
							O the rain! the rain! the rain!
						
					
					
					
						THE LEGEND GLORIFIED.
						
							
								"I DEEM that God is not disquieted"
							This in a mighty poet's rhymes I read;
							And blazoned so forever doth abide
							Within my soul the legend glorified.
						
						
							Though awful tempests thunder overhead,
							I deem that God is not disquieted,
							The faith that trembles somewhat yet is sure
							Through storm and darkness of a way secure.
						
						
							Bleak winters, when the naked spirit hears
							The break of hearts, through stinging sleet of tears,
							I deem that God is not disquieted;
							Against all stresses am I clothed and fed.
						
						
							Nay, even with fixed eyes and broken breath,
							My feet dip down into the tides of death,
							Nor any friend be left, nor prayer be said,
							I deem that God is not disquieted.
						
					
					
					
						WANT TO BE WHUR MOTHER IS.
						
							
								"WANT TO BE whur mother is! Want to be whur mother
								is!"
							Jeemses Rivers! Wo n't some one ever shet that howl o' his?
							That-air yellin' drives me wild!
							Cain't none of ye stop the child?
							Want yer Daddy? "Naw." Gee whizz!
							"Want to be whur mother is!"
						
						
							"Want to be whur mother is! Want to be whur mother is!"
							Coax him, Sairy! Mary, sing somepin fer him! Lift him, Liz
							Bang the clock-bell with the key
							Er the meat-ax! Gee-mun-nee!
							Listen to them lungs o' his!
							"Want to be whur mother is!"
						
						
							"Want to be whur mother is! Want to be whur mother is!"
							Preacher guess 'll pound all night on that old pulpit o' his;
							'Pears to me some wimmin jest
							Shows religious interest
							Mostly 'fore their fambly's riz!
							"Want to be whur mother is!"
						
						
							"Want to be whur mother is! Want to be whur mother is!"
							Nights like these and whipperwills allus brings that voice of his!
							Sairy; Mary; 'Lizabeth;
							Do n't set there and ketch yer death
							In the dewer rheumatiz
							Want to be whur mother is?
						
					
					
					
						OLD MAN'S NURSERY RHYME.
						
							I.
							
								IN THE jolly winters
							Of the long-ago,
							It was not so cold as now
							O! No! No!
							Then, as I remember,
							Snowballs, to eat,
							Were as good as apples now,
							And every bit as sweet!
						
						
							II.
							In the jolly winters
							Of the dead-and-gone,
							Bub was warm as summer,
							With his red mitts on,
							Just in his little waist-
							And-pants all together,
							Who ever heard him growl
							About cold weather?
						
						
							III.
							In the jolly winters of the long-ago
							Was it half so cold as now?
							O! NO! NO!
							Who caught his death o' cold,
							Making prints of men
							Flat-backed in snow that now's
							Twice as cold again?
						
						
						
							IV.
							In the jolly winters
							Of the dead-and-gone,
							Startin' out rabbit-hunting
							Early as the dawn,
							Who ever froze his fingers,
							Ears, heels, or toes,
							Or'd a cared if he had?
							Nobody knows!
						
						
							V.
							Nights by the kitchen-stove,
							Shelling white and red
							Corn in the skillet, and
							Sleepin' four abed!
							Ah! the jolly winters
							Of the long-ago!
							We were not so old as now
							O! No! No!
						
					
					
					
						THREE DEAD FRIENDS.
						
							
								ALWAYS suddenly they are gone
							The friends we trusted and held secure
							Suddenly we are gazing on,
							Not a smiling face, but the marble-pure.
							Dead mask of a face that nevermore
							To a smile of ours will make reply
							The lips close-locked as the eyelids are.
							Goneswift as the flash of the molten ore
							A meteor pours through a midnight sky,
							Leaving it blind of a single star.
						
						
							Tell us, O Death, Remorseless Might!
							What is this old, unescapable ire
							You wreak on us?from the birth of light
							Till the world be charred to a core of fire!
							We do no evil thing to you
							We seek to evade youthat is all
							That is your willyou will not be known
							Of men. What, then, would you have us do?
							Cringe, and wait till your vengeance fall,
							And your graves be fed, and the trumpet blown?
						
						
							You desire no friends; but weO we
							Need them so, as we falter here,
							Fumbling through each new vacancy,
							As each is stricken that we hold dear.
							One you struck but a year ago;
							And one not a month ago; and one
							(God's vast pity!)and one lies now
							Where the widow wails, in her nameless woe,
							And the soldiers pace, with the sword and gun,
							Where the comrade sleeps, with the laureled brow.
						
						
						
							And what did the first?that wayward soul,
							Clothed of sorrow, yet nude of sin,
							And with all hearts bowed in the strange control
							Of the heavenly voice of his violin.
							Why, it was music the way he stood,
							
							So grand was the poise of the head and so
							Full was the figure of majesty!
							One heard with the eyes, as a deaf man would,
							And with all sense brimmed to the overflow
							With tears of anguish and ecstasy.
						
						
							And what did the girl, with the great warm light
							Of genius sunning her eyes of blue,
							With her heart so pure, and her soul so white
							What, O Death, did she do to you?
							Through field and wood as a child she strayed,
							As Nature, the dear sweet mother led;
							While from her canvas, mirrored back,
							Glimmered the stream through the everglade
							Where the grapevine trailed from the trees to wed
							Its likeness of emerald, blue and black.
						
						
							And what did he, who, the last of these,
							Faced you, with never a fear, O Death?
							Did you hate him that he loved the breeze,
							And the morning dews, and the rose's breath?
							Did you hate him that he answered not
							Your hate againbut turned, instead,
							His only hate on his country's wrongs?
							Wellyou possess him, dead!but what
							Of the good he wrought? With laureled head
							He bides with us in his deeds and songs.
						
						
							Laureled, first, that he bravely fought,
							And forged a way to our flag's release;
							Laureled, nextfor the harp he taught
							To wake glad songs in the days of peace
							Songs of the woodland haunts he held
							
							As close in his love as they held their bloom
							In their inmost bosoms of leaf and vine
							Songs that echoed, and pulsed and welled
							Through the town's pent streets, and the sick child's
								room,
							Pure as a shower in soft sunshine.
						
						
							Claim them, Death; yet their fame endures,
							What friend next will you rend from us
							In that cold, pitiless way of yours,
							And leave us a grief more dolorous?
							Speak to us!tell us, O Dreadful Power!
							Are we to have not a lone friend left?
							Since, frozen, sodden, or green the sod,
							In every second of every hour,
							
								Some one, Death, you have left thus bereft,
							Half inaudibly shrieks to God.
						
					
					
					
						IN BOHEMIA.
						
							
								HA! My DEAR! I'm back again
							Vendor of Bohemia's wares!
							Lordy! How it pants a man
							Climbing up those awful stairs!
							Well, I've made the dealer say
							Your sketch might sell, anyway!
							And I've made a publisher
							Hear my poem, Kate, my dear.
						
						
							In Bohemia, Kate, my dear
							Lodgers in a musty flat
							On the top floorliving here
							Neighborless, and used to that,
							Like a nest beneath the eaves,
							So our little home receives
							Only guests of chirping cheer
							We'll be happy, Kate, my dear!
						
						
							Under your north-light there, you
							At your easel, with a stain
							On your nose of Prussian blue,
							Paint your bits of shine and rain;
							With my feet thrown up at will
							O'er my littered window-still,
							I write rhymes that ring as clear
							As your laughter, Kate, my dear.
						
						
							Puff my pipe, and stroke my hair
							Bite my pencil-tip and gaze
							At you, mutely mooning there
							O'er your "Aprils" and your "Mays!"
							
							Equal inspiration in
							Dimples of your cheek and chin,
							And the golden atmosphere
							Of your paintings, Kate, my dear!
						
						
							
								Trying! Yes, at times it is,
							To clink happy rhymes, and fling
							On the canvas scenes of bliss,
							When we are half famishing!
							When your "jersey" rips in spots,
							And your hat's "forget-me-nots"
							Have grown tousled. Old and sere
							It is trying, Kate, my dear!
						
						
							Butas suresome picture sells,
							Andsometimesthe poetry
							Bless us! How the parrot yells
							His acclaims at you and me!
							How we revel then in scenes
							Of high banqueting!sardines
							Saladsolivesand a sheer
							Pint of sherry, Kate, my dear!
						
						
							Even now I cross your palm,
							With this great round world of gold!
							"Talking wild?" Perhaps I am
							Then, this little five-year-old!
							Call it anything you will,
							So it lifts your face until
							I may kiss away that tear
							Ere it drowns me, Kate, my dear.
						
					
					
					
						IN THE DARK.
						
							
								O IN THE depths of midnight
							What fancies haunt the brain!
							When even the sigh of the sleeper
							Sounds like a sob of pain.
						
						
							A sense of awe and of wonder
							I may never well define,
							For the thoughts that come in the shadows
							Never come in the shine.
						
						
							The old clock down in the parlor
							Like a sleepless mourner grieves,
							And the seconds drip in the silence
							As the rain drips from the eaves.
						
						
							And I think of the hands that signal
							The hours there in the gloom,
							And wonder what angel watchers
							Wait in the darkened room.
						
						
							And I think of the smiling faces
							That used to watch and wait,
							Till the click of the clock was answered
							By the click of the opening gate.
						
						
							They are not there now in the evening
							Morning or noonnot there;
							Yet I know that they keep their vigil,
							And wait for me Some where.
						
					
					
					
						WET WEATHER TALK.
						
							
								IT AIN'T no use to grumble and complain;
							It's jest as cheap and easy to rejoice:
							When God sorts out the weather and sends rain,
							W'y rain's my choice.
						
						
							Men giner'ly, to all intents
							Although they 're ap' to grumble some
							Puts most their trust in Providence,
							And takes things as they come;
							That is, the commonality
							Of men that's lived as long as me,
							Has watched the world enough to learn
							They're not the boss of the concern.
						
						
							With some, of course it's different
							I 've seed young men that knowed it
								all,
							And did n't like the way things went
							On this terrestial ball!
							But, all the same, the rain some way
							Rained jest as hard on picnic-day;
							Er when they railly wanted it,
							It maybe would n't rain a bit!
						
						
							In this existence, dry and wet
							Will overtake the best of men
							Some little skift o' clouds 'll shct
							The sun off now and then;
							But may be, while you 're wondern' who
							You 've fool-like lent your umbrell' to,
							And want itout'll pop the sun,
							And you 'll be glad you ain't got none!
						
						
						
							It aggervates the farmers, too
							They's too much wet, er too much sun,
							Er work, er waiting round to do
							Before the plowin''s done;
							And maybe, like as not, the wheat,
							Jest as it's lookin' hard to beat,
							Will ketch the stormand jest about
							The time the corn's a-jintin' out!
						
						
							These here cy-clones a-foolin' round
							And back'ard cropsand wind and rain,
							And yit the corn that's wallered down
							May elbow up again!
							They ain't no sense, as I kin see,
							In mortals, sich as you and me,
							A-faultin' Nature's wise intents,
							And lockin' horns with Providence!
						
						
							It ain't no use to grumble and complain;
							It's jest as cheap and easy to rejoice:
							When God sorts out the weather and sends rain,
							W'y, rain's my choice.
						
					
					
					
						WHERE SHALL WE LAND.
						
							
								"Where shall we land you, sweet?"
							
							Swinburns
						
						
							
								ALL LISTLESSLY we float
							Out seaward in the boat
							That beareth Love.
							Out sails of purest snow
							Bend to the blue below
							And to the blue above.
							Where shall we land?
						
						
							We drift upon a tide
							Shoreless on every side,
							Save where the eye
							Of Fancy sweeps far lands
							Shelved slopingly with sands
							Of gold and porphyry.
							Where shall we land?
						
						
							The fairy Isles we see,
							Loom up so mistily
							So vaguely fair,
							We do not care to break
							Fresh bubbles in our wake
							To bend our course for there
							Where shall we land?
						
						
							The warm winds of the deep
							Have lulled our sails to sleep,
							And so we glide
							Careless of wave or wind,
							Or change of any kind,
							Or turn of any tide.
							Where shall we land?
						
						
						
							We droop our dreamy eyes
							Where our reflection lies
							Steeped in the sea,
							And, in an endless fit
							Of languor, smile on it
							And its sweet mimicry.
							Where shall we land?
						
						
							"Where shall we land?" God's grace!
							I know not any place
							So fair as this
							Swung here between the blue
							Of sea and sky, with you
							To ask me, with a kiss,
							"Where shall we land?"
						
					
				
				
				
					Champion Checker-Player of Ameriky
					
					THE CHAMPION CHECKER-PLAYER OF AMERIKY.
					
						OF course as fur as Checker-playin's concerned, you can't
						jest adzackly claim 'at lots makes fortunes and lots gits bu'sted at itbut
						still, it's on'y simple jestice to acknowledge 'at there're absolute
						p'ints in the game 'at takes scientific principles to figger out, and a mighty
						level-headed feller to dimonstrate, don't you understand!
					Checkers is a' old enough game, ef age is any rickommendation;
						and it's a' evident fact, too, 'at "the tooth of time," as the
						feller says, which fer the last six thousand years has gained some reputation fer
						a-eatin' up things in giner'l, don't 'pear to 'a' gnawed
						much of a hole in Checkersjedgin' from the checker-board of to-day and the ones
						'at they're uccasionally shovellin' out at Pomp'y-i, er whatever its name is. Turned up a
						checker-board there not long ago, I wuz readin' 'bout, 'at still had the
						spots onas plain and fresh as the modern white-pine board o' our'n, squared
						off with pencil-marks and  pokeberry-juice. These is facts
						'at history herself has dug out, and of course it ain't fer me ner you to turn
						our nose up a Checkes, whuther we ever tamper with the fool-game er not. Fur's
						that's concerned, I don't p'tend to be no checker-player myse'f,but I know'd a feller onc't 'at could play, and sorto' made a business of it; and that
						man, in my opinion, was a geenyus! Name wuz Wesley CotterlJohn Wesley Cotterljest plain
						Wes, as us fellers round the Shoe-Shop ust to call him; ust to allus make the Shoe-Shop
						his headquarters-like; and, rain er shine, wet er dry, you'd allus find Wes on hands, ready to banter some feller fer a game, er jest
						a-settin' humped up there over the checker-board all alone, a-cipher'n'
						out some new move er 'nuther, and whistling' low and solem' to
						hisse'f-like and a-payin' no attention to nobody.
					And I'll tell you, Wes Cotterl wuz no
						man's fool, as sly as you keep it! He wuz a deep thinker, Wes wuz; and ef he'd
						'a' jest turned that mind o' his loose on preachin', fer instunce, and the 'terpertation o' the Bible,
						don't you know, Wes 'ud 'a' worked p'ints out o' there
						'at nolivin' expounderers ever got in gunshot of!
					But Wes he didn't 'pear to be cut out fer nothin' much but jest
						Checker-playin'. Oh, of  course, he could knock round his own woodpile some, and garden a little, more er less; and
						the neighbers ust to find Wes purty handy 'bout trimmin' fruit-trees, you
						understand, and workin' in among the worms and cattapillers in the vines and
						shrubbery, and the like. And hand-lin' bees!They wuzn't no man under the
						heavens 'at knowed more 'bout handlin' bees'n Wes
						Cotterl!"Settlin'" the blame' things when they wuz a-swarmin';
						and a-robbin' hives, and all sich fool-resks. W'y, I've saw Wes Cotterl,
						'fore now, when a swarm of bees 'ud settle in a' orchard,like they will
						sometimes, you know,I've saw Wes Cotterl jest roll up his shirt-sleeves and bend
						down a' apple tree limb 'at wuz jest kivvered with the pesky things, and
						scrape 'em back into the hive with his naked hands, by the quart and gallon, and
						never git a scratch! You couldn't hire a bee to sting Wes
						Cotterl! But lazy?I think that man had railly ort to 'a'
						been a' Injun! He wuz the fust and on'y man 'at ever I laid eyes on
						'at wuz too lazy to drap a checker-man to p'int out the right road fer a
						feller 'at ast him onc't the way to Burke's Mill; and Wes, 'ithout
						ever a-liftin' eye er finger, jest sorto' crooked out that mouth o'
						his'n in the direction the feller wanted, and says: "H-yonder!" and went on with his whistlin'.  But all this hain't Checkers, and that's what I started out to
						tell ye.
					Wes had a way o' jest natchurly a-cleanin' out anybody and ever'body
						'at 'ud he'p hold up a checker-board! Wes wuzn't what you'd
						call a lively player at all, ner a competiter 'at talked much
						'crost the board er made much furse over a game whiles he wuz
						a-playin'. He had his faults, o' course, and would take back
						moves 'casion'ly, er inch up on you ef you didn't watch him, mebby. But,
							as a rule, Wes had the insight to grasp the idy of whoever wuz
						a-playin' ag'in' him, and his style o' game, you
						understand, and wuz on the lookout continual'; and under sich circumstances could play as honest a game o' Checkers as the
						babe unborn.
					One thing in Wes's favor allus wuz the feller's
						temper.Nothin' 'peared to aggervate Wes, and nothin' on earth could break
						his slow and lazy way o' takin' his own time fer ever'thing. You jest couldn't crowd Wes er git him rattled anyway.Jest 'peared to
						have one fixed principle, and that wuz to take plenty o' time, and never make no
						move 'ithout a-ciphern'n' ahead on the prob'ble consequences,
						don't you understand! "Be shore you're right," Wes 'ud say,
						a-lettin' up fer a second on that low and sorry-like 
						little wind-through-the-keyhole whistle o' his, and a-nosin' out a place whur
						he could swap one man fer two."Be shore you're right"and
						somep'n' after this style wuz Wes's way: "Be shore you're
						right"(whistling a long, lonesome bar of "Barbara Allen")"and
						then"(another long, retarded bar)"go ahead!"and by the time the feller
						'ud git through with his whistlin', and a-stoppin' and a-startin' in
						ag'in, he'd be about three men ahead to your one. And then he'd jest go
						on with his whistlin' 'sef nothin' had happened, and mebby you a-jest
						a-rearin' and a-callin' him all the mean outlandish, ornry names 'at you
						could lay tongue to.
					But Wes's good nature, I reckon, was the thing 'at he'ped him out as
						much as any other p'ints the feller had. And Wes 'ud attus win,
							in the long run!I don't keer who played ag'inst him!
						It was on'y a question o' time with Wes o' waxin' it to the best of
						'em. Lots o' players has tackled Wes, and right at the start 'ud mebby give him trouble,but in the long
							run, now mind yein the long run, no mortal man, I reckon, had
						any business o' rubbin' knees with Wes Cotterl under no airthly checker-board
						in all this vale o' tears!
					I mind onc't th' come along a high-toned 
						feller from in around In'i'nop 'lus somers.Wuz a lawyer, er some p'fessional kind o' man. Had a big
						yaller, luther-kivvered book under his arm, and a bunch o' these-'ere big
							envelop's and a lot o' suppeenies stickin' out
						o' his breast-pocket. Mighty slick-lookin' feller he wuz; wore a stove-pipe
						hat, sorto' set 'way back on his headso's to show off his Giner'l
						Jackson forr'ed, don't you know! Well-sir, this feller struck the place, on
						some business er other, and then missed the hack 'at ort to
						'a' tuk him out o' here sooner'n it did take him
						out!And whiles he wuz a-loafin' round, sorto' lonesomelike a feller allus is in a strange place, you knowhe kindo' drapped in on our crowd at
						the Shoe-Shop, ostenchably to git a boot-strop stitched on, but I
						knowed, the minute he set foot in the door, 'at that feller
						wanted comp'ny wuss'n cobbling'.
					
					Well, as good luck would have it, there set Wes, as usual, with the checker-board in
						his lap, a-playin' all by hisse'f, and a-whistlin' so low and
						solem'-like and sad it railly made the crowd seem like a religious getherun' o' some kind er other, we wuz all so quiet and
						still-like, as the man come in.
					Well, the stranger stated his business, set down, tuk off his boot, and set there
						nussin' his  foot and talkin' weather fer ten
						minutes, I reckon, 'fore he ever 'peared to notice Wes at all. We wuz all
						back'ard, anyhow, 'bout talkin' much; besides, we knowed, long afore he
						come in, all about how hot the weather wuz, and the pore chance there wuz o' rain,
						and all that; and so the subject had purty well died out, when jest then the
						feller's eyes struck Wes and the checker-board,and I'll never fergit the warm,
						salvation smile 'at flashed over him 'at the promisin' discovery. "What!" says he, a-grinnin' like a' angel and
						a-edgin' his cheer to'rds Wes, "have we a checker-board and checkers
						here?"
					"We hev," says I, knowin' 'at Wes wouldn't let go o' that
						whistle long enough to answermore'n to mebby nod his head.
					"And who is your best player?" says the feller, kindo' pitiful-like,
						with another inquirin' look atWes.
					"Him," says I, a-pokin' Wes with a peg-float. But Wes on'y spit
						kindo' absent-like, and went on with his whistlin'.
					"Much of a player, is he?" says the feller, with a sorto' doubtful smile
						at Wes ag'in.
					"Plays a purty good hick'ry," says I, a-pokin' Wes ag'in.
						"Wes," says I, "here's a gentleman 'at 'ud mebby like to
						take a hand  with you there, and give you a few
						idys," says I.
					"Yes," says the stranger, eager-like, a-settin' his plug-hat
						keerful' up in the empty shelvin', and a-rubbin' his hands and
						smilin' as confident-like as old Hoyle hisse'f,"Yes, indeed, I'd be
						glad to give the gentleman" (meanin' Wes) "a' idy er two about
						Checkersef he'd jest as lief,'cause I reckon ef
						there're any one thing 'at I do know more about 'an
						another, it's Checkers," says he; "and there're no game 'at
						delights me morepervidin', o' course, I find a competiter
						'at kin make it anyways interestin'."
					"Got much of a rickord on Checkers?" says I.
					"Well," says the feller, "I don't like to brag, but I've never
							ben beatin any legitimut contest," says he,
						"and I've played more'n one o' them," he
						says, "here and there round the country. Of course, your friend
						here," he went on, smilin' sociable at Wes, "he'll
						take it all in good part ef I should happen to lead him a littlejest as I'd do," he says, "ef it wuz possible fer him to lead me."
					
					
						"Wes," says I, "has warmed the wax in
						the yeers of some mighty good checker-players," says I, as he squared the board
						around, still a-whistlin'  to hisse'f-like, as
						the stranger tuk his place, a-smilin'-like and roachin' back his hair.
					"Move," says Wes.
					"No," says the feller, with a polite flourish of his hand; "the first
						move shall be your'n." And, by jacks! fer all he wouldn't take even the
						advantage of a starter, he flaxed it to Wes the fust game in less'n fifteen
						minutes.
					"Right shore you've give' me your best player?" he says,
						smilin' round at the crowd, as Wes set squarin' the board fer another game and
						whistlin' as onconcerned-like as ef nothin' had happened more'n
						ordinary.
					"'S your move," says Wes, a-squintin' out into the game 'bout
						forty foot from shore, and a-whistlin' purt' nigh in a whisper.
					Well-sir, it 'peared-like the feller railly didn't try to
						play; and you could see, too, 'at Wes knowed he'd about met his match, and
						played accordin'. He didn't make no move at all 'at he didn't give
						keerful thought to; whilse the feller! well, as I wuz sayin', it jest
						'peared-like Checkers wuz child's-play fer
						him! Putt in most o' the time 'long througth the game a-sayin' things
						calkilated to kindo' bore a' ordinary man. But Wes helt hisse'f purty
						level, and didn't show no signs, and kep' up his whistlin', mighty wellconsiderin'.
					
					"Reckon you play the fiddle, too, as well as Checkers?" says the feller, laughin', as Wes come a-whistlin' out
						of the little end of the second game and went on a-fixin' fer the next round.
					"'S my move!" says Wes 'thout seemin' to notice the
						feller's tantalizin' words whatsomever.
					"'"L! this time," thinks I, "Mr. Smarty from
						the metrolopin deestricts, you're liable to git
							waxedshore!" But the feller didn't
						'pear to think so at all, and played right ahead as glib-like and keerless as
						ever'casion'ly a-throwin' in them sarcastic remarks o'
						his'n,'bout bein' "slow and shore" 'bout things in
						gineral"Liked to see that," he said:"Liked to see
						fellers do things with plenty o' deliberation, and even ef a
						feller wuzn't much of a checker-player, liked to see him die slow anyhow!and then 'tend his own
						funeral," he says,and march in the p'sessionto his own music," says he.And jest then his remarks wuz brung to a close by Wes
						a-jumpin' two men, and a-lightin square in the king-row. . ..
					"Crown that," says Wes, a-droppin' back into his old tune. And fer the
						rest o' that game Wes helt the feller purty level, but had to
						finally knock underbut by jest the clos'test kind o' shave o'
						winnin'.
					
					"They ain't much use," says the feller, "o' keepin' this thing up'less I could manage, some way er
						other, to git beat onc't'n a while!"
					"Move," says Wes, a-drappin' back into the same old whistle and a-settlin' there.
					"'Music has charms,' as the Good Book tells us," says the feller,
						kindo' nervous-like, and a-roachin' his hair back as ef some sort o'
						p'tracted headache wuz a-settin' in.
					"Never wuz 'skunked,' wuz ye?" says Wes,
						kindo' suddent-like, with a fur-off look in them big white eyes o' hisand then
						a-whistlin' right on, 'set he hadn't said nothin.'
					"Not much!" says the feller, sorto'
						s'prised-like, as ef such a' idy as that had never struck him
						afore."Never was 'skunked' myse'f: but I've
						saw fellers in my time 'at wuz!" says he.
					But from that time on I noticed the feller 'peared to play more keerful, and
						railly la'nched into the game with somepin' like inter'st. Wes he seemed
						to be jest a-limberin'-up-like; and-sir, blame me! ef he didn't walk the
						feller's log fer him that time, 'thout no 'pearent
						trouble at all!
					"And, now," says Wes, all quiet-like, a-squar-in' the
						board fer another'n,"we're kindo' gittin' at things right. Move." And away went that little unconcerned whistle o'
						his ag'in, and 
						Mr. Cityman jest gittin' white and sweaty toohe wuz so nervous.
						Ner he didn't 'pear to find much to laugh at in the next gamener the next two
						games nuther! Things wuz a-gettin' mighty interestin' 'bout them times,
						and I guess the feller wuz ser'ous-like a-wakin' up to the solem' fact
						'at it tuk 'bout all his spare time to keep up his end o' the row, and
						even that state o' 'pore satisfaction wuz a-creepin' furder and furder
						away from him ever' new turn he undertook. Whilse Wes jest 'peared to git more
						deliber't' and certain ever' game;and that unendin'
						se'f-satisfied and comfortin' little whistle o' his never drapped a
						stitch, but toed out ever' game alike,to'rds the last, and,
						fer the most part, disasterss to the feller 'at had started in
						with sich confidence and actchul promise, don't you know
					Well-sir, the feller stuck the whole forenoon out, and then the afternoon; and then knuckled down to it 'way into the nightyes, and
						plum midnight!And he buckled into the thing bright and airly next morning! And-sir, fer two long days and nights,
						a-hardly a-stoppin' long enough to eat, the feller stuck it out,and Wes a-jest
						a-warpin' it to him hand-over-fist, and leavin' him furder behind, ever'
						game!till finally, to'rds the last, the feller got so blame-don worked up and
						excited-like, he jes 'peared  actchully purt'
						nigh plum crazy and histurical as a woman!
					It wuz a-gittin' late into the shank of the second day, and the boys hed jest lit
						a candle fer 'em to finish out one of the clost'est games the feller'd
						played Wes fer some time. But Wes wuz jest as cool and ca'm as ever, and still
						a-whistlin' consolin' to hisse'f-like, whilse the feller jest
						'peared wore out and ready to drap right in his tracks any minute.
					"Dune you!" he snarled out at Wes, "hain't you
						never goern to move?" And there set Wes, a-balancin' a checker-man above the
						board, a-studyin' whur to set it, and a-fillin' in the time with that-air
						whistle.
					"Flames and flashes!" says the feller ag'in,
						"will you ever stop that death-seducin' tune o'
						your'n long enough to move?"And as Wes deliber't'ly set his man down
						whur the feller see he'd haf to jump it and lose two men and a king, Wes wuz
						a-singin', low and sad-like, as of all to hisse'f:
					
						"O we'll move that man, and leave him there.
						
							Fer the love of B-a-r-bbry Al-len!"
					
					Well-sir! the feller jest jumped to his feet, upset the board, and tore out u' the
						shop stark-starin' crazyblame of he wuzn't!'cause  some of us putt out after him and overtook him 'way beyent the
						'pike-bridge, and hollered to him;and he shuk his fist at us and hollered back and
						says, says he: "Ef you fellers over here," says he, "'ll agree to
							muzzle that durn checker-player o' your'n, I'll bet
						fifteen hunderd dollars to fifteen cents 'at I kin beat him 'leven games out
						of ever' dozent!But there're no money," he says, "'at kin hire
						me to play him conditions'cause that durn, eternal, infernal, dad-blasted whistle
						o' his 'ud beat the oldest man in Ameriky!"
				
				
				
					Sweet-Knot and Calamus
					
					
						AN OLD SWEETHEART
						
							
								AS ONE who cons at evening o'er an album all alone,
							And muses on the faces of the friends that he has Known,
							So I turn leaves of fancy till, in shadowy design,
							I find the smiling features of an old sweetheart of mine.
						
						
							The lamplight seems to glimmer with a flicker of surprise,
							As I turn it low to rest me of the dazzle in my eyes,
							And light my pipe in silence, save a sight that seems to yoke
							Its fate with my tobacco and to vanish with the smoke.
						
						
							"Tis a fragrant retrospectionfor the loving thoughts that start
							Into being are like perfumes from the blossom of the heart;
							And to dream the old dreams over is a luxury divine
							When my truant fancy wanders with that old sweetheart Of mine.
						
						
							Though I hear, beneath my study, like a fluttering of wings,
							The voices of my children, and the mother as she sings,
							I feel no twinge of conscience to deny me any theme
							When care has cast her anchor in the harbor of a dream.
						
						
							In fact, to speak in earnest, I believe it adds a charm
							To spice the good a trifle with a little dust of harm
							For I find an extra flavor in Memory's mellow wine
							That makes me drink the deeper to that old sweetheart of mine.
						
						
							A face of lily-beauty, with a form of airy grace,
							Floats out of my tobacco as the genii from the vase
							
							And I thrill beneath the glances of a pair of azure eyes
							As glowing as the summer and as tender as the skies.
						
						
							I can see the pink sunbonnet and the little checkered dress
							She wore when first I kissed her and she answered the caress
							With the written declaration that, "as surely as the vine
							Grew 'round the stump," she loved methat old sweet-heart of
								mine.
						
						
							And again I feel the pressure of her slender little hand,
							As we used to talk together of the future we had planned
							When I should be a poet, and with nothing else to do
							But write the tender verses that she set the music to:
						
						
							When we should live together in a cozy little cot
							Hid in a nest of roses, with a fairy garden-spot,
							Where the vines were ever fruited, and the weather ever fine,
							And the birds were ever singing for that old sweetheart of mine:
						
						
							When I should be her lover forever and a day,
							And she my faithful sweetheart till the golden hair was gray;
							And we should be so happy that when either's lips were dumb
							They would not smile in Heaven till the other's kiss had come.
						
						
							But, ah! My dream is broken by a step upon the stair,
							And the door is softly opened, andmy wife is standing there;
							Yet with eagerness and rapture all my visions I resign
							To greet the living presence of that old sweetheart of mine.
						
					
					
					
						MARTHY ELLEN.
						
							
								THEY'S NOTHIN' in the name to strike
							A feller more'n common like
							'Taint liable to git no praise
							Ner nothin' like it nowadays;
							An' yit that name o' her'n is jest
							As purty as the purtiest
							And more 'n that, I 'm here to say
							I'll live a-thinkin' thataway
							And die fer Marthy Ellen!
						
						
							It may be I was prejust
							In favor of it from the fust
							'Cause I kin recollect jest how
							We met, and hear her mother now
							A-callin' of her down the road
							And, aggervatin' little toad!
							I see her now, jes' sort o' half-
							Way disapp'inted, turn and laugh
							And mock her" Marthy Ellen!"
						
						
							Our people never had no fuss,
							And yit they never tuck to us;
							We neighbered back and foreds some;
							Until they see she liked to come
							Were nest together ever'whur
							And all the timeand when they'd see
							That I liked her and she liked me,
							They'd holler "Marthy Ellen!"
						
						
						
							When we growed up, and they shet down
							On me and her a-runnin' roun'
							Together, and her father said
							He 'd never leave her nary red,
							So he'p him, ef she married me,
							And so onand her mother she
							Jest agged the gyrl, and said she 'lowed
							She 'd ruther see her in her shroud,
							I writ to Marthy Ellen
						
						
							That is, I kindo' tuck my pen
							In hand, and stated whur and when
							The undersigned would be that night,
							With two good hosses saddled right
							Fer lively travelin' in case
							Her folks 'ud like to jine the race.
							She sent the same note back, and writ
							"The rose is red!" right under it
							"Your'n allus, Marthy Ellen."
						
						
							That's all, I reckonNothin' more
							To tell but what you've heerd afore
							The same old story, sweeter though
							Fer all the trouble, do n't you know.
							Old-fashioned name! and yit it's jest
							As purty as the purtiest;
							And more'n that, I'm here to say
							I'll live a-thinking thataway,
							And die fer Marthy Ellen!
						
					
					
					
						MOON-DROWNED.
						
							
								I WAS THE HEIGHT of the fete when we quitted the riot,
							And quietly stole to the terrace alone,
							Where, pale as the lovers that ever swear by it,
							The moon it gazed down as a god from his throne.
							We stood there enchanted.And O the delight of
							The sight of the stars and the moon and the sea,
							And the infinite skies of that opulent night of
							Purple and gold and ivory!
						
						
							The lisp of the lip of the ripple just under
							The half-awake nightingale's dream in the yews
							Came up from the water, and down from the wonder
							Of shadowy foliage, drowsed with the dews,
							Unsteady the firefly's taperunsteady
							The poise of the stars, and their light in the tide,
							As it struggled and writhed in caress of the eddy,
							As love in the billowy breast of a bride.
						
						
							The far-away lilt of the waltz rippled to us,
							And through us the exquisite thrill of the air:
							Like the scent of bruised bloom was her breath, and its dew was
							Not honier-sweet than her warm kisses were.
							We stood there enhanced. And O the delight of
							The sight of the stars and the moon nad the sea,
							And the infinite skies of that opulent night of
							Purple and gold and ivory!
						
					
					
					
						LONG AFORE HE KNOWED WHO SANDY. CLAUS WUZ
						
							
								JES' A LITTLE bit o' fellerI remember still,
							Ust to almost cry fer Christmas, like a youngster will.
							Fourth o'July's nothin' to it!New-Year's ai n't a
								smell:
							Easter-SundayCircus-dayjes' all dead in the shell!
							Lordy, though! At night, you know, to set around and hear
							The old folks work the story off about the sledge and deer,
							And "Santy" skootin' round the roof, all wrapped in fur and
								fuzz
							Long afore
							I knowed who
							"Santy-claus"wuz!
						
						
							Ust to wait, and set up late, a week er two ahead:
							Could n't hardly keep awake, ner would n't go to bed:
							Kittle stewin' on the fire, and Mother. Settin' here
							Darnin' socks, and rockin' in the skreeky rockin'-cheer;
							Pap gap' and wunder where it wuz the money went,
							And quar'l with his frosted heels, and spill his liniment?
							And me a-dreamin' sleigh-bells when the clock 'ud whir and
								buzz,
							Long afore
							I knowed who
							"Santy-Claus"wuz!
						
						
							Size the fire-place up, and figger how "Old Santy "could
							Manage to come down the chimbly, like they said he would:
							Wisht that I could hide and see himwundered what he'd say
							Ef he ketched a feller layin' fer him thataway!
							
							But I bet on him, and liked him, same as
								ef he had
							Turned to pat me on the back and say, "Look here, my lad,
							Here's my pack,jes' he'p yourse'f, like all good boys
								does!"
							Long afore
							I knowed who
							"Santy-Claus"wuz!
						
						
							Whist that yarm was true about him, as it 'prepared to be
							Truth made out o' lies that-un's good enough fer me!
							Wisht I still Wuz so confidin' I could jes' go wild
							Over hanfin' up my stockin's, like the little child
							Climbin' in my lab to night, and beggin' "me to tell
							'Bout them reindeers, and "old Santy" that she loves so
								well
							I'm half sorry fer this little-girl-sweetheart of his
							Long afore
							She knows who
							"Santy-claus" is!
						
					
					
					
						DEAR HANDS
						
							
								THE TOUCHES of her hands are like the fall of verlet
								snowflakes;like the touch of down
							The peach just brushes 'gainst the garden wall;
							The flossy findings of the thistle-wisp
							Caught in the crinkle of a leaf of brown
							The blighting frost hath turned from green to crisp.
						
						
							Soft as the falling of the dusk at night,
							The touches of her hands, and the delight
							The touches of her hands!
							The touches of her hands are like the dew
							That falls so softly down no one e'er knew
							The touch thereof save lovers like to one
							Astray in lights where ranged Endynmion.
						
						
							O rarely soft, the touches of her hands,
							As drowsy zephyrs in enhanced lands;
							Or pulse of dying fay; or fairy sights;
							Orin between the midnight and the dawn,
							When long unrest and tears and fears are gone
							Sleep, smoothing down the lids of weary eyes.
						
					
					
					
						THIS MAN JONES
						
							
								THIS MAN JONES was what you'd call
							A feller ' at had no stand at all;
							Kind o' consumpted, and undersize,
							And sallor-complected, with big sad eyes,
							And a kind-of-a sort-of-a hang-dog style,
							And a sneakin' sort-of-a half way smile
							'At kind O' give him away to us
							As a Preacher, maybe, er somepin' wuss.
						
						
							Didn't take with the gangwell, no
							But still we managed to use him, through,
							Coddin' the gilly along the rout',
							And drivin' the stakes ' at he pulled out
							Fer I was one of the bosses then,
							And of course stood in with the canvasmen;
							And the way we put up jobs, ou know,
							On this man Jones jes' beat the show!
						
						
							Ust to rattle him scandalous,
							And keep the feller a-dodgin' us,
							And a-Shyin' round half skeered to death,
							And afeered to whimper above his breath;
							Give him a cussin', and then a kick,
							And then a kind-of a back-hand lick
							Jes' fer the fun of seein' him climb
							Around with a head on most the time.
						
						
							But what was the curioust thing to me,
							Was along o' the partylet me see,
							Who was our "Lion Queen" Last year?
							Mamzelle Zanty, or De La Pierre?
							Well, no mattera stunin' mash,
							With a red ripe lip, and a long eye-lash,
							And a figger sich as the angels owns
							And one too many fer this manJones.
						
						
						
							He'd allus wake in the afternoon,
							As the band waltzed in on the lion-tune,
							And there, from the time 'at she 'd go in
							Till she 'd back out of the cage agin,
							He'd stand, shaky and limber-kneed
							'Specially when she come to "feed
							The beasts raw meat with her naked hand"
							And all that business, you understand.
						
						
							And it was risky in that den
							Fer I think she juggled three cubs then,
							And a big "green" lion 'at used to smash
							Collar-bones fer old Frank Nash;
							And I reckon now she hain't fergot
							The afternoon old "Nero" sot
							His paws on her!but as fer me,
							It's a sort-of-a mixed-up mystery:
						
						
							Kind o'remember an awful roar,
							And see her back fer the bolted door
							See the cage rockheerd her call
							"God have mercy!" and that was all
							Fer they ain't no livin' man can tell
							
								What it's like when a thousand yell
							In female tones, and a thousand more
							Howl in bass till their throats is sore!
						
						
							But the keeper said 'at dragged her out,
							They heerd some feller laugh and shout
							"Save her! Quick! I 've got the cuss!"
							And yit she waked and smiled on us!
							
							And we dare n't flinch, fer the doctor said,
							Seein' as this man Jones was dead,
							Better to jes' not let her know
							Nothin' o' that fer a week er so.
						
					
					
					
						TO MY GOOD MASTER.
						
							
								IN FANCY, always, at thy desk, thrown wide,
							Thy most betreasured books ranged neighborly
							The rarest rhymes of every land and sea
							And curious tonguethine old face glorified,
							Thou haltest thy glib quili, and, laugh ing-eyed,
							Givest hale welcome even unto me,
							Profaning thus thine attic's sanctity,
							To briefly visit, yet to still abide
							Enthralled there of thy sorcery of wit,
							And thy songs' most exceeding dear conceits.
							O lips, cleft to the ripe core of all sweets,
							With poems, like nectar, issuing therefrom,
							Thy gentle utterances do overcome
							My listening and all the love of it!
						
					
					
					
						WHEN THE GREEN GITS BACK IN THE TREES.
						
							
								IN SPRING, when the green gits back in the trees,
							And the sun comes out and stays,
							And yer boots pulls on with a good tight squeeze,
							And you think of yer barefoot days;
							When you ort to work and you want to not,
							And you and yer wife agrees
							It's time to spade up the garden lot,
							When the green gits back in the trees
							Well! work is the least o' my idees
							When the green, you know, gits back in the trees!
						
						
							When the green gits back in the trees, and bees
							Is a buzzln' around' agin,
							In that kind of a lazy go-as-you-please
							Old gait they bum roun' in;
							When the groun's al! bald where the hay-rick stood,
							And the crick's riz, and the breeze
							Coaxes the bloom in the old dogwood,
							And the green gits back in the trees,
							I like, as I say, in sich scenes as these,
							The time when the green gits back in the trees!
						
						
							When the whole tail-feathers o' winter time
							Is all pulled out and gone!
							And the sap it thaws and begins to climb,
							And the sweat it starts out on
							A feller's forred, a-gittin' down
							At the old spring on his knees
							I kind o' like jes' a-Ioaferin' roun'
							When the green gits back in the trees
							Jes' a-potterin' roun' as Idurnplease
							When the green, you know, gits back in the trees!
						
					
					
					
						AT BROAD RIPPLE.
						
							
								AH, LUXURY! Beyond the heat
							And dust of town, with dangling feet,
							Astride the rock below the dam,
							In the cool shadows where the calm
							Rests on the stream again, and all
							Is silent save the waterfall,
							I bait my book and cast my line,
							And feel the best of life is mine.
						
						
							No high ambition may I claim
							I angle not for lordly game
							Of my desires; and "goggle-eyes"
							Are not a thing that I despise;
							A sunfish, or a "chub," or "cat"
							A "silver-side"yea, even that!
						
						
							In eloquent tranquility
							The waters lisp and talk to me.
							Sometimes, far out, the surface breaks,
							As some proud bass an instant shakes
							His glittering armor in the sun,
							And romping ripples, one by one,
							Come dallying acrossthe space
							Where undulates my smiling face.
						
						
							The river's story flowing by,
							Forever sweet to ear and eye,
							Forever tenderly begun
							Forever new and never done.
							Thus lulled and sheltered in a shade
							Where never feverish cares invade,
							I bait may hook and cast my line,
							And feel the best of life is mine.
						
					
					
					
						WHEN OLD JACK DIED.
						
							I.
							
								WHEN old Jack died, we staid from school (they said,
							At home, we need n't go that day), and none
							Of us ate any breakfastonly one,
							And that was Papaand his eyes were red
							When he come round where we were, by the shed
							Where Jack was lying, half way in the sun
							And halfway in the shade. When we begun
							To cry out loud, Pa turned and dropped his head
							And went away; and Mamma, she went back
							Into the kitchen. Then, for a long while,
							All to ourselves, like, we stood there and cried.
							We thought so many good things of Old Jack,
							And funny thingsalthough we did n't smile
							We could n't only cry when Old Jack died.
						
						
							II.
							When Old Jack died, it seemed a human friend
							Had suddenly gone from us; that some face
							That we had loved to fondle and embrace
							From babyhood, no more would condescend
							To smile on us forever. We might bend
							With tearful eyes above him, interlace
							Our chubby fingers o'er him, romp and race,
							Plead with him, call and coaxaye, we might send
							The old halloo up for him, whistle, hist,
							(If sobs had let us) or, as wildly vain,
							Snapped thumbs, called "speak," and he had not replied;
							We might have gone down on our knees and kissed
							The tousled ears, and yet they must remain
							Deaf, motionless, we knewwhen Old Jack died.
						
						
						
							III.
							When Old Jack died, it seemed to us, some way,
							That all the other dogs in town were pained
							With our bereavement, and some that were chained,
							Even, unslipped their collars on that day
							To visit Jack in state, as though to pay
							A last, sad tribute there, while neighbors craned
							Their heads above the high board fence, and deigned
							To sigh "Poor dog!" remembering how they
							Had cuffed him, when alive, perchance, because,
							For love of them he leaped to lick their hands
							Now, that he could not, were they satisfied?
							We children thought that, as we crossed his paws,
							And o'er his grave, 'way down the bottom-lands,
							Wrote "Our First Love Lies Here," when Old Jack died
						
					
					
					
						DOC SIFERS.
						
							
								OF ALL THE DOCTORS I could cite you to in this-'ere town
							Doc Sifers is my favorite, jes' take him up and down!
							Count in the Bethel Neightberhood, and Rollins, and Big Bear,
							And Sifers' standin's jes' as good as ary doctor's
								there!
						
						
							There's ols Soc Wick, and Glenn, and Hall, and Wurgler, and
								McVeight,
							But I 'll buck Sifers ' ginst ' em all and down ' em any
								day!
							Most old Wick ever Knowed, I s'pose, was Whisky!
								Wurglerwell,
							He et morphineef actions shows, and facts' reliable!
						
						
							But Sifers'though he ain't you ve got a doctor,
								do n't fergit!
							When you git Sifers onc't, you ve got a
									doctor, do n't fergit!
							He ain't much at his office, er his house, er anywhere
							You 'd natchurly think certain fer to ketch the feller there.
						
						
							But do n' blame Doc: he's got all sorts o' cur'ous
								notionsas
							The feller says, his odd-come-shorts, like smart men mostly has.
							He ' ll more 'n like be potter 'n 'round the Blacksmith
								Shop; er in
							Some back lot, spadin' up the ground, er gradin' it agin.
						
						
							Er at the workbench, planin' things; er building' little traps
							To ketch birds; galvenizin' rings; er graftin' plums, perhaps.
							Make anything! Good as the best!a gunstocker a flute;
							He whittled out a set o' chesstmen one't o' laurel root,
						
						
						
							Durin' the Armygot his trade o' surgeon thereI own
							To-day a finger-ring Doc made out of a Sesesh bone!
							An' glued a fiddle onc't fer mejes' all so busted you
							'D a throwed the thing away, but he fixed her as good as new!
						
						
							And take Doc, now in ager, say, er biles, er rkeumatix,
							And all afflications thatway, and he't keerK-yore anything he tries
							Er jandersmilksickI do n't keerk-your anything he tries
							A abscess; getherin' in yer yeer; er granulated eyes!
						
						
							There was the Widder Daubenspeck they all give up fer dead;
							A blame cowbuncle on her neck, and clean out of her head!
							First had this doctor, what's his-name, from "Puddlesburg,"
								and die,
							This little red-head, "Burnin' Shame" they call himDr.
								Glenn.
						
						
							And they "consulted" on the case, and claimed she 'd haf to
								die,
							I jes' was joggin' by the place, and heerd her dorter cry,
							And stops and calls her to the fence; and I-says-I, "Let me
							Send Sifersbet you fifteen cents he'll k-yore her "Well,"
								says she,
						
						
							"Light out!" she says: And, lipp-tee-cut' I loped in town,
								and rid
							'Bout two hours more to find him, but I kussd him when I did!
							He was down at the Gunsmith Shop a-stuffin' birds! Says he,
							"My sulky's broke." Says I, "You hop right on and ride
								with me"
						
						
						
							I got him there."Well, Aunty, ten days K-yores you," Sifers
								said,
							'But what's yer idy livin' when yer jes' as good as
								dead?"
							And there's Dave Banksjes' back from war without a scratchone
								day
							Got ketched up in a sickle-bar, a reaper runaway.
						
						
							His shoulders, arms, and hands and legs jes' sawed in strips! And
								Jake
							Dunn starts fer Sifersfeller begs to shoot him fer Godsake.
							Doc, 'cours, was gone, but he had penned the notice, "At Big
								Bear
							Be back to-morry; Gone to 'tend Bee Convention there."
						
						
							But Jake, he tracked himrid and rode the whole endurin' night!
							And 'bout the time the roosters crowed they both hove into sight.
							Doc had to ampitate, but 'greed to save Dave's arms, and swore
							He could a-saved his legs ef he 'd ben there the day before
						
						
							Like when his wife's own mother died 'fore Sifers could be
								found,
							And all the neighbers fer and wide a' all jes' chasin'
								round;
							Tel finallI had to laughit's jes' like Doc, you know,
							Was learnin' fer to telegraph, down at the old deepo.
						
						
							But all they re' faultin' Sifers fer, there's none of
								'em kin say
							He's biggoty, er keerless, er not p[osted anyway;
							He ain't buit on the common plan of doctors now-a-days,
							He's jes' a great, big brainy manthat's where the trouble
								lays!
						
					
					
					
						AT NOONAND MIDNIGHT.
						
							
								FAR IN THE NIGHT, and yet no rest for him! The pillow next his
								own
							The wife's sweet face in slumber pressedyet he awakealone! Alone!
							In vain he courted sleep;one thought would ever in his heart arise,
							The harsh words that at noon had brought the teardrops to her eyes.
						
						
							Slowly on lifted arm he raised and listened. All was still as death;
							He touched her forehead as he gazed, and listened yet, with bated breath:
							Still silently, as though he prayed, his lips moved lightly as she slent
							For God was with him, and he laid his face with hers and wept.
						
					
				
				
				
					A Wild Irishman
					
					A WILD IRISHMAN.
					
						NOT very many years ago the writer was for some months stationed at
						South Bend, a thriving little city of northern Indians, its main population on the one
						side of the St. Joseph river, but quite a respectable fraction thereof taking its
						industrial way to the opposite shore, and there gaining an audience and a hearing in the
						rather imposing growth and hurly-burly of its big manufactories, and the consequent
						rapid appearance of multitudinous neat cottages, tenement houses and business blocks. A
						strsanger, entering South Bend proper on any ordinary day, will be at some loss to
						account for its prosperous appearanceits flagged and bowldered streetsits handsome
						mercantile blocks, banks, and business houses generally. Reasoning from cause to effect,
						and seeing but a meager sprinkling of people on the streets throughout the day, and
						these seeming, for the most part, merely idlers, and in no wise accessory to the evident
						thrift and opulence of their surroundings, the observant srranger will be puzzled at the
						situation. But when evening comes, and the outlying foundries, sewing-machine,  wagon, plow, and other "works," together with the
						paper-mills and all the nameless industrieswhen the operations of all these are
						suspended for the day, and the workmen and workwomen loosed from laborthen, as this vast
						army suddenly invades and overflows bridge, roadway, street and lane, the startled
						stranger will fully comprehend the why and wherefore of the city's high prosperity.
						And, once acquainted with the people there, the fortunate sojourner will find no
						ordinary culture and intelligence, and, as certainly, he will meet with a social spirit
						and a wholesouled heartiness that will make the place a lasting memory. The town, too,
						is tge home of many world-known notables, and a host of local celebrities, the chief of
						which latter class I found, during my stay there, in the person of Tommy Stafford, or
						"The Wild Irishman" as everybody called him.
					"Talk of odd fellows and eccentric characters," said Major Blowney, my
						employer, one afternoon, "you must see our 'Wild Irishman ' here before
						you say you 've yet found the queerest, brightest, cleverest chap in all your
						travels. What d'ye say, Stockford?" And the Major paused in his work of
						charging cartridges for his new breech-loading shotgun and turned to await his
						partner's response.
					
					Stockford, thus addressed, paused above the shield-sign he was lettering, slowly
						smiling as be dipped and trailed his pencil through the ivory black upon a bit of broken
						glass and said, in his deliberate, half-absent-minded way,"Is it Tommy you're
						telling him about?" and then, with a gradual broadening of the smile, he went on,
						"Well, I should say so. Tommy! What's come of the fellow, anyway? I
						haven't seen him since his last bout with the mayor, on his trial for shakin'
						up that fast-horse man."
					"The fast-horse man got just exactly what he needed, too," said the genial
						Major, laughing, and mopping his perspiring brow. "The fellow was barkin' up
						the wrong stump when he tackled Tommy! Got beat in the trade, athis own game, you know,
						ans wound up by an insult that on Irishman would take; and Tommu just naturally wore out
						the hall carpet of the old hotel with him!"
					"And then collared and led him to the mayor's office himself, they
						say!"
					"Oh, he did!" said the Major, with a dash of pride in the confirmation;
						"that's Tommy all over I"
					"Funny trial, was n't it?" continued the ruminating Stockford.
					"Was n't it though?" laughed the Major. 
						"The porter's testimony: You see, he was for Tommy, of course, and on
						wxamination testified that the horse-man struck Tommy first. And there Tommy broke in
						with:" He's a-meanin' well, yer Honor, but he's lyin' to
						yehe's lyin' to ye. No livin' man iver struck me firstnor last, nayther,
						for the matter o' that!' And I thoughtthecourtwoulddie!" concluded the
						Major, in a like imminent state of merriment.
					"Yes, and he said if he struck him first," supplemented Stockford, "he
						'd like to know why the horseman was ' wearin' all the black eyes, and
						the blood, and the boomps on the head of um!' And it's that talk of his that
						got him off with so light a fine!"
					"As it always does," said the Major, coming to himself abruptly and looking
						at his watch. "Stock', you say you 're not going along with our
						duck-shooting party this time? The old Kankakee is just lousy with 'em this season!
						'
					"Can't go possibly," said Stockford, "not on account of the work at
						all, but the folks at home ain't just as well as I 'd like to see them, and I
						'll stay here till they 're better. Next time I 'll try and be ready for
						you. Going to take Tommy, of course?'
					"Of course! Got to have ' ' The Wild Irishman'  with us! I ' m going around to find him now." Then turning to me
						the Major con tinued, "Suppose you get on your coat and hat and come along?
						It's the best chance you 'll ever have to meet Tommy. It's late anyhow,
						and Stockford '11 get along without you. Come on."
					"Certainly," said Stockford; "go ahead. And you can take him ducking,
						too, if he wants to go."
					"But he does n't want to goand won't go," replied the Major with a
						commiserative glance at me." Says he does n't know a duck from a poll
						parrotnor how to load a shotgunand could n't hit a house if he were inside of it
						and the door shut. Admits that he nearly killed his uncle once, on the other side of a
						tree, with a squirrel runnin' down it. Do n't want him along! '
					Reaching the street with the genial Major, he gave me this advice: "Now, when you
						meet Tommy, you must n't take all he says for dead earnest, and you must n't
						believe, be cause he talks loud, and in italics every other word, that he wants to do
						all the talking and won't be interfered with. That's the way he's apt to
						strike folks at firstbut it's their mis take, not his. Talk back to himcontrovert
						him whenever he's aggressive in the utterance  of his
						opinions, and if you're only honest in the announcement of your own ideas and
						beliefs, he 'll like you all the better for standing by them. He's
						quick-tempered, and perhaps a trifle sensitive, so share your greater patience with him,
						and he ' ll pay you back by fighting for you at the drop of the hat. In short,
						he's as nearly typical of his gallant country's brave, impetuous, fun-loving
						individuality as such a likeness can exist."
					"But is he quarrelsome?" I asked.
					"Not at all. There's the trouble. If he'd only quarrel there 'd be
						no harm done. Quarreling's cheap, and Tommy's extravagant. A big blacksmith
						here, the other day, kicked some boy out of his shop, and Tommy, on his cart, happened
						to be passing at the time; and he just jumped off without a word, and went in and worked
						on that fellow for about three minutes, with such disastrous results that they could
						n't tell his shop from a slaughter-house; paid an assault and battery fine, and
						gave the boy a dollar beside, and the whole thing was a positive luxury to him. But I
						guess we 'd better drop the subject, for here's his cart, and here's
						Tommy. Hi! there, you ' Fardown' Irish Mick!" called the Major, in
						affected antipathy, "been out raiding the honest farmers' hen-roosts again,
						have you?"
					
					We had halted at a corner grocery and produce store, as I took it, and the
						smooth-faced, shave-headed man in woolen shirt, short vest, and suspenderless trousers
						so boisterously addressed by the Major, was just lifting from the back of his cart a
						coop of cackling chickens.
					"Arrah! ye blasted Kerryonian I" replied the handsome fellow, depositing the
						coop on the curb and straightening his tall, slender figure; "I were jist thinking
						of yez and the ducks, and here ye come quackin' into the prisence of r'yalty,
						wid yer canvas-back suit upon ye and the shwim-skins bechuxt yer toes! How air yez,
						anyhowand air we startin' for the Kankakee by the nixt post?"
					"We 're to start just as soon as we get the boys together," said the
						Major, shaking hands. "The crowd's to be at Andrews' by 4, and it's
						fully that now; so come on at once. We 'll go 'round by Munson's and have
						Hi send a boy to look after your horse. Come; and I want to introduce my friend here to
						you, and we 'll all want to smoke and jabber a little in appropriate seclusion.
						Come on." And the impatient Major had linked arms with his hesitating ally and
						myself, and was turning the corner of the street.
					"It's an hour's work I have yet wid the squawkers," mildly
						protested Tommy, still  hanging back and stepping a trifle
						high; "but, as one Irishman would say til another, 'Ye ' re wrong, but
						I'm wid ye!'"
					And five minutes later the three of us had joined a very jolly party in a snug back
						room, with 
							
								"The chamber walls depicted all around
								With portraitures of huntsman, hawk, and hound,
								And the hurt deer;"
							
						 and where, as well, drifted over the olfactory intelligence a certain subtle,
						warm-breathed aroma, that genially combatted the chill and darkness of the day without,
						and, resurrecting long-dead Christmases, brimmed the grateful memory with all
						comfortable cheer.
					A dozen hearty voices greeted the appearance of Tommy and the Major, the latter
						adroitly pushing the jovial Irishman to the front, with a mock-heroic introduction to
						the general company, at the conclusion of which Tommy, with his hat tucked under the
						left elbow, stood bowing with a grace of pose and presence Lord Chesterfield might have
						applauded.
					"Gintleman," said Tommy, settled back upon his heels and admiringly
						contemplating the group; "Gintlemen, I congratu-late yez wid a pride that shoves
						the thumbs o' me into the arrum-holes of me weshkit! At the inshtigation  of the bowld O'Blowneyaxin' the tongue of
						illoquence to para-lyze yez, but I tongue of illoquence to para-lyze yez, but I am
						present, as has been ripresinted, to jine wid yez in a stupendeous waste of gun-powder,
						and duck-shot, and 'high-wines,' and ham sand-witches, upon the silvonian
						banks of the ragin' Kankakee, where the 'di-dipper' tips ye good-bye wid
						his tail, and the wild loon skoots like a sky-rocket for his exiled home in the alien
						dunes of the wild morassor, as Tommy Moore so illegantly describes the blashted birrud
							
							
								'Away to the dizhmal shwamp the shpeeds
								His path is rugged and sore,
								Through tangled juniper, beds of reeds,
								And marry a fen where the serpent feeds,
								
									And birrud niver flew before
								
								
									And niver will fly any more
								
							
						 if iver he arrives back safe into civilization again andand I've been in the
						poultry business long enough to know the private opinion and personal integrity of ivery
						fowl that flies the air or roosts on poles. But, changin' the subject of my few
						small remarks here, and thankin yez wid an overflowin' heart but a dhry tongue, I
						have the honor to propose, gin-tlemen, long life and health to ivery mother's  son o' yez, and success to the ' Duck-hunters of
						Kankakee.'"
					"The duck-hunters of the Kankakee! "chorussed the elated party in such
						musical uproar that for a full minute the voice of the enthusiastic Majorwho was trying
						to say somethingcould not be heard. Then he said:
					"I want to propose that theme' The Duck-hunters of the Kankakee', for
						one of Tommy's improvisations. 'I moe we have a song now from Tommy on the
						'Duck-hunters of the Kankakee.'"
					"Hurra! Hurra! A song from Tommy," cried the crowd. "Make us up a song,
						and put us all into it I A song from Tommy! A song! A song!"
					There was a queer light in the eye of the Irishman. I observed him narrowlyexpectantly.
						Often I had read of this phenomenal art of improvised ballad-singing, but had always
						remained a little skeptical in regard to the possibility of such a feat. Even in the
						notable instances of this gift as displayed by the very clever Theodore Hook, I had
						always half suspected some prior preparationsome adroit forecasting of the sequence that
						seemed the instant inspiration of his witty versus.  Here
						was evidently to be a test example, and I was all alert to mark its minutest detail.
					The clamor had subsided, and Tommy had drawn a chair near to and directly fronting the
						Major's. His right hand was extended, closely grasping the right hand of his friend
						which he scarce perceptibly, though measur-edly, lifted and let fall throughout the
						length of all the curious performance. The voice was not unmusical, nor was the quaint
						old ballad-air adopted by the singer unlovely in the least; simply a monotony was
						evident that accorded with the levity and chance-finish of the improvisationand that the
						song was improved on the instant I am certainthough in no wise remarkable, for other
						reasons, in rhythmic worth or finish. And while his smiling auditors all drew nearer,
						and leant, with parted lips to catch every syllable, the words of the strange melody
						trailed unhesitatingly into the lines literally as here subjoined:
					
						"One gloomy day in the airly Fall,
						Whin the subshine had no chance at all
						No chance at all for to gleam and shine
						And lighten up this heart of mine:
					
					
						"'Twas in South Bend, that famous town,
						Whilst I were a strollin' round and round,
						I met some friends and they say to me:
						'It's a hunt we'll take on the Kankakee!'"
					
					
					"Hurra for the Kankakee! Give it to us, Tommy!' cried an enthused voice
						between verses. "Now give it to the Major! "And the song went on:
					
						"There's Major Blowney leads the van,
						As crack a shot as an Irishman,
						For it's the duck is a tin decoy
						That his owld shotgun can't destroy;
					
					And a half a dozen jubilant palms patted the Major's shoulders, and his ruddy,
						good-natured face beamed with delight. "Now give it to the rest of 'em,
						Tommy!"chuckled the Major. And the song continued:
					
						"And along wid 'Hank' is Mick Maharr,
						And Barney Pince, at 'The Shamrock' bar
						There's Barney Pinch, wid his heart so true;
						And the Andrews Brothers they'll go too."
					
					Hold on, Tommy!" chipped in oned of the Andrews; "you must give 'the
						Andrews Brothers ' a better advertisement than that! Turn us on a full verse,
						can't you?"
					"Make 'em pay for it if you do!"said the Major, in an undertone. And
						Tommy promptly amended:
					
						"O, the Andrews Brothers, they'll be there
						Wid good se-gyars and wine to shpare,
						They'll that us here on fine champagne,
						And whin we're there they'll treat us again."
					
					
					The applause here was vociferous, and only discountinued when a box of Havanas stood
						open on the table. During the momentary lull thus occasioned, I caught the Major's
						twinkling eyes glancing evasively toward me, as he leant whispering some further
						instructions to Tommy, who again took up his desultory ballad, while I turned and fled
						for the street, catching, however, as I went, and high above the laughter of the crowd,
						the satire of this quatrain to its latest line
					
						"But R-R Riley he'll not go, I guess,
						Lest he'd get lost in the wil der-ness,
						And so in the city he will shtop
						For to curl his hair in the barber shop."
					
					It was after six when I reached the hotel, but I had my hair trimmed before I went in
						to supper. The style of trimming adopted then I still rigidly adhere to, and call it
						"the Tommy Stafford stubble-crop."
					Ten days passed before I again saw the Major. Immediately upon his returnit was late
						afternoon when I heard of itI determined to take my evening walk out the long street
						toward his pleasant home and call upon him there. This I did, and found him in a
						wholesome state of fatigue, slippers and easy chair, enjoying his pipe on the piazza. Of
							 course, he was overflowing with happy reminiscences of
						the huntthe wood-and-water-craftboatsambushesdecoys, and tramp, and camp, and so on,
						without end;but I wanted to hear him talk of "The Wild Irishman "Tommy; and I
						think, too, now, that the sagacious Major secretly read my desires all the time. To be
						utterly frank with the reader I will admit that I not only think the Major divined my
						interest in Tommy, but I know he did; for at last, as though reading my very thoughts,
						he abruptly said, after a long pause, in which he knocked the ashes from his pipe and
						refilled and lighted it:"Well, all I know of ' The Wild Irishman ' I can
						tell you in a very few wordsthat is, if you care at all to listen?"And the crafty
						old Major seemed to hesitate.
					"Go ongo on!" I said, eagerly.
					"About forty years ago," resumed the Major, placidly, "in the little,
						old, unheard-of town Karnteel, County Tyrone, Province Ulster, Ireland, Tommy Staffordin
						spite of the contrary opinion of his wretchedly poor parentswas fortunate enough to be
						born. And here, again, as I advised you the other day, you must be prepared for constant
						surprises in the study of Tommy's character."
					
					"Go on," I said; "I 'm prepared for thing."
					The Major smiled profoundly and continued:
					"Fifteen years ago, when he came to Americaand the Lord only knows how he got the
						passage-moneyhe brought his widowed mother with him here, and has supported, and is
						still supporting her. Besides," went on the still secretly smiling Major, "the
						fellow has actually found time, through all his adversities, to pick up quite a
						smattering of education, here and there"
					"Poor fellow!" I broke in, sympathizingly, "what a pity it is that he
						could n't have had such advantages earlier in life," and as I recalled the
						broad brogue of the fellow, together with his careless dress, recognizing beneath in all
						the native talent and brilliancy of a mind of most uncommon worth, I could not restrain
						a deep sigh of comparison and regret.
					The Major was leaning forward in the gathering dusk, and evidently studying my own
						face, the expression of which, at that moment, was very grave and solemn, I am sure. He
						suddenly threw himself backward in his chair, I just can't keep it up any
						longer," he exclaimed.
					
					"Keep what up?" I queried, in a perfect maze of bewilderment and surprise.
						"Keep what up?" I repeated.
					"Why, all this twaddle, farce, travesty and by-play regarding Tommy! You know I
						warned you, over and over, and you must n't blame me for the deception. I never
						thought you 'd take it so in earnest!" and here the jovial Major again went
						into convulsions of laughter.
					"But I don't understand a word of it all," I cried, half frenzied with
						the gnarl and tangle of the whole affair. "What 'twaddle, farce and
						by-play,' is it anyhow?" And in mv vexation, I found myself on my feet and
						striding nervously up and down the paved walk that joined the street with the piazza,
						pausing at last and confronting the Major almost petulantly. "Please explain,"
						I said, controlling my vexation with an effort.
					The Major arose. "Your striding up and down there reminds me that a little stroll
						on the street might do us both good," he said. "Will you wait until I get a
						coat and hat?"
					He rejoined me a moment later, and we passed through the open gate; and saying,
						"Let's go down this way," he took my arm and turned into a street, where,
						cooling as the dusk was, the thick maples lining the walk,  seemed to throw a special shade of tranquil-ity upon us.
					"What I meant was"began the Major, in low, serious voice,"What I meant
						was simply this: Our friend Tommy, though the truest Irishman in the world, is a man
						quite the opposite everyway of the character he has appeared to you. All that rich
						brogue of his is assumed. Though he's poor, as I told you, when he came here, his
						native quickness, and his marvelous resources, tact, judgment, business qualitiesall
						have helped him to the the humorous and the ridiculous is unbounded; such times is as
						dignified and refined in speech and. He is a good speaker, can stir a political
						convention to fomentation when he gets fired up; and can write an article for the press
						that goes spang to the spot. He gets into a great many personal encounters of a rather
						undignified character; but they are almost invariably bred of his innate interest in the
						'under dog,' and the fire and tow of his impetuous nature."
					My companion had paused here, and was looking through some printed slips in his
						pocket-book. "I wanted you to see some of  the
						fellow's articles inprint, but I have nothing of importance hereonly some of his
						'doggerel,' as he calls it, and you' ve had a sample of that. But
						here's a bit of the upper spirit of the manand still another that you should hear
						him recite. You can keep them both if you care to. The boys all fell in love with that
						last one, particularly, hearing his rendition of it. So we had a lot printed, and I have
						two or three left. Put these two in your pocket and read at your leisure."
					But I read them there and then, as eagerly, too, as I append them here and now. The
						first is called
					
						SAYS HE.
						"Whatever the weather may be," says he
						"Whatever the weather may be,
						It's plaze, if ye wi;l an' I'll say me say,
						Supposin' to-day was the winterest day,
						Wud the weather be changing because ye cried,
						Or the snow be grass were ye crucified?
						The best is to make your own summer," says he,
						"Whatever the weather may be," says he
						"Whatever the weather may be!
					
					
						"Whatever the weather may be," says he
						"Whatever the weather may be,"
						It's the songs ye sing, an' the smiles ye wear,
						That's a-makin' the sunshine every where;
						An' the world of gloom is a world of glee,
						Wid the bird in the bush, an' the bud in the tree,
						An' the fruit on the stim of the bough," says he,
						"Whatever the weather may be," says he
						"Whatever the weather may be!
					
					
					
						"Whatever the weather may be," says he
						"Whatever the weather may be,
						Ye can bring the Spring, wid its green an' gold,
						An' the grass in the grove where the snow lies cold,
						An' ye '11 warm yer back, wid a smiling face,
						As ye sit at yer heart like an owld fire-place,
						An' toast the toes o'yer soul," says he,
						"Whatever the weather may be!" says he
						"Whatever the weather may be!"
					
					"Now," said the Major, peering eagerly above my shoulder, "go on with
						the next. To my liking, it is even better than the first. A type of character you
						'll recognize.The same ' broth of a boy,' only Americanized, don't you know."
					And I read the scrap entitled
					
						CHAIRLEY BURKE.
						It's Chairley Burke's in town, b'ys! He's down till
							"Jamesy's Place,"
						Wid a bran' new shave upon 'um, an' the fhwhuskers aff his
							face;
						He's quit the Section Gang last night, and yez can chalk it down,
						There's goin' to be the divil's toime, sence Chairley
							Burke's in town.
					
					
						It's treatin's iv'ry b'y he is, an' poundin' on
							the bar
						Till iv'ry man he's drinkin' wid must shmoke a foine cigar;
						An' Missus Murphy's little Kate, that's comin' there for
							beer,
						Can't pay wan cint the bucketful, the whilst that Chairley's
							here!
					
					
					
						He's joompin's oor the tops o'sthools, the both forninst
							an' back!
						He'll have yez pick the blessed flure, an' walk the straightest
							crack!
						He's liftin' barrels wid his teeth, and singin' "Garry
							Owen,"
						Till all the house be strikin' hands, sense Chairley Burke's in
							town.
					
					
						The Road-Yaird hands comes dhroppin'in, an' niver goin'
							back;
						An' there's two freights upon the switchthe wan on aither track
						An' Mr. Gearry, from The Shops, he's made enough to swear,
						An' durst n't spake a word but grin, the whilst that Chairley's
							there!
					
					
						Oh! Chairley! Chairley! Chairley Burke! ye divil, wid yer ways
						O' dhrivin's all the throubles aff, these dark an' gloomy
							days!
						Ohone! that it's meself, wid all the griefs I have to drown,
						Must lave me pick to resht a bit, sence Chairley Burke's in town!
					
					"Before we turn back, now," said the smiling Major, as I stood lingering over
						the indefinable humor of the last refrain, "before we turn back I want to show you
						something eminently characteristic. Come this way a half dozen steps."
					As he spoke I looked up, to first observe that we had paused before a handsome square
						brick residence, centering a beautiful smooth  lawn, its
						emerald only littered with the light gold of the earliest autumn leaves. On either side
						of the trim walk that led up from the gate to the carved stone ballusters of the broad
						piazza, with its empty easy chairs, were graceful vases, frothing over with late
						blossoms, and wreathed with laurel-looking vines; and, luxuriantly lacing the border of
						the pave that turned the further corner of the house, blue, white and crimson, pink and
						violet, went fading in perspective as my gaze followed the gesture of the
						Major's.
					"Here, come a little further. Now do you see that man there?"
					Yes, I could make out a figure in the deepening duskthe figure of a man on the back
						stoopa tired looking man, in his shirt-sleeves, who sat upon a low chairno, not a
						chairan empty box. He was leaning forward with his elbows on his knees, and the hands
						dropped limp. He was smoking, too, I could barely see his pipe, and but for the odor of
						very strong tobacco, would not have known he had a pipe. Why does the master of the
						house permit his servants to so desecrate this beautiful home? I thought.
					"Well, shall we go now?"said the Major.
					I turned silently and we retraced our steps.  I think
						neither of us spoke for the distance of a square.
					"Guess you did n't know the man there on the back porch?"said the
						Major.
					"No; why? "I asked dubiously.
					"I hardly thought you would, and besides the poor fellow's tired, and it was
						best not to disturb him," said the Major.
					"Why; who was itsome one I know?"
					"It was Tommy."
					"Oh," said I, inquiringly, "he's employed there in some
						capacity?"
					"You don't mean it?"
					"I certainly do. He owns it, and made every cent of the money that paid for
						it!" said the Major proudly. "That's why I wanted you particularly to
						note that ' eminent characteristic' I spoke of. Tommy could just as well be
						sitting, with a fine cigar, on the front piazza in an easy chair, as, with his dhudeen,
						on the back porch, on an empty box, where every night you 'll find him. Its the
						unconscious dropping back into the old ways of his father, and his father's father,
						and his father's father's father. In brief, he sits there the poor lorn symbol
						of the long oppression of his race."
				
				
				
					Ragweed and Fennel
					
					
						WHEN MY DREAMS COME TRUE.
						
							I.
							
								WHEN MY dreams come truewhen my dreams come true
							Shall lean from out my casement, in the starlight and the dew,
							To listensmile and listen to the tinkle of the strings
							Of the sweet guitar my lover's fingers fondle, as he sings?
							And as the nude moon slowly, slowly shoulders into view,
							Shall I vanish from his visionwhen my dreams come true?
						
						
							When my dreams come trueshall the simple gown I wear
							Be changed to softest satin, and my maiden-braided hair
							Be raveled into flossy mists of rarest, fairest gold,
							To be mented into kisses, more than any heart can hold?
							Or "the summer of my tresses" shall my lover liken to
							"The fervor of his passion"when my dreams come true?
						
						
							II.
							When my dreams come trueI shall bide among the sheaves
							Of happy harvest meadows; and the grasses and the leaves
							Shall lift and lean between me and the splendor of the sun,
							Till the noon swoons into twilight, and the gleaners' work is done
							Save that yet an arm shall bind me, evenas the reapers do
							The meanest sheaf of harvestwhen my dreams come true.
						
						
							When my dreams come true! when my dreams come true!
							True love in all simplicity is fresh and pure as dew;
							The blossom in the blackest mold is kindlier to the eye
							Than any lily born of pride that looms against the sky:
							And so it is I know my heart will gladly welcome you,
							My lowliest of lovers, when my dreams come true.
						
					
					
					
						A DOS'T O' BLUES,
						
							
								I'GOT NO patience with blues at all!
							And I ust to kindo talk
							Aginst 'em, and claim, 'tel along last Fall,
							They was none in the fambly stock;
							But a nephew of mine, from Eelinoy,
							That visited us last year,
							He kindo convinct me different
							While he was a-stayin' here.
						
						
							Frum ever'-which way that blues is from,
							They 'd tackle him ever' ways;
							They 'd come to him in the night, and come
							On Sundays, and rainy days;
							They 'd tackle him in corn-plantm' time,
							And in harvest, and airly Fall,
							But a dose't of blues in the wintertime,
							He 'lowed, was the worst of all!
						
						
							Said all diseases that ever he had
							The mumps, er the rheumatiz
							Er ever'-other-day-aigger's bad
							Purt' nigh as anything is!
							Er a cyarbuncle, say, on the back of his neck,
							Er a felon on his thumb,
							But you keep the blues away from him,
							And all o' the rest could corne!
						
						
							And he 'd moan, "They's nary a leaf below!
							Ner a spear o' grass in sight!
							And the whole wood-pile's clean under snow!
							And the days is dark as night!
							
							You can't go outner you can't stay in
							Lay downstand upner set!"
							And a tetch o' regular tyfoid-blues
							Would double him jest clean shet!
						
						
							I writ his parents a postal-kyard,
							He could stay 'tel Spring-time come;
							And Aprile first, as I rickollect,
							Was the day we shipped him home!
							Most o' his relatives, sence then,
							Has either give up, er quit,
							Er jest died off; but I understand
							He's the same old color yit!
						
					
					
					
						THE BAT
						
							I.
							
								THOU DREAD, uncanny thing,
							With fuzzy breast and leathern wing,
							In mad, zigzagging flight,
							Notching the dusk, and buffeting
							The black cheeks of the night,
							With grim delight!
						
						
							II.
							What witch's hand unhasps
							Thy keen claw-cornered wings
							From under the barn roof, and flings
							Thee forth, with chattering gasps,
							To scud the air,
							And nip the lady-bug, and tear
							Her children's hearts out unaware?
						
						
							III.
							The glow-worm's glimmer, and the bright,
							Sad pulsings of the fire-fiy's light,
							Are banquet lights to thee.
							O less than bird, and worse than beast,
							Thou Devil's self, or brat, at least,
							Grate not thy teeth at me!
						
					
					
					
						THE WAY IT WUZ.
						
							
								LAS' JULYan', I persume
							'Bout as hot
							As the ole Gran'-Jury room
							Where they sot!
							Fight 'twixt Mike an' Dock McGriff
							'Pears to me jes' like as if
							I 'd a dremp' the whole blame thing
							Allus ha'nts me roun' the gizzard
							When they 're nightmares on the wing,
							An' a feller's blood's jes' friz!
							Seed the row from a to izzard
							'Cause I wuz a-standin' as clost to 'em
							As me an' you is!
						
						
							Tell you the way it wuz
							An' I do n't want to see,
							Like some fellers does,
							When they 're goern to be
							Any kind o' fuss
							On'y makes a rumpus wuss
							Fer to interfere
							When their dander's riz
							But I wuz a-standin' as clost to 'em
							As me an' you is!
						
						
							I wuz kind o' strayin'
							Past the blame saloon
							Heerd some fiddler playin'
							That"ole hee-cup tune!"
							Sort o' stopped, you know,
							Fer a minit er so,
							And wuz jes' about
						
						
						
							Settin' down, whenFeemses whizz!
							
							Whole durn winder-sash fell out!
							An' there laid Doc McGriff, and Mike
							A-straddlin' him, all bloody-like,
							An' both a-gittin' down to biz!
							An' I wuz a-standin' as clost to 'em
							As me an' you is!
						
						
							a wuz the on'y man aroun'
							(Durn old-fogy town!
							'Peared more like to me,
							Sund'y 'an Saturd'y!)
							Dog come 'crost the road
							An' tuck a smell
							An' put right back;
							Mishler driv by 'ith a load
							O' cantalo'pes he could n't sell
							Too mad,'y jack!
							To even ast
							What wuz up, as he went past!
							Weather most outrageous hot!
							Fairly hear it sizz
							Roun' Dock an' Miketill Dock he shot,
							An' Mike he slacked that grip o' his
							An' fell, all spraddled out. Dock riz
							'Bout half up, a-spittin' red,
							An' shuck his head
							An' I wuz a-standin' as clost to 'em
							As me an' you is!
						
						
							An' Dock he says,
							A-whisperin'-like,
							"It hain't no use
							A-tryin'!Mike
							He's jes' ripped my day lights loosel
						
						
						
							Git that blame-don fidder to
							Let up, an' come out hereYou
							Got some burryin' to do,
							Mike makes one, an' I expects
							In ten seconds I'll make two!"
							And he drapped back, where he riz,
							'Crost Mike's body, black and blue,
							Like a great big letter X!
							An' I wuz a standin's as clost to '
							As me an'you is!
						
					
					
					
						THE DRUM.
						
							
								O THE DRUM!
							There is some
							Intonation in thy grum
							Monotony of utterance that strikes the spirit dumb,
							As we hear
							Through the clear
							And unclouded atmosphere,
							Thy palpitating syllables roll in upon the ear!
							There's a part
							Of the art
							Of thy music-throbbing heart
							That thrills a something in us that awakens with a start,
							And in rhyme
							With the chime
							And exactitude of time,
							Goes marching on to glory to thy melody sublime.
							And the guest
							Of the breast
							That thy rolling robs of rest
							Is a patriotic sprit as a Continental dressed;
							And he looms
							From the glooms
							Of a century of tombs,
							And the blood he spilled at Lexington in living beauty blooms.
							And his eyes
							Wear the guise
							Of a purpose pure and wise,
							
							As the love of them is lifted to a something in the skies
							That is bright
							Red and white,
							With a blur of starry light,
							As it laughs in silken ripples to the breezes day and night.
							There are deep
							Hushes creep
							O'er the pulses as they leap,
							As thy tumult, fainter growing, on the silence falls asleep,
							While the prayer
							Rising there
							Wills the sea and earth and air
							As a heritage to Freedom's sons and daughters everywhere.
							Then, with sound
							As profound
							As the thunderings resound,
							Come thy wild reverberations in a throe that shakes the ground,
							And a cry
							Flung on high,
							Like the flag it flutters by,
							Wings rapturously upward till it nestles in the sky.
							O the drum!
							There is some
							Intonation in thy grum
							Monotony of utterance that strikes the sprit dumb,
							As we hear
							Through the clear
							And unclouded atmosphere,
							Thy palpitating syllables roll in upon the ear!
						
					
					
					
						TOM JOHNSON'S QUIT.
						
							
								APASSEL o' the boys last night
							An' me amongst 'emkindo got
							To talkin' Temper'nce left an' right,
							An' workin' up "blue-ribbon," hot;
							
							An' while we was a-countin' jes'
							How many hed gone into hit
							An' signed the pledge, some feller says,
							"Tom Johnson's quit!"
						
						
							We laughed, of course'cause Tom, you know,
							
								He's spiled more-whisky, boy an' man,
							And seed more whisky, boy an' man,
							Than any chap but Tom could stand:
							And so, says I "He's too nigh dead
							Fer Temper'nce to benefit!"
							The feller sighed agin, and said
							"Tom Johnson's quit!"
						
						
							We all liked Tom, an ' that was why
							We sorto simmered down agin,
							And ast the feller ser'ously
							Ef he wa' n't tryin' to draw us in:
							He shuck his headtuck off his hat
							Helt up his hand an' opened hit,
							An' says, says he, "I 'll swear to that
							Tom Johnson's quit!"
						
						
							Well, we was stumpt, an' tickled too,
							Because we knowed ef Tom hed signed
							Ther wa' n't no man 'at wore the "blue"
							'At was more honester inclined:
							
							An' then and there we kindo riz,
							The hull dern gang of us 'at bit
							An' th'owed our hats and let 'er whizz,
							"Tom Johnson's quit!"
						
						
							I 've heerd 'em holler when the balls
							Was buzzin' 'round us wus'n bees,
							An' when the ole flag on the walls
							Was flappin' o'er the enemy's,
							I 've heerd a-many a wild "hooray"
							'At made my heart git up an' git
							But Lord!to hear 'em shout that way!
							"Tom Johnson's quit!"
						
						
							But when we saw the chap 'at fetched
							The news wa'n't jinin' in the cheer,
							But stood there solemn-like, an' reched
							An' kindo wiped away a tear,
							We someway sorto' stilled agin,
							And listenedI kin hear him yit,
							His voice a-wobblin' with his chin,
							"Tom Johnson's quit
						
						
							"I hain't a-givin' you no game
							I wisht I was! . . .. An hour ago,
							This operatorwhat's his name
							The one' at works at night, you know?
							Went out to flag that Ten Express,
							And sees a man in front of hit
							Th'ow up his hands an' staggeryes,
							
								Tom Johnson's quit."
							
						
					
					
					
						LULLABY.
						
							
								THE MAPLE strews the embers of its leaves
							O'er the laggard swallows nestled 'neath the eaves;
							And the moody cricket falters in his cryBaby-bye!
							And the lid of night is falling o'er the skyBaby-bye!
							The lid of night is falling o'er the sky!
						
						
							The rose is lying pallid, and the cup
							Of the frosted calla-lily folded up;
							And the breezes through the garden sob and sighBaby-bye!
							O'er the sleeping blooms of summer where they lieBaby-bye!
							O er the sleeping blooms of summer where they lie!
						
						
							Yet, BabyO my Baby, for your sake
							This heart of mine is ever wide awake,
							And my love may never droop a drowsy eyeBaby-bye!
							Till your own are wet above me when I dieBaby-bye!
							Till your own are wet above me when I die.
						
					
					
					
						IN THE SOUTH.
						
							
								THERE IS a princess in the South
							About whose beauty rumors hum
							Like honey-bees about the mouth
							Of roses dewdrops falter from;
							And O her hair is like the fine
							Clear amber of a jostled wine
							In tropic revels; and her eyes
							Are blue as rifts of Paradise.
						
						
							Such beauty as may none before
							Kneel daringly, to kiss the tips
							Of fingers such as knights of yore
							Had died to lift against their lips:
							Such eyes as might the eyes of gold
							Of all the stars of night behold
							With glittering envy, and so glare
							In dazzling splendor of despair.
						
						
							So, were I but a minstrel, deft
							At weaving, with the trembling strings
							Of my glad harp, the warp and weft
							Of rondels such as rapture sings,
							I'd loop my lyre across my breast,
							Nor stay me till my knee found rest
							In midnight banks of bud and flower
							Beneath my lady's lattice-bower.
						
						
							And there, drenched with the teary dews,
							I'd woo her with such wondrous art
							As well might stanch the songs that ooze
							Out of the mockbird's breaking heart;
							
							So light, so tender, and so sweet
							Should be the words I would repeat,
							Her casement, on my gradual sight,
							Would blossom as a lily might.
						
					
					
					
						THE OLD HOME BY THE MILL.
						
							
								THIS IS "The old Home by the Mill"fer we still call it
								so.
							Although the old mill, roof and sill, is all gone long ago.
							The old home, though, and old folks, and the old spring, and a few
							Old cat-tails, weeds and hartychokes, is left to welcome you!
						
						
							Here, Marg'et, fetch the man a tin to drink out of! Our spring
							Keeps kindo-sorto cavin' in, but do n't "taste"
								anything!
							She's kindo agein', Marg'et is"the old process,"
								like me,
							All ham-stringed up with rheumatiz, and on in seventy-three
						
						
							Jes' me and Marg'et lives alone herelike in long ago;
							The childern all put off and gone, and married, do n't you know?
							One's millin' way out West somewhere; two other miller-boys
							In Minnyopolis they air; and one's in Illinoise.
						
						
							The oldest gyrlthe first that wentmarried and died right here;
							The next lives in Winn's Settlementfor purt' nigh thirty year!
							And youngest onewas allus fer the old home herebut no!
							Her man turns in and he packs her' way off to Indyho!
						
						
							I do n't miss them like Marg'et does'cause
								I got her, you see;
							
							And when she pines for themthat's 'cause she's only jes' got me!
							
							I laugh, and joke her 'bout it all.But talkin' sense, I 'll
								say,
							When she was tuk so bad last Fall, I laughed the t'other way!
						
						
							I haint so favor'ble impressed 'bout dyin'; but ef I
							Found I was only second-best when us two come to die,
							I'd 'dopt the "new process" in full, ef Marg'et died, you see,
							I'd jes' crawl in my grave and pull the green grass over me!
						
					
					
					
						A LEAVE-TAKING.
						
							
								SHE will not smile;
							She will not stir;
							I marvel while
							I look on her.
							The lips are chilly
							And will not speak;
							The ghost of a lily
							In either cheek.
						
						
							Her hairah me!
							Her hairher hair!
							How helplessly
							My hands go there!
							But my caresses
							Meet not hers,
							O golden tresses
							That thread my tears!
						
						
							I kiss the eyes
							On either lid,
							Where her love lies
							Forever hid.
							I cease my weeping
							And smile and say:
							I will be sleeping
							Thus, some day!
						
					
					
					
						WAIT FOR THE MORNING.
						
							
								WAIT for the morning:It will come, indeed,
							As surely as the night hath given need.
							The yearning eyes, at last, will strain their sight
							No more unanswered by the morning light;
							No longer will they vainly strive, through tears,
							To pierce the darkness of thy doubts and fears,
							But, bathed in balmy dews and rays of dawn,
							Will smile with rapture o'er the darkness drawn.
						
						
							Wait for the morning, O thou smitten child,
							Scorned, scourged and persecuted and reviled
							A thirst and famishing, none pitying thee,
							Crowned with the twisted thorns of agony
							No faintest gleam of sunlight through the dense
							Infinity of gloom to lead thee thence.
							Wait for the morning:It will come, indeed,
							As surely as the night hath given need.
						
					
					
					
						WHEN JUNE IS HERE.
						
							
								WHEN JUNE is herewhat art have we to sing
							The whiteness of the lilies midst the green
							Of noon-tranced lawns? Or flash of roses seen
							Like redbirds' wings? Or earliest ripening
							Prince-Harvest apples, where the cloyed bees cling
							Round winey juices oozing down between
							The peckings of the robin, while we lean
							In under-grasses, lost in marveling.
							Or the cool term of morning, and the stir
							Of odorous breaths from wood and meadow walks,
							The bobwhite's liquid yodel, and the whir
							Of sudden flight; and, where the milkmaid talks
							Across the bars, on tilted barley-stalks
							The dewdrops' glint in webs of gossamer.
						
					
				
				
				
					The Gilded Roll
					
					THE GILDED ROLL.
					
						NOSING around in an old boxpacked away, and lost to memory for yearsan
						hour ago I found a musty package of gilt paper, or rather, a roll it was, with the
						green-tarnished gold of the old sheet for the outer wrapper, I picked it up mechanically
						to toss it into some obscure corner, when, carelessly lifting it by one end, a
						child's tin whistle dropped therefrom and fell tinkling on the attic floor. It lies
						before me on my writing table nowand so, too, does the roll entire, though now a roll no
						longer,for my eager fingers have unrolled the gilded covering, and all its precious
						contents are spread out beneath my hungry eyes.
					Here is a scroll of ink-written music. I don't read music, but I know the dash and
						swing of the pen that rained it on the page. Here is a letter, with the self-same
						impulse and abandon in every syllable; and its melodyhowever sweet the otheris far more
						sweet to me. And here are other letters like itthreefiveand seven, at least. Bob wrote
						them from the front, and Billy kept them for  me when I
						went to join him. Dear boy! Dear boy!
					Here are some cards of bristol-board. Ah! when Bob came to these there were no blotches
						then. What faceswhat expressions! The droll, ridiculous, good-for-nothing genius, with
						his "sad mouth," as he called it, "upside down," laughing alwaysat
						everything, at big rallies, and mass-meetings and conventions, country fairs, and floral
						halls, booths, water-melon-wagons, dancing tents, the swing, Daguerrean-car, the
						"lung-barometer," and the air-gun man. Oh! what a gifted, good-for-nothing boy
						Bob was in those old days! And here's a picture of a girlish facea very faded
						photographeven fresh from "the gallery," five and twenty years ago it was a
						faded thing. But the living facehow bright and clear that was!for "Doc,"
						Bob's awful name for her, was a pretty girl, and brilliant, clever, lovable every
						way. No wonder Bob fancied her! And you could see some hint of her jaunty loveliness in
						every fairy face he drew, and you could find her happy ways and dainty tastes
						unconsciously assumed in all he didthe books he readthe poems he admired, and those he
						wrote; and, ringing clean and pure and jubilant, the vibrant beauty of her voice could
						clearly be defined and traced  through all his music. Now,
						there's the happy pair of themBob and Doc. Make of them just whatever your good
						fancy may dictate, but keep in mind the stern, relentless ways of destiny.
					You are not at the beginning of a novel, only at the threshold of one of a hundred
						experiences that lie buried in the past, and this particular one most happily
						resurrected by these odds and ends found in the gilded roll.
					You see, dating away back, the contents of this package, mainly, were hastily gathered
						together after a week's visit out at the old Mills farm; the gilt paper, and the
						whistle, and the pictures, they were Billy's; the music pages, Bob's, or
						Doc's; the letters and some other manuscript were mine.
					The Mills girls were great friends of Doc's and often came to visit her in town;
						and so Doc often visited the Milk's. This is the way that Bob first got out there,
						and won them all, and "shaped the thing" for me, as he would put it; and
						lastly, we had lugged in Billy,such a handy boy, you know, to hold the horses on picnic
						excursions, and to watch the carriage and the luncheon, and all that.Yes, and," Bob
						would say, "such a serviceable boy in getting all the fishing tackle in proper
						order, and digging  bait, and promenading in our wake up
						and down the creek all day, with the minnow-bucket hanging on his arm, do n't you
						know!"
					But jolly as the days were, I think jollier were the long evenings at the farm. After
						the supper in the grove, where, when the weather permitted, always stood the table,
						ankle-deep in the cool green plush of the sward; and after the lounge upon the grass,
						and the cigars, and the new fish stories, and the general invoice of the old ones, it
						was delectable to get back to the girls again, and in the old "best room "hear
						once more the lilt of the old songs and the stacattoed laughter of the piano mingling
						with the alto and falsetto voices of the Mills girls, and the gallant soprano of the
						dear girl Doc.
					This is the scene I want you to look in upon, as, in fancy, I do nowand here are the
						materials for it all, husked from the gilded roll:
					Bob, the master, leans at the piano now and Doc is at the keys, her glad face often
						thrown up sidewise toward his own. His face is boyishfor there is yet but the ghost of a
						mustache upon his lip. His eyes are dark and clear, of over-size when looking at you,
						but now their lids are drooped above his violin, whose melody has, for the time, almost
							 smoothed away the upward kinkings of the corners of his
						mouth. And wonderfully quiet now is every one, and the chords of the piano, too, are low
						and faltering; and so, at last, the tune itself swoons into the universal hush, andBob
						is rasping, in its stead, the ridiculous, but marvelously perfect imitation of the
						"priming "of a pump, while Billy's hands forget the "chiggers
						"on the bare backs of his feet, as, with clapping palms, he dances round the room
						in ungovernable spasms of delight. And then we all laugh; and Billy, taking advantage of
						the general tumult, pulls Bob's head down and whispers, "Git 'em to stay
						up 'way late to-night I" And Bob, perhaps remembering that we go back home
						to-morrow, winks at the little fellow and whispers, "You let me manage 'em 1
						Stay up till broad daylight if we take a notioneh?" And Billy dances off again in
						newer glee, while the inspired musician is plunking a banjo imitation on his enchanted
						instrument, which is unceremoniously drowned out by a circus-tune from Doc that is
						absolutely inspiring to everyone but the barefooted brother, who drops back listlessly
						to his old position on the floor and sullenly renews operations on his
						"chigger" claims.
					"Thought you was goin' to have pop-corn 
						to-night all so fast!" he says, doggedly, in the midst of a momentary lull that has
						fallen on a game of whist. And then the oldest Mills girl, who thinks cards stupid
						anyhow, says: "That's so, Billy; and we're going to have it, too; and
						right away, for this game's just ending, and I shan't submit to being bored
						with another. I say ' pop-corn' with Billy! And after that," she
						continues, rising and addressing the party in general, "we must have another
						literary and artistic tournament, and that's been in contemlation and preparation
						long enough; so you gentleman can be pulling your wits together for the exercises, while
						us girls see to the refreshments."
					"Have you done anything toward it!" queries Bob, when the girls are gone,
						with the alert Billy in their wake.
					"Just an outline," I reply. "How with you?"
					"Clean forgot itthat is, the preparation; but I 've got a little old
						second-hand idea, if you 'll all help me out with it, that 'll amuse us some,
						and tickle Billy I'm certain."
					So that's agreed upon and while Bob produces his portfolio, drawing paper, pencils
						and so on, I turn to my note-book in a dazed way and begin counting my fingers in a
						depth of profound abstraction, from which I am  barely
						aroused by the reappearance of the girls and Billy.
					"Goody, goody, goody! Bob's goin' to make pictures! "cries Billy,
						in additional transport to that the cake pop-corn has produced.
					"Now, you girls," says Bob, gently detaching the affectionate Billy from one
						leg and moving a chair to the table, with a backward glance of intelligence toward the
						boy,you girls are to help us all you can, and we can all work; but, as I '11 have
						all the illustrations as you canthat 'll be easy, you know,because the work entire
						is just to consist of a series of fool-epigrams, such as, for instance.Listen,
						Billy:
					
						Here lies a young man
						Who in childhood began
						To swear, and to smoke, and to drink,
						In his twentieth year
						He quit swearing and beer,
						And yet is still smoking, I think."
					
					And the rest of his instructions are delivered in lower tones, that the boy may not
						hear and then all matters seeminglv arranged, he turns to the boy with"And now,
						Billy, no lookin' over shoulders, you know, or swinging on my chair-back while
						I'm at work. When the pictures are all finished, 
						then you can take a squint at 'em, and not before. Is that all hunky,
						now?"
					"Oh! who's a-goin' to look over your shoulderonly Doc." And as the radiant Doc hastily quits that very post, and dives for
						the offending brother, he scrambles under the piano and laughs derisively.
					And then a silence falls upon the group-a gracious quiet, only intruded upon by the
						very juicy and exuberant munching of an apple from a remote fastness of the room, and
						the occasional thumping of a bare heel against the floor.
					At last I close my note-book with a half slam.
					"That means," says Bob, laying down his pencil, and addressing the
						girls,"That means he's concluded his poem, and that he's not pleased with
						it in any manner, and that he intends declining to read it, for that self-acknowledged
						reason, and that he expects us to believe every affected word of his entire
						speech-"
					"Oh, don't!" I exclaim.
					"Then give us the wretched production, in all its hideous deformity!"
					And the girls all laugh so sympathetically, and Bob joins them so gently, and yet with
						a tone, I know, that can be changed so quickly  to my
						further discomfiture, that I arise at once and read, without apology or excuse, this
						primitive and very callow poem recovered here to-day from the gilded roll:
					
						A BACKWARD LOOK.
						As I sat smoking, alone, yesterday,
						And lazily leaning back in my chair,
						Enjoying myself in a general way-
						Allowing my thoughts a holiday
						From werriness, toil and care,
						My fanciesdoubtless, for ventilation
						Left ajar the gates of my mind,
						And Memory, seeing the situation,
						Slipped out in street of "Auld Lang Syne."
					
					
						Wandering ever with tireless feet
						Through scenes of silence, and jubilee
						Of long-hushed voices; and faces sweet
						Were throning the shadowy side of the street
						As far as the eye could see;
						Dreaming again, in anticipation,
						The same old dreams of our boyhood's day
						That never come true, from the vague sensation
						Of walking asleep in the world's strange ways.
					
					
						Away to the house where I was born!
						And there was the selfsame clock that ticked
						From the close of dusk to the burst of morn,
						When life-warm hands plucked the golden corn
						And helped when the apples were picked.
						And the "chany-dog" on the mantel-shelf,
						With the gilded collar and yellow eyes,
						Looked just as at first, when I hugged myself
						Sound asleep with the dear surprise.
					
					
					
						And down to the swing in the locust tree,
						Where the grass was worn from the trampled ground,
						And where "Eck" Skinner, "Old" Carr, and three
						Or four such other boys used to be
						Doin'"sky-scrapers," or "whirlin'
							round:"
						And again Bob climbed for the bluebird's nest,
						And again "had shows" in the buggy-shed
						Of Guymon's barn, where still, unguessed
						The old ghosts romp through the best days dead
					
					
						And again I gazed from the old school-room
						With a wistful look of a long June day,
						When on my cheek was the hectic bloom
						Caught of Mischief, as I presume
						He had such a "partial" way,
						It seemed, toward me.And again I thought
						Of a probable likelihood to be
						Kept in after schoolfor a girl was caught
						Catching a note from me.
					
					
						And down through the woods to the swimming-hole
						Where the big, white, hollow, old sycamore grows,
						And we never cared when the water was cold,
						And always "ducked" the boy that told
						On the fellow that tied the clothes.
						When life went so like a dreamy rhyme,
						That it seems to me now that then
						The world was having a jollier time
						Than it ever will have again.
					
					The crude production is received, I am glad to note, with some expressions of favor
						from the company, though Bob, of course, must heartlessly dissipate my weak delight by
						saying, "Well, it's certainly bad enough; though," he goes on with an air
						of deepest critical  sagacity and fairness,
						"considered, as it should be, justly, as the production of a jour-poet, why, it
						might be worsethat is, a little
					"Probably," I remember saying,"Probably I might redeem myself by reading
						you this little amateurish bit of verse, enclosed to me in a letter by mistake, not very
						long ago." I here fish an envelope from my pocket the address of which all
						recognize as in Bob's almost printed writing. He smiles vacantly at itthen vividly
						colors.
					"What date?" he stoically asks.
					"The date," I suggestively answer, "of your last letter to our dear Doc,
						at Boarding-School, two days exactly in advance of her coming homethis veritable visit
						now."
					Both Bob and Doc rush at mebut too late. The letter and contents have wholly vanished.
						The youngest Miss Mills quiets usurgently distracting us, in fact, by calling our
						attention to the immediate completion of our joint production; "For now," she
						says, "with our new renforcement, we can, with becoming diligence, soon have it
						ready for both printer and engraver, and then we'll wake up the boy (who has been
						fortunately slumbering for the last quarter of an hour), and present to him, as designed
						and intended, this matchless creation of our united intellects." At the conclusion
							 of this speech we all go good-humoredly to work, and at
						the close of half an hour the tedious, but most ridiculous, task is announced
						completed.
					As I arrange and place in proper form here on the table the separate cardstwenty-seven
						in numberI sigh to think that I am unable to transcribe for you the best part of the
						nonsensical workthe illustrations. All I can give is the written copy of
					
						BILLY'S ALPHABETICAL ANIMAL SHOW.
						A WAS an elegant Ape
						Who tied up his ears with red tape,
						And wore a long veil
						Half revealing his tail
						Which was trimmed with jet bugles and crape.
					
					
						B WAS a boastful old Bear
						Who used to say," Hoomh! I declare
						I can eatif you'11 get me
						The Children, and let me
						Ten babies, teeth, toenails and hair!"
					
					
						C WAS a Codfish who sighed
						When snatched from the home of hi. pride,
						But could he, embrined,
						Guess this fragrance behind,
						How glad he would be that he died!
					
					
						D WAS a dandified Dog
						Who said"Though it's raining like fog
						I wear no umbrellah,
						Me boy, for a fellah
						Might just as well travel incog!"
					
					
					
						E WAS an elderly Eel
						Who would say," Well, I really feel
						As my grandchildren wriggle
						And shout 'I should giggle'
						A trifle run down at the heel!"
					
					
						F WAS a Fowl who conceded
						
							Some hens might hatch more eggs than she did,
						But she'd children as plenty
						As eighteen or twenty
						And that was quite all that she needed.
					
					
						G WAS a gluttonous Goat
						Who, dining one day, table-d'hote,
						
						Ordered soup-bone, au fait,
						
						And fish, papier-mache,
						
						And a filet of Spring overcoat.
					
					
						H WAS a high-cultured Hound
						Who could clear forty feet at a bound,
						And a coon once averred
						That his howl could be heard
						For five miles and three-quarters around.
					
					
						I WAS an Ibex ambitious
						To dive over chasms auspicious;
						He would leap down a peak
						And not light for a week,
						And swear that the jump was delicious.
					
					
						J WAS a Jackass who said
						He had such a bad cold in his head,
						If it was n't for leaving
						The rest of us grieving,
						He 'd really rather be dead.
					
					
					
						K WAS a profligate Kite
						Who would haunt the saloons every night;
						And often he ust
						To reel back to his roost
						Too full to set up on it right.
					
					
						L WAS a wary old Lynx
						Who would say,"Do you know wot I thinks?
						I thinks ef you happen
						To ketch me a-nappin'
						I'm ready to set up the drinks!"
					
					
						M WAS a merry old Mole,
						Who would snooze all the day in his hole,
						Thenall night, a-rootin'
						Around and galootin'
						He 'd sing "Johnny, Fill up the Bowl!"
					
					
						N WAS a caustical Nautilus
						Who sneered, "I suppose, when they 've caught all us,
						Like oysters they 'll serve us,
						And barrel, and pickle, and bottle us!"
						And barrel, and pickle, and bottle us!"
					
					
						O WAS an autocrat Owl
						Such a wisesuch a wonderful fowl!
						Why, for all the night through
						He would hoot and hoo-hoo
						And hoot and hoo-hooter and howl!
					
					
						P WAS a Pelican pet,
						Who gobbled up all he could get;
						He could eat on until
						He was full to the bill,
						And there he had lodgings to let!
					
					
					
						Q WAS a querulous Quail,
						Who said: "It will little avail
						The efforts of those
						Of my foes who propose
						To attempt to put salt on my tail!"
					
					
						R Was a ring-tailed Raccoon,
						With eyes of the tinge of the moon,
						And his nose a blue-black,
						And the fur on his back
						A sad sort of sallow maroon.
					
					
						S IS a Sculpinyou 'll wish
						Very much to have one on your dish,
						Since all his bones grow
						On the outside, and so
						He's n very desirable fish.
					
					
						T WAS a Turtle, of wealth,
						Who went round with particular stealth,
						"Why," said he, "I 'm afraid
						Of being waylaid
						When I even walk out for my health!"
					
					
						U WAS a Unicorn curious,
						With one horn, of a growth so luxurious,
						He could level and stab it
						If you didn't grab it
						Clean through you, he was so blamed furious!
					
					
						V WAS was avagabond Vulture
						Who said: "I do n't want to insult yer,
						But when you intrude
						Where in lone solitude
						I'm a-preyin', you 're no man o' culture!"
					
					
					
						W WAS a wild Woodchuck,
						And you can just bet that he could "chuck"
						He 'd eat raw potatoes,
						Green cron, and tomatoes,
						And tree roots, and call it all "good chuck!"
					
					
						X WAS a kind of X-cuse
						Of a some-sort-o'-thing that got loose
						Before we could name it,
						And cage it, and tame it,
						And bring it in general use.
					
					
						Y IS the Yellowbird,bright
						As a petrified lump of star-light,
						Or a handful of lightning-
						Bugs, squeezed in the tight'ning
						Pink fist of a boy, at night.
					
					
						Z IS the Zebra, of course!
						A kind of a clown-of-a-horse,
						Each other despising,
						Yet neither devising
						A way to obtain a divorce!
					
					
						& HERE is the famouswhat-is-it?
						Walk up, Master Billy, and quiz it:
						You've seen the rest of 'em
						Ain't this the best of 'em,
						Right at the end of your visit?
					
					At last Billy is sent off to bed. It is the prudent mandate of the old folks: But so
						loth-fully the poor child goes, Bob's heart goes, too.Yes, Bob himself, to keep the
						little fellow company awhile, and, up there under the old rafters, in the pleasant
						gloom, lull him to  famous dreams with fairy tales. And it
						is during this brief absence that the youngest Mills girl gives us a surprise. She will
						read a poem, she says, written by a very dear friend of hers who, fortunately for us, is
						not present to prevent her. We guard door and window as she reads. Doc says she will not
						listen; but she does listen, and cries, tooout of pure vexation, she asserts. The rest
						of us, however, cry just because of the apparent honesty of the poem of
					
						BEAUTIFUL HANDS.
						O your handsthey are strangely fair!
						Fairfor the jewels that sparkle there,
						Fairfor the witchery of the spell
						That ivory keys alone can tell;
						But when their delicate touches rest
						Here in my own do I love them best,
						As I clasp with eager acquisitive spans
						My glorious treasure of beautiful hands!
					
					
						Marvelouswonderfulbeautiful hands!
						They can coax roses to bloom in the strands
						Of your brown tresses; and ribbons will twine,
						Under mysterious touches of thine,
						Into such knots as entangle the soul,
						And fetter the heart under such a control
						As only the strength of my love understands
						My passionate love for your beautiful hands.
					
					
						As I remember the first fair thouch
						Of those beautiful hands that I Love so much,
						I seem to thrill as I then was thrilled,
						Kissing the glove that I found unfilled
						
						When I met your gaze, and the queenly bow,
						As you said to me, laughingly, "Keep it now!"
						And dazed and alone in a dream I stand
						Kissing this ghost of your beautiful hand.
					
					
						When first I loved, in the long ago,
						And held your hand as I told you so
						Pressed and carressed it and gave it a kiss,
						And said "I could die for a hand like this!"
						Little I dreamed love's fulness yet
						Had to ripen when eyes were wet,
						And prayers were vain in their wild demands
						For one warm touch of your beautiful hands.
					
					
						Beautiful Hands! O Beautiful Hands!
						Could you reach out of the alien lands
						Where you are lingering, and give me, to-night,
						Only a touchwere it ever so light
						My heart were soothed, and my weary brain
						Would lull itself into rest again;
						For there is no solace the world commands
						Like the caress of your beautiful hands.
					
					Violently winking at the mist that blurs my sight, I regretfully awaken to the here and
						now. And is it possible, I sorrowfully muse, that all this glory can have fled away?that
						more than twenty long, long years are spread between me and that happy night? And is it
						possible that all the dear old facesO, quit it! quit it! Gather the old scraps up and
						wad 'em back into oblivion, where they belong!
					Yes, but be calmbe calm! Think of  cheerful things. You
						are not all alone. Billy's living yet.
					I knowand six feet highand sag-should-eredand owns a tin and stove-store, and
						can't hear thunder!Bitty!
					
					And the youngest Mills girlshe's alive, too
					S'pose I do n't know that? I married her!
					And Doc.
					
						Bob married her. Been in California for more than fifteen yearson some
						blasted cattle-ranch, or something,-and he's worth a half a million! And am I less
						prosperous with this gilded roll?
				
			
		
	
