
     ----CITATION---- 
        Riley, James Whitcomb, 1849-1916. Green Fields and Running Brooks: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2377
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                GREEN FIELDS AND
                     RUNNING BROOKS
                
                
            
            
            
                BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
                
                    NEGHBORLY POEMS: ON FRIENDSHIP, GRIEF AND FARM-LIFEIncluding the "Old Swimmin' Hole"
                        SeriesExclusively in Hoosier Dialect and Character.
                    SKETCHES IN PROSEWith Occasional
                        Poems.
                    AFTERWHILESSerious and Dialect Poetry.
                    PIPES O' PANFive Sketches and Fifty
                        Poems.
                    RHYMES OF CHILDHOODChild-Dialect and
                        Other Verses.
                    THE FLYING ISLANDS OF
                            THE NIGHTA Fantastic Drama in Verse.
                    GREEN FIELDS AND RUNNING BROOKS. Any of the above, postpaid,
                        for $1.25.
                    AN OLD SWEETHEART
                        OF MINEColored and Monotint Plates. 8 x 10 Flat
                        Quarto. Postpaid, $2.50.
                
                
                    PUBLISHED BY
                    
                    The Bowen-Merrill Co., Indianapolis.
                
                IN ENGLAND:
                
                    OLD-FASHIONED ROSESPoems, Dialect and Various. Postpaid, $1.75.
                
                
                    Longmans, Green & Co., London.
                
            
            
            
                
                    GREEN FIELDS AND
                         RUNNING BROOKS
                
                BY
                    JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY
                
                    INDIANAPOLIS
                    THE BOWEN-MERRILL COMPANY
                    1893
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT 1892 BY JAMES
                    W. RILEY
            
            
            
                TO MY SISTERS ELVA AND MARY
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    PROEM
                        13
                        
                    Artemus of Michigan, The 146
                        
                    As My Uncle Used to Say 83
                        
                    At Utter Loaf 174
                        
                    August 66
                        
                    Autumn 183
                        
                    Bedouin 189
                        
                    Being His Mother 70
                        
                    Blind 86
                        
                    Blossoms on the Trees, The 206
                        
                    By Any Other Name 134
                        
                    By Her White Bed 204
                        
                    Chant of the Cross-Bearing Child, The 179
                        
                    Country Pathway, A 15
                        
                    Cup of Tea, A 143
                        
                    Curse of the Wandering Foot, The 107
                        
                    Cyclone, The 25
                        
                    Dan Paine 171
                        
                    Dawn, Noon and Dewfall 81
                        
                    Discouraging Model, A 207
                        
                    Ditty of No Tone, A 22
                        
                    Don Piatt of Mac-o-chee 121
                        
                    Dot Leedle Boy 116
                        
                    Dream of Autumn, A 50
                        
                    
                    Elizabeth 168
                        
                    Envoy 224
                        
                    Farmer WhippleBachelor 73
                        
                    Full Harvest, A 85
                        
                    Glimpse of Pan, A 210
                        
                    Go, Winter 167
                        
                    Her Beautiful Eyes 115
                        
                    Hereafter, The 141
                        
                    His Mother's Way 45
                        
                    His Vigil 132
                        
                    Home at Night 57
                        
                    Home-Going, The 29
                        
                    Hoodoo, The 148
                        
                    Hoosier Flok-Child, The 58
                        
                    How John Quit the Farm 31
                        
                    Iron Horse, The 42
                        
                    Iry and Billy and Jo 112
                        
                    Jack the Giant-Killer 62
                        
                    Jap Miller 46
                        
                    John Alden and Percilly 175
                        
                    John Brown 142
                        
                    John McKeen 216
                        
                    Judith 145
                        
                    June at Woodruff 71
                        
                    Just to Be Good 56
                        
                    Last NightAnd This 208
                        
                    Let Us Forget 194
                        
                    Little Fat Doctor, The 97
                        
                    Longfellow 215
                        
                    Lounger, A 176
                        
                    Monument for the Soldiers, A 109
                        
                    Mr. What's-His-Name 220
                        
                    
                    My Friend 201
                        
                    Nessmuk 82
                        
                    North and South 40
                        
                    Old Retired Sea Captain, The 101
                        
                    Old Winters on the Farm 173
                        
                    Old Year and the New, The 139
                        
                    On the Banks o' Deer Crick 20
                        
                    Out of Nazareth 211
                        
                    Passing of a Heart, The 203
                        
                    Plaint Human, The 133
                        
                    Quarrel, The 137
                        
                    Quiet Lodger, The 126
                        
                    Reach Your Hand to Me 198
                        
                    Right Here at Home 95
                        
                    Rival, The 111
                        
                    Rivals, The; or the Showman's Ruse 149
                        
                    Robet Burns Wilson 103
                        
                    Rose, The 199
                        
                    September Dark 209
                        
                    Shoemaker, The 99
                        
                    Singer, The 84
                        
                    Sister Jones's Confession 106
                        
                    Sleep 170
                        
                    Some Scattering Remarks of Bub's 219
                        
                    Song of Long Ago, A 177
                        
                    Southern Singer, A 48
                        
                    Suspense 202
                        
                    Thanksgiving 181
                        
                    Their Sweet Sorrow 218
                        
                    Them Flowers 124
                        
                    To an Importunate Ghost 136
                        
                    To Hear Her Sing 68
                        
                    
                    Tom Van Arden 52
                        
                    To the Serenader 104
                        
                    Tugg Martin 190
                        
                    Twins, The 187
                        
                    Wandering Jew, The 213
                        
                    Watches of the Night, The 130
                        
                    Water Color, A 24
                        
                    We to Sigh Instead of Sing 205
                        
                    What Chris'mas Fetched the Wigginses 153
                        
                    When Age Comes On 223
                        
                    Where-Away 27
                        
                    While the Musician Played 64
                        
                    Wife-Blessed, The 105
                        
                    Wraith of Summertime, A 114
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                GREEN FIELDS AND
                     RUNNING BROOKS
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                HO! green fields and running brooks!
                        
                        
                            Knotted strings and fishing-hooks
                        
                        
                            Of the truant, stealing down
                        
                        
                            Weedy backways of the town.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            Where the sunshine overlooks,
                        
                            By green fields and running brooks,
                        
                            All intruding guests of chance
                        
                        
                            With a golden tolerance.
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            Cooing doves, or pensive pair
                        
                        
                            Of picnickers, straying there
                        
                        
                            By green fields and running brooks,
                        
                            Sylvan shades and mossy nooks!
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            AndO Dreamer of the Days,
                        
                        
                            Murmurer of roundelays
                        
                        
                            All unsung of words or books,
                        
                        
                            Sing green fields and running brooks!
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    A COUNTRY PATHWAY
                    
                        
                            I COME upon it suddenly, alone
                        A little pathway winding in the weeds
                        That fringe the roadside; and with dreams my own,
                        I wander as it leads.
                    
                    
                        Full wistfully along the slender way,
                        Through summer tan of freckled shade and shine,
                        I take the path that leads me as it may
                        Its every choice is mine.
                    
                    
                        A chipmunk, or a sudden-whirring quail,
                        Is startled by my step as on I fare
                        A garter-snake across the dusty trail
                        Glances andis not there.
                    
                    
                        Above the arching jimson-weeds flare twos
                        And twos of sallow-yellow butterflies,
                        Like blooms of lorn primroses blowing loose
                        When autumn winds arise.
                    
                    
                        The trail dipsdwindlesbroadens then, and lifts
                        Itself astride a cross-road dubiously,
                        And, from the fennel marge beyond it, drifts
                        Still onward, beckoning me.
                    
                    
                    
                        And though it needs must lure me mile on mile
                        Out of the public highway, still I go,
                        My thoughts, far in advance in Indian-file,
                        Allure me even so.
                    
                    
                        Why, I am as a long-lost boy that went
                        At dusk to bring the cattle to the bars,
                        And was not found again, though Heaven lent
                        His mother all the stars
                    
                    
                        With which to seek him through that awful night.
                        O years of nights as vain!Stars never rise
                        But well might miss their glitter in the light
                        Of tears in mother-eyes!
                    
                    
                        Soon, with quickened breaths, I follow still
                        My avant-courier must be obeyed!
                        Thus am I led, and thus the path, at will,
                        Invites me to invade
                    
                    
                        A meadow's precincts, where my daring guide
                        Clambers the steps of an old-fashioned stile,
                        And stumbles down again, the other side,
                        To gambol there awhile
                    
                    
                        In pranks of hide-and-seek, as on ahead
                        I see it running, while the clover-stalks
                        Shake rosy fists at me, as though they said
                        "You dog our country-walks
                    
                    
                    
                        "And mutilate us with your walking-stick!
                        We will not suffer tamely what you do
                        And warn you at your peril,for we'll sic
                        Our bumble-bees on you!"
                    
                    
                        But I smile back, in airy nonchalance,
                        The more determined on my wayward quest,
                        As some bright memory a moment dawns
                        A morning in my breast
                    
                    
                        Sending a thrill that hurries me along
                        In faulty similes of childish skips,
                        Enthused with lithe contortions of a song
                        Performing on my lips.
                    
                    
                        In wild meanderings o'er pasture wealth
                        Erratic wanderings through dead'ning-lands,
                        Where sly old brambles, plucking me by stealth,
                        Put berries in my hands:
                    
                    
                        Or, the path climbs a boulderwades a slough
                        Or, rollicking through buttercups and flags,
                        Goes gaily dancing o'er a deep bayou
                        On old tree-trunks and snags:
                    
                    
                        Or, at the creek, leads o'er a limpid pool
                        Upon a bridge the stream itself has made,
                        With some Spring-freshet for the mighty tool
                        That its foundation laid.
                    
                    
                    
                        I pause a moment here to bend and muse,
                        With dreamy eyes, on my reflection, where
                        A boat-backed bug drifts on a helpless cruise,
                        Or widly oars the air,
                    
                    
                        As, dimly seen, the pirate of the brook
                        The pike, whose jaunty hulk denotes his speed
                        Swings pivoting about, with wary look
                        Of low and cunning greed.
                    
                    
                        Till, filled with other thought, I turn again
                        To where the pathway enters in a realm
                        Of lordly woodland, under sovereign reign
                        Of towering oak and elm.
                    
                    
                        A puritanic quiet here reviles
                        The almost whispered warble from the hedge,
                        And takes a locust's rasping voice and files
                        The silence to an edge.
                    
                    
                        In such a solitude my somber way
                        Strays like a misanthrope within a gloom
                        Of his own shadowstill the perfect day
                        Bursts into sudden bloom,
                    
                    
                        And crowns a long, declining stretch of space,
                        Where King Corn's armies lie with flags unfurled,
                        And where the valley's dint in Nature's face
                        Dimples a smiling world.
                    
                    
                    
                        And lo! through mists that may not be dispelled,
                        I see an old farm homestead, as in dreams,
                        Where, like a gem in costly setting held,
                        The old log cabin gleams.
                    
                    
                        O darling Pathway! lead me bravely on
                        Adown your valley way, and run before
                        Among the roses crowding up the lawn
                        And thronging at the door,
                    
                    
                        And carry up the echo there that shall
                        Arouse the drowsy dog, that he may bay
                        The household out to greet the prodigal
                        That wanders home to-day.
                    
                
                
                
                    ON THE BANKS O' DEER CRICK.
                    
                        
                            ON the banks o' Deer Crick! There's the place fer me!
                        Worter slidin' past ye jes as clair as it kin be:
                        See yer shadder in it, and the shadder o' the sky,
                        And the shadder o' the buzzard as he goes a-lazein' by;
                        Shadder o' the pizen-vines, and shadder o' the trees
                        And I purt'-nigh said the shadder o' the sunshine and the breeze!
                        WellI never seen the ocean ner I never seen the sea:
                        On the banks o' Deer Crick's grand enough fer me!
                    
                    
                        On the banks o' Deer Crickmild er two from town
                        'Long up where the mill-race comes a-loafin' down,
                        Like to git up in there' mongst the sycamores
                        And watch the worter at the dam, a-frothin' as she pours:
                        Crawl out on some old log, with my hook and line,
                        Where the fish is jes so thick you kin see 'em shine
                        As they flicker round yer bait, coaxin' you to
                            jerk,
                        Tel yer tired ketchin' of 'em, mighty nigh, as work!
                        
                    
                    
                        On the banks o' Deer Crick!Allus my delignt
                        Jes to be around theretake it day er night!
                        Watch the snipes and killdees foolin' half the day
                        Er these-'ere little worter-bugs skootin' ever'way!
                        
                        Snakefeeders glancin' round, er dartin' out o' sight;
                        And dew-fall, and bullfrogs, and lightnin'-bugs at night
                        Stars up through the tree-topser in the crick below,
                        And smell o' mussrat through the dark clean from the old
                        b'y-o!
                    
                    
                        Er take a tromp, some Sund'y, say, 'way up to "Johnson's Hole,"
                        And find where he's had a fire, and hid his fishin'-pole:
                        Have yer "dog-leg," with ye and yer pipe and "cut-and-dry"
                        Pocketful o' corn-bred, and slug er two o' rye,
                        Soak yer hide in sunshine and waller in the shade
                        Like the Good Book tells us"Where there're none to make afraid!"
                        Well!I never seen the ocean ner I never seen the sea
                        On the banks o' Deer Crick's grand enough fer me!
                    
                
                
                
                    A DITTY OF NO TONE
                    Piped to the Spirit of John Keats.
                    
                        I.
                        WOULD that my lips might pour out in thy praise
                        A fitting melodyan air sublime,
                        A song sun-washed and draped in dreamy haze
                        The floss and velvet of luxurious rhyme:
                        A lay wrought of warm languors, and o'er-brimmed
                        With balminess, and fragrance of wild flowers
                        Such as the droning bee ne'er wearies of
                        Such thoughts as might be hymned
                        To thee from this midsummer land of ours
                        Through shower and sunshine blent for very love.
                    
                    
                        II.
                        Deep silences in woody aisles wherethrough
                        Cool paths go loitering, and where the trill
                        Of best-remembered birds hath something new
                        In cadence for the hearinglingering still
                        Through all the open day that lies beyond;
                        Reaches of pasture-lands, vine-wreathen oaks,
                        Majestic still in pathos of decay;
                        The roadthe wayside pond
                        Wherein the dragonfly an instant soaks
                        His filmy wing-tips ere he flits away.
                    
                    
                    
                        III.
                        And I would pluck from out the dank, rich mould,
                        Thick-shaded from the sun of noon, the long
                        Lithe stalks of barley, topped with ruddy gold,
                        And braid them in the meshes of my song;
                        And with them I would tangle wheat and rye,
                        And wisps of greenest grass the katydid
                        Ere crept beneath the blades of, sulkily,
                        As harvest-hands went by;
                        And weave of all, as wildest fancy bid,
                        A crown of mingled song and bloom for thee.
                    
                
                
                
                    A WATER-COLOR.
                    
                        Low hidden in among the forest trees
                        An artist's tilted easel, ankle-deep
                        In tousled ferns and mosses, and in these
                        A fluffy water-spaniel, half asleep
                        Beside a sketch-book and a fallen hat
                        A little wicker flask tossed into that.
                    
                    
                        A sense of utter carelessness and grace
                        Of pure abandon in the slumb'rous scene,
                        As if the June, all hoydenish of face,
                        Had romped herself to sleep there on the green,
                        And brink and sagging bridge and sliding stream
                        Were just romantic parcels of her dream.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE CYCLONE.
                    
                        So lone I stood, the very trees seemed drawn
                        In conference with themselves.Intenseintense
                        Seemed everything;the summer splendor on
                        The sight,magnificence!
                    
                    
                        A babe's life might not lighter fail and die
                        Than failed the sunlight.Though the hour was noon,
                        The palm of midnight might not lighter lie
                        Upon the brow of June.
                    
                    
                        With eyes upraised, I saw the underwings
                        Of swallowsgone the instant afterward
                        While from the elms there came strange twitterings,
                        Stilled scarce ere they were heard.
                    
                    
                        The river seemed to shiver; and, far down
                        Its darkened length, I saw the sycamores
                        Lean inward closer, under the vast frown
                        That weighed above the shores.
                    
                    
                        Then was a roar, born of some awful burst!
                        And one lay, shrieking, chattering, in my path
                        Flunghe or Iout of some space accurst
                        As of Jehovah's wrath:
                    
                    
                    
                        Nor barely had he wreaked his latest prayer,
                        Ere back the noon flashed o'er the ruin done,
                        And, o'er uprooted forests touseled there,
                        The birds sang in the sun.
                    
                
                
                
                    WHERE-AWAY.
                    
                        O THE Lands of Where-Away!
                        Tell ustell uswhere are they?
                        Through the darkness and the dawn
                        We have journeyed on and on
                        From the cradle to the cross
                        From possession unto loss.
                        Seeking still, from day to day,
                        For the lands of Where-Away.
                    
                    
                        When our baby-feet were first
                        Planted where the daisies burst,
                        And the greenest grasses grew
                        In the fields we wandered through,
                        On, with childish discontent,
                        Ever on and on we went,
                        Hoping still to pass, some day,
                        O'er the verge of Where-Away.
                    
                    
                        Roses laid their velvet lips
                        On our own, with fragrant sips;
                        But their kisses held us not,
                        All their sweetness we forgot;
                        Though the brambles in our track
                        Plucked at us to hold us back
                        "Just ahead," we used to say,
                        "Lie the Lands of Where-Away."
                    
                    
                    
                        Children at the pasture-bars,
                        Through the dusk, like glimmering stars,
                        Waved their hands that we should bide
                        With them over eventide:
                        Down the dark their voices failed
                        Falteringly, as they hailed,
                        And died into yesterday
                        Night ahead andWhere-Away?
                    
                    
                        Twining arms about us thrown
                        Warm caresses, all our own,
                        Can but stay us for a spell
                        Love hath little new to tell
                        To the soul in need supreme,
                        Aching ever with the dream
                        Of the endless bliss it may
                        Find in Lands of Where-Away!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE HOME-GOING.
                    
                        WE must get homefor we have been away
                        So long it seems forever and a day!
                        And O so very homesick we have grown,
                        The laughter of the world is like a moan
                        In our tired hearing, and its songs as vain,
                        We must get homewe must get home again!
                    
                    
                        We must get home; It hurts so, staying here,
                        Where fond hearts must be wept out tear by tear,
                        And where to wear wet lashes means, at best,
                        When most our lack, the least our hope of rest
                        When most our need of joy, the more our pain
                        We must get homewe must get home again!
                    
                    
                        We must get home: All is so quiet there:
                        The touch of loving hands on brow and hair
                        Dim rooms, wherein the sunshine is made mild
                        The lost love of the mother and the child
                        Restored in restful lullabies of rain.
                        We must get homewe must get home again!
                    
                    
                        We must get home, where, as we nod and drowse,
                        Time humors us and tiptoes through the house,
                        
                        And loves us best when sleeping baby-wise,
                        With dreamsnot tear-dropsbrimming our clenched eyes,
                        Pure dreams that know nor taint nor earthly stain
                        We must get homewe must get home again!
                    
                    
                        We must get home; and, unremembering there
                        All gain of all ambitions otherwhere,
                        Restfrom the feverish victory, and the crown
                        Of conquest whose waste glory weighs us down.
                        Fame's fairest gifts we toss back with disdain
                        We must get homewe must get home again!
                    
                
                
                
                    HOW JOHN QUIT THE FARM.
                    
                        
                            NOBODY on the old farm here but Mother, me and John,
                        Except, of course, the extry he'p when harvest-time come on
                        And then, I want to say to you, we needed he'p
                            about,
                        As you'd admit, ef you'd a-seen the way the crops turned out!
                    
                    
                        A better quarter-section, ner a richer soil warn't found
                        Than this-here old-home place o' ourn fer fifty miles around!
                        The house was smallbut plenty-big we found it from the day
                        That Johnour only livin' sonpacked up and went away.
                    
                    
                        You see, we tuck sich pride in Johnhis mother more'n me
                        That's natchurul; but both of us was proud as
                            proud could be;
                        Fer the boy, from a little chap, was most oncommon bright,
                        And seemed in work as well as play to take the same delight.
                    
                    
                    
                        He allus went a-whistlin' round the place, as glad at heart
                        As robins up at five o'clock to git an airly start;
                        And many a time 'fore daylight Mother's waked me up to say
                        "Jest listen, David!listen!Johnny's beat the birds to-day!"
                    
                    
                        High-sperited from boyhood, with a most inquirin' turn,
                        He wanted to learn ever'thing on earth they was to learn:
                        He'd ast more plaguey questions in a mortal-minute here
                        Than his grandpap in Paradise could answer in a year!
                    
                    
                        And read! w'y, his own mother learnt him how to
                            read and spell;
                        And "The Children of the Abbey"w'y, he knowed that book as well
                        At fifteen as his parents!and "The Pilgrim's Progress," too
                        Jest knuckled down, the shaver did, and read 'em through and
                            through!
                    
                    
                    
                        At eighteen, Mother 'lowed the boy must have a better chance
                        That we ort to educate him, under any circumstance;
                        And John he j'ined his mother, and they ding-donged and kep' on,
                        Tel I sent him off to school in town, half glad that he was
                        gone.
                    
                    
                        ButI missed himw'y, of course I did!The Fall and Winter through
                        I never built the kitchen-fire, er split a stick in two,
                        Er fed the stock, er butchered, er swung up a gambrelpin,
                        But what I thought o' John, and wished that he was home agin.
                    
                    
                        He'd come, sometimeson Sund'ys mostand stay the Sund'y out;
                        And on Thanksgivin'-Day he 'peared to like to be about:
                        But a change was workin' on himhe was stiller than before,
                        And did n't joke, ner laugh, ner sing and whistle any more.
                    
                    
                    
                        And his talk was all so proper; and I noticed, with a sigh,
                        He was tryin' to raise side-whiskers, and had on a stripd tie,
                        And a standin'-collar, ironed up as stiff and slick as bone;
                        And a breast-pin, and a watch and chain and plug-hat of his
                        own.
                    
                    
                        But when Spring-weather opened out, and John was to come home
                        And he'p me through the season, I was glad to see him come;
                        But my happiness, that evening, with the settin' sun went down,
                        When he bragged of "a position" that was offered him in town.
                    
                    
                        "But," says I, "you'll not accept it?" "W'y, of course I will,"
                            says he.
                        "This drudgin' on a farm," he says, "is not the life fer me;
                        I've set my stakes up higher," he continued, light and gay,
                        "And town's the place fer me, and I'm a-goin'
                            right away!"
                    
                    
                    
                        And go he did!his mother clingin' to him at the gate,
                        A-pleadin' and a-cryin'; but it hadn't any weight.
                        I was tranquiller, and told her 't warn't no use to worry so,
                        And onclasped her arms from round his neck round mineand let him
                            go!
                    
                    
                        I felt a little bitter feelin' foolin' round about
                        The aidges of my conscience; but I did n't let it out;
                        I simply retch out, trimbly-like, and tuck the boy's hand,
                        And though I did n't say a word, I knowed he'd understand.
                    
                    
                        Andwell!sence then the old home here was mighty lonesome, shore!
                        With me a-workin' in the field, and Mother at the door,
                        Her face ferever to'rds the town, and fadin' more and more
                        Her only son nine miles away, a-clerkin' in a store!
                    
                    
                    
                        The weeks and months dragged by us; and sometimes the boy would
                            write
                        A letter to his mother, sayin' that his work was light,
                        And not to feel oneasy about his health a bit
                        Though his business was confinin', he was gittin' used to it.
                    
                    
                        And sometimes he would write and ast how I was
                            gittin' on,
                        And ef I had to pay out much fer he'p sence he was gone;
                        And how the hogs was doin', and the balance of the stock,
                        And talk on fer a page er two jest like he used to talk.
                    
                    
                        And he wrote, along 'fore harvest, that he guessed he would git
                            home,
                        Fer business would, of course, be dull in town.But did n't come:
                        We got a postal later, sayin' when they had no trade
                        They filled the time "invoicin' goods," and that was why he
                        staid.
                    
                    
                    
                        And then he quit a-writin' altogether: Not a word
                        Exceptin' what the neighbers brung who'd been to town and heard
                        What store John was clerkin' in, and went round to inquire
                        If they could buy their goods there less and sell their produce
                            higher.
                    
                    
                        And so the Summer faded out, and Autumn wore away,
                        And a keener Winter never fetched around Thanks-givin'-Day!
                        The night before that day of thanks I'll never quite fergit,
                        The wind a-howlin' round the houseit makes me creepy yit!
                    
                    
                        And there set me and Motherme a-twistin' at the prongs
                        Of a green scrub-ellum forestick with a vicious pair of tongs,
                        And Mother sayin', "David! David!" in a'
                            undertone,
                        As though she thought that I was thinkin' bad-words unbeknown.
                    
                    
                    
                        "I've dressed the turkey, David, fer to-morrow," Mother said,
                        A-tryin' to wedge some pleasant subject in my stubborn head,
                        "And the mince-meat I'm a-mixin' is perfection mighty nigh;
                        And the pound-cake is delicious-rich" "Who'll eat 'em?"
                        I-says-I.
                    
                    
                        "The cramberries is drippin'-sweet," says Mother, runnin' on,
                        P'tendin' not to hear me;"and somehow I thought of John
                        All the time they was a-jellin'fer you know they allus was
                        His favoritehe likes 'em so!" Says I, "Well,
                            s'pose he does?"
                    
                    
                        "Oh, nothin' much!" says Mother, with a quiet sort o' smile
                        "This gentleman behind my cheer may tell you after while!"
                        And as I turned and looked around, some one riz up and leant
                        And put his arms round Mother's neck, and laughed in low
                        content.
                    
                    
                    
                        "It's me," he says"your fool-boy John, come back
                            to shake your hand;
                        Set down with you, and talk with you, and make you understand
                        How dearer yit than all the world is this old home that we
                        Will spend Thanksgivin' in fer lifejest Mother, you and me!"
                    
                    
                        Nobody on the old farm here but Mother, me and John,
                        Except of course the extry he'p, when harvest-time comes on;
                        And then, I want to say to you, we need sich
                            he'p about,
                        As you'd admit, ef you could see the way the crops turns out!
                    
                
                
                
                    NORTH AND SOUTH.
                    
                        
                            OF the North I wove a dream,
                        All bespangled with the gleam
                        Of the glancing wings of swallows
                        Dipping ripples in a stream,
                        That, like a tide of wine,
                        Wound through lands of shade and shine
                        Where purple grapes hung bursting on the vine.
                    
                    
                        And where orchard-boughs were bent
                        Till their tawny fruitage blent
                        With the golden wake that marked the
                        Way the happy reapers went;
                        Where the dawn died into noon
                        As the May-mists into June,
                        And the dusk fell like a sweet face in a swoon.
                    
                    
                        Of the South I dreamed: And there
                        Came a vision clear and fair
                        As the marvelous enchantments
                        Of the mirage of the air;
                        And I saw the bayou-trees,
                        With their lavish draperies,
                        Hang heavy o'er the moon-washed cypress-knees.
                    
                    
                    
                        Peering from lush fens of rice,
                        I beheld the Negro's eyes,
                        Lit with that old superstition
                        Death itself can not disguise;
                        And I saw the palm tree nod
                        Like an oriental god,
                        And the cotton froth and bubble from the pod.
                    
                    
                        And I dreamed that North and South,
                        With a sigh of dew and drouth,
                        Blew each unto the other
                        The salute of lip and mouth;
                        And I wakened, awed and thrilled
                        Every doubting murmur stilled
                        In the silence of the dream I found fulfilled.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE IRON HORSE.
                    
                        
                            NO song is mine of Arab steed
                        My courser is of nobler blood,
                        And cleaner limb and fleeter speed,
                        And greater strength and hardihood
                        Than ever cantered wild and free
                        Across the plains of Araby.
                    
                    
                        Go search the level desert-land
                        From Sana on to Samarcand
                        Wherever Persian prince has been
                        Or Dervish, Sheik or Bedouin,
                        And I defy you there to point
                        Me out a steed the half so fine
                        From tip of ear to pastern-joint
                        As this old iron horse of mine.
                    
                    
                        You do not know what beauty is
                        You do not know what gentleness
                        His answer is to my caress!
                        Why, look upon this gait of his,
                        A touch upon his iron rein
                        He moves with such a stately grace
                        The sunlight on his burnished mane
                        Is barely shaken in its place;
                        And at touch he changes pace,
                        And, gliding backward, stops again.
                    
                    
                    
                        And talk of mettleAh! my friend,
                        Such passion smoulders in his breast
                        That when awakened it will send
                        A thrill of rapture wilder than
                        Ere palpitated heart of man
                        When flaming at its mightiest.
                        And there's a fierceness in his ire
                        A maddened majesty that leaps
                        Along his veins in blood of fire,
                        Until the path his vision sweeps
                        Spins out behind him like a thread
                        Unraveled from the reel of time,
                        As, wheeling on his course sublime,
                        The earth revolves beneath his tread.
                    
                    
                        Then stretch away, my gallant steed!
                        Thy mission is a noble one:
                        You bear the father to the son,
                        And sweet relief to bitter need;
                        You bear the stranger to his friends;
                        You bear the pilgrim to the shrine,
                        And back again the prayer he sends
                        That God will prosper me and mine,
                        The star that on thy forehead gleams
                        Has blossomed in our brightest dreams.
                        Then speed thee on thy glorious race!
                        The mother waits thy ringing pace;
                    
                    
                    
                        The father leans an anxious ear
                        The thunder of thy hoofs to hear;
                        The lover listens, far away,
                        To catch thy keen exultant neigh;
                        And, where thy breathings roll and rise,
                        The husband strains his eager eyes,
                        And laugh of wife and baby-glee
                        Ring out to greet and welcome thee.
                        Then stretch away! and when at last
                        The master's hand shall gently check
                        Thy mighty speed, and hold thee fast,
                        The world will pat thee on the neck.
                    
                
                
                
                    HIS MOTHER'S WAY
                    
                        
                            TOMPS 'ud allus haf to say
                        Somepin' 'bout "his mother's way."
                        
                            He lived hard-likenever jined
                        Any church of any kind.
                        "It was Mother's way," says he,
                        "To be good enough fer me
                        
                        And her too,and certinly
                        Lord has heerd her pray!"
                        Propped up on his dyin' bed,
                        "Shore as Heaven's overhead,
                        I'm a-goin' there," he said
                        "It was Mother's way."
                    
                
                
                
                    JAP MILLER.
                    
                        
                            JAP MILLER down at Martinsville's the blamedest feller
                            yit!
                        When he starts in a-talkin' other folks is apt to
                            quit!
                        'Pears like that mouth o' his'n wuz n't made fer nuthin' else
                        But jes' to argify 'em down and gether in their pelts:
                        He'll talk you down on tariff; er he'll talk you down on tax,
                        And prove the pore man pays 'em alland them's about the fac's!
                        Religen, law, er politics, prize-fightin', er base-ball
                        Jes' tetch Jap up a little and he'll post you 'bout 'em all.
                    
                    
                        And the comicalist feller ever tilted back a cheer
                        And tuck a chaw tobacker kind o' like he didn't keer.
                        There's where the feller's stren'th lays,he's so common-like and
                            plain,
                        They haint no dude about old Jap, you bet younary grain!
                        They 'lected him to Council and it never turned his head,
                        And didn't make no differunce what anybody said,
                        He didn't dress no finer, ner rag out in fancy clothes;
                        But his voice in Council-meetin's is a turrer to his foes.
                    
                    
                    
                        He's fer the pore man ever' time! And in the last campaign
                        He stumped old Morgan County, through the sunshine and the rain,
                        And helt the banner up'ards from a-trailin' in the dust,
                        And cut loose on monopolies and cuss'd and cuss'd and cuss'd!
                        He'd tell some funny story ever' now and then, you know,
                        Tel, blame it! it wuz better'n a jack-o'-lantern show!
                        And I'd go furder, yit, to-day, to hear old Jap norate
                        Than any high-toned orator 'at ever stumped the State!
                    
                    
                        W'y, that-air blame Jap Miller, with his keen sircastic fun,
                        Has got more friends than ary candidate 'at ever run!
                        Don't matter what his views is, when he states
                            the same to you,
                        They allus coincide with your'n, the same as two and two:
                        You can't take issue with himer, at least, they
                            haint no sense
                        In startin' in to down him, so you better not commence.
                        The best way's jes' to listen, like your humble servant does,
                        And jes' concede Jap Miller is the best man ever wuz!
                    
                
                
                
                    A SOUTHERN SINGER.
                    Written in Madison Cawein's "Lyrics and Idyls."
                    
                        
                            HEREIN are blown from out the South
                        Songs blithe as those of Pan's pursed mouth
                        As sweet in voice as, in perfume,
                        The night-breath of magnolia-bloom.
                    
                    
                        Such sumptuous languor lures the sense
                        Such luxury of indolence
                        The eyes blur as a nymph's might blur,
                        With water-lilies watching her.
                    
                    
                        You waken, thrilling at the trill
                        Of some wild bird that seems to spill
                        The silence full of winey drips
                        Of song that Fancy sips and sips.
                    
                    
                        Betimes, in brambled lanes wherethrough
                        The chimpunk stripes himself from view,
                        You pause to lop a creamy spray
                        Of elder-blossoms by the way.
                    
                    
                        Or where the morning dew is yet
                        Gray on the topmost rail, you set
                        A sudden palm and, vaulting, meet
                        Your vaulting shadow in the wheat.
                    
                    
                    
                        On lordly swards, of suave incline,
                        Entessellate with shade and shine,
                        You shall misdoubt your lowly birth,
                        Clad on as one of princely worth:
                    
                    
                        The falcon on your wrist shall ride
                        Your milk-white Arab side by side
                        With one of raven-black.You fain
                        Would kiss the hand that holds the rein.
                    
                    
                        Nay, nay, Romancer! Poet! Seer!
                        Sing us back homefrom there to here:
                        Grant your high grace and wit, but we
                        Most honor your simplicity.
                    
                    
                        Herein are blown from out the South
                        Songs blithe as those of Pan's pursed mouth
                        As sweet in voice as, in perfume,
                        The night-breath of magnolia-bloom.
                    
                
                
                
                    A DREAM OF AUTUMN.
                    
                        
                            MELLOW hazes, lowly trailing
                        Over wood and meadow, veiling
                        Somber skies, with wildfowl sailing
                        Sailor-like to foreign lands;
                        And the north-wind overleaping
                        Summer's brink, and floodlike sweeping
                        Wrecks of roses where the weeping
                        Willows wring their helpless hands.
                    
                    
                        Flared, like Titan torches flinging
                        Flakes of flame and embers, springing
                        From the vale the trees stand swinging
                        In the moaning atmosphere;
                        While in dead'ning-lands the lowing
                        Of the cattle, sadder growing,
                        Fills the sense to overflowing
                        With the sorrow of the year.
                    
                    
                        Sorrowfully, yet the sweeter
                        Sings the brook in rippled meter
                        Under boughts that lithely teeter
                        Lorn birds, answering from the shores
                        Through the viny, shady-shiny
                        Interspaces, shot with tiny
                        Flying motes that fleck the winy
                        Wave-engraven sycamores.
                    
                    
                    
                        Fields of ragged stubble, wrangled
                        With rank weeds, and shocks of tangled
                        Corn, with crests like rent plumes dangled
                        Over Harvest's battle-plain;
                        And the sudden whir and whistle
                        Of the quail that, like a missile,
                        Whizzes over thorn and thistle,
                        And, a missile, drops again.
                    
                    
                        Muffled voices, hid in thickets
                        Where the redbird stops to stick its
                        Ruddy beak betwixt the pickets
                        Of the truant's rustic trap;
                        And the sound of laughter ringing
                        Where, within the wild-vine swinging,
                        Climb Bacchante's schoolmates, flinging
                        Purple clusters in her lap.
                    
                    
                        Rich as wine, the sunset flashes
                        Round the tilted world, and dashes
                        Up the sloping west and splashes
                        Red foam over sky and sea
                        Till my dream of Autumn, paling
                        In the splendor all-prevailing,
                        Like a sallow leaf goes sailing
                        Down the silence solemnly.
                    
                
                
                
                    TOM VAN ARDEN.
                    
                        
                            TOM VAN ARDEN, my old friend,
                        Our warm fellowship is one
                        Far too old to comprehend
                        Where its bond was first begun:
                        Mirage-like before my gaze
                        Gleams a land of other days,
                        Where two truant boys, astray,
                        Dream their lazy lives away.
                    
                    
                        There's a vision, in the guise
                        Of Midsummer, where the Past
                        Like a weary beggar lies
                        In the shadow Time has cast;
                        And as blends the bloom of trees
                        With the drowsy hum of bees,
                        Fragrant thoughts and murmurs blend,
                        Tom Van Arden, my old friend.
                    
                    
                        Tom Van Arden, my old friend,
                        All the pleasures we have known
                        Thrill me now as I extend
                        This old hand and grasp your own
                        Feeling, in the rude caress,
                        All affection's tenderness;
                        Feeling, though the touch be rough,
                        Our old souls are soft enough.
                    
                    
                    
                        So we'll make a mellow hour:
                        Fill your pipe, and taste the wine
                        Warp your face, if it be sour,
                        I can spare a smile from mine;
                        If it sharpen up your wit,
                        Let me feel the edge of it
                        I have eager ears to lend,
                        Tom Van Arden, my old friend.
                    
                    
                        Tom Van Arden, my old friend,
                        Are we "lucky dogs," indeed?
                        Are we all that we pretend
                        In the jolly life we lead?
                        Bachelors, we must confess,
                        Boast of "single blessedness"
                        To the world, but not alone
                        Man's best sorrow is his own!
                    
                    
                        And the saddest truth is this,
                        Life to us has never proved
                        What we tasted in the kiss
                        Of the women we have loved:
                        Vainly we congratulate
                        Our escape from such a fate
                        As their lying lips could send,
                        Tom Van Arden, my old friend!
                    
                    
                    
                        Tom Van Arden, my old friend,
                        Hearts, like fruit upon the stem,
                        Ripen sweetest, I contend,
                        As the frost falls over them:
                        Your regard for me to-day
                        Makes November taste of May,
                        And through every vein of rhyme
                        Pours the blood of summertime.
                    
                    
                        When our souls are cramped with youth
                        Happiness seems far away
                        In the future, while, in truth,
                        We look back on it to-day
                        Through our tears, nor dare to boast,
                        "Better to have loved and lost!"
                        Broken hearts are hard to mend,
                        Tom Van Arden, my old friend.
                    
                    
                        Tom Van Arden, my old friend,
                        I grow prosy, and you tire;
                        Fill the glasses while I bend
                        To prod up the failing fire. . .
                        You are restless:I presume
                        There's a dampness in the room.
                        Much of warmth our nature begs,
                        With rheumatics in our legs!. . .
                    
                    
                    
                        Humph! the legs we used to fling
                        Limber-jointed in the dance,
                        When we heard the fiddle ring
                        Up the curtain of Romance,
                        And in crowded public halls
                        Played with hearts like jugglers'-balls.
                        
                            Feats of mountebanks, depend!
                        
                        Tom Van Arden, my old friend.
                    
                    
                        Tom Van Arden, my old friend,
                        Pardon, then, this theme of mine:
                        While the fire-light leaps to lend
                        Higher color to the wine,
                        I propose a health to those
                        Who have homes, and home's repose,
                        Wife- and child-love without end!
                        . . . Tom Van Arden, my old friend.
                    
                
                
                
                    JUST TO BE GOOD.
                    
                        
                            JUST to be good
                        This is enoughenough!
                        O we who find sin's billows wild and rough,
                        Do we not feel how more than any gold
                        Would be the blameless life we led of old
                        While yet our lips knew but a mother's kiss?
                        Ah! though we miss
                        All else but this,
                        To be good is enough!
                    
                    
                        It is enough
                        Enoughjust to be good!
                        To lift our hearts where they are understood;
                        To let the thirst for worldly power and place
                        Go unappeased; to smile back in God's face
                        With the glad lips our mothers used to kiss.
                        Ah! though we miss
                        All else but this,
                        To be good is enough!
                    
                
                
                
                    HOME AT NIGHT.
                    
                        
                            WHEN chirping crickets fainter cry,
                        And pale stars blossom in the sky,
                        And twilight's gloom has dimmed the bloom
                        And blurred the butterfly:
                    
                    
                        When locust-blossoms fleck the walk,
                        And up the tiger-lily stalk
                        The glow-worm crawls and clings and falls
                        And glimmers down the garden-walls:
                    
                    
                        When buzzing things, with double wings
                        Of crisp and raspish flutterings,
                        Go whizzing by so very nigh
                        One thinks of fangs and stings:
                    
                    
                        O then, within, is stilled the din
                        Of crib she rocks the baby in,
                        And heart and gate and latch's weight
                        Are liftedand the lips of Kate.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE HOOSIER FOLK-CHILD.
                    
                        
                            THE Hoosier Folk-Childall unsung
                        Unlettered all of mind and tongue;
                        Unmastered, unmolestedmade
                        Most wholly frank and unafraid:
                        Untaught of any schoolunvexed
                        Of law or creedall unperplexed
                        Unsermoned, aye, and undefiled,
                        An all imperfect-perfect child
                        A type which (Heaven forgive us!) you
                        And I do tardy honor to,
                        And so, profane the sanctities
                        Of our most sacred memories.
                        Who, growing thus from boy to man,
                        That dares not be American?
                        Go, Pride, with prudent underbuzz
                        Go whistle! as the Folk-Child does.
                    
                    
                        The Hoosier Folk-Child's world is not
                        Much wider than the stable-lot
                        Between the house and highway fence
                        That bounds the home his father rents.
                        His playmates mostly are the ducks
                        And chickens, and the boy that "shucks
                        
                        Corn by the shock," and talks of town,
                        And whether eggs are "up" or "down,"
                        And prophesies in boastful tone
                        Of "owning horses of his own,"
                        And "being his own man," and "when
                        He gets to be, what he'll do then."
                        Takes out his jack-knife dreamily
                        And makes the Folk-Child two or three
                        Crude corn-stalk figures,a wee span
                        Of horses and a little man.
                    
                    
                        The Hoosier Folk-Child's eyes are wise
                        And wide and round as Brownies' eyes:
                        The smile they wear is ever blent
                        With all-expectant wonderment,
                        On homeliest things they bend a look
                        As rapt as o'er a picture-book,
                        And seem to ask, whate'er befall,
                        The happy reason of it all:
                        Why grass is all so glad a green,
                        And leavesand what their lispings mean;
                        Why buds grow on the boughs, and why
                        They burst in blossom by and by
                        As though the orchard in the breeze
                        Had shook and popped its popcorn-trees,
                        To lure and whet, as well they might,
                        Some seven-league giant's appetite!
                    
                    
                    
                        The Hoosier Folk-Child's chubby face
                        Has scant refinement, caste or grace,
                        From crown to chin, and cheek to cheek,
                        It bears the grimy water-streak
                        Of rinsings such as some long rain
                        Might drool across the window-pane
                        Wherethrough he peers, with troubled frown,
                        As some lorn team drives by for town.
                        His brow is elfed with wispish hair,
                        With tangles in it here and there,
                        As though the warlocks snarled it so
                        At midmirk when the moon sagged low,
                        And boughs did toss and skreek and shake,
                        And children moaned themselves awake,
                        With fingers clutched, and starting sight
                        Blind as the blackness of the night!
                    
                    
                        The Hoosier Folk-Child!Rich is he
                        In all the wealth of poverty!
                        He owns nor title nor estate,
                        Nor speech but half articulate,
                        He owns nor princely robe nor crown;
                        Yet, draped in patched and faded brown,
                        He owns the bird-songs of the hills
                        The laughter of the April rills;
                        And his are all the diamonds set
                        In Morning's dewy coronet,
                        
                        And his the Dusk's first minted stars
                        That twinkle through the pasture-bars,
                        And litter all the skies at night
                        With glittering scraps of silver light;
                        The rainbow's bar, from rim to rim,
                        In beaten gold, belongs to him.
                    
                
                
                
                    JACK THE GIANT KILLER.
                    Bad Boy's Version.
                    
                        
                            TELL you a storyan' it's a fac':
                        Wunst wuz a little boy, name wuz Jack,
                        An' he had sword an' buckle an' strap
                        Maked of gold, an' a "'visibul cap;"
                        An' he killed Gi'nts 'at et whole cows
                        Th' horns an' allan' pigs an' sows!
                        But Jack, his golding sword wuz, oh!
                        So awful sharp 'at he could go
                        An' cut th' ole Gi'nts clean in two
                        Fore 'ey knowed what he wuz goin' to do!
                        An' one ole Gi'nt, he had four
                        Heads, and name wuz "Bumblebore"
                        An' he wuz feered o' Jack'cause he,
                        
                            Jack, he killed sixfivetenthree,
                        An' all o' th' uther ole Gi'nts but him:
                        An' thay wuz a place Jack haf to swim
                        'Fore he could git t' ole "Bumblebore"
                        Nen thay was "griffuns" at the door:
                        But Jack, he thist plunged in an' swum
                        Clean acrost; an' when he come
                        
                        To th' uther side, he thist put on
                        His "'visibul cap," an' nen, dog-gone!
                        You could n't see him at all!An' so
                        He slewed the "griffuns"boff, you know!
                        Nen wuz a horn hunged over his head,
                        High on th' wall, an' words 'at read,
                        "Whoever kin this trumput blow
                        Shall cause the Gi'nt's overth'ow!"
                        An' Jack, he thist reached up an' blowed
                        The stuffin' out of it! an' th'owed
                        Th' castul-gates wide open, an'
                        Nen tuck his gold sword in his han',
                        An' thist marched in t' ole "Bumblebore,"
                        An', 'fore he knowed, he put 'bout four
                        Heads on himan' chopped 'em off, too!
                        Wisht 'at I'd been Jack!don't you?
                    
                
                
                
                    WHILE THE MUSICIAN PLAYED.
                    
                        
                            O IT was but a dream I had
                        While the musician played!
                        And her the sky, and here the glad
                        Old ocean kissed the glade
                        And here the laughing ripples ran,
                        And here the roses grew
                        That threw a kiss to every man
                        That voyaged with the crew.
                    
                    
                        Our silken sails in lazy folds
                        Drooped in the breathless breeze:
                        As o'er a field of marigolds
                        Our eyes swam o'er the seas;
                        While here the eddies lisped and purled
                        Around the island's rim,
                        And up from out the underworld
                        We saw the mermen swim.
                    
                    
                        And it was dawn and middle-day
                        And midnightfor the moon
                        On silver rounds across the bay
                        Had climbed the skies of June
                        And there the glowing, glorious king
                        Of day ruled o'er his realm,
                        With stars of midnight glittering
                        About his diadem.
                    
                    
                    
                        The seagull reeled on languid wing
                        In circles round the mast,
                        We heard the songs the sirens sing
                        As we went sailing past;
                        And up and down the golden sands
                        A thousand fairy throngs
                        Flung at us from their flashing hands
                        The echoes of their songs.
                    
                    
                        O it was but a dream I had
                        While the musician played
                        For here the sky, and here the glad
                        Old ocean kissed the glade;
                        And here the laughing ripples ran,
                        And here the roses grew
                        That threw a kiss to every man
                        That voyaged with the crew.
                    
                
                
                
                    AUGUST.
                    
                        
                            A DAY of torpor in the sullen heat
                        Of Summer's passion: In the sluggish stream
                        The panting cattle lave their lazy feet,
                        With drowsy eyes, and dream.
                    
                    
                        Long since the winds have died, and in the sky
                        There lives no cloud to hint of Nature's grief;
                        The sun glares ever like an evil eye,
                        And withers flower and leaf.
                    
                    
                        Upon the gleaming harvest-field remote
                        The thresher lies deserted, like some old
                        Dismantled galleon that hangs afloat
                        Upon a sea of gold.
                    
                    
                        The yearning cry of some bewildered bird
                        Above an empty nest, and truant boys
                        Along the river's shady margin heard
                        A harmony of noise
                    
                    
                        A melody of wrangling voices blent
                        With liquid laughter, and with rippling calls
                        Of piping lips and trilling echoes sent
                        To mimic waterfalls.
                    
                    
                    
                        And through the hazy veil the atmosphere
                        Has draped about the gleaming face of Day,
                        The sifted glances of the sun appear
                        In splinterings of spray.
                    
                    
                        The dusty highway, like a cloud of dawn,
                        Trails o'er the hillside, and the passer-by,
                        A tired ghost in misty shroud, toils on
                        His journey to the sky.
                    
                    
                        And down across the valley's drooping sweep,
                        Withdrawn to farthest limit of the glade,
                        The forest stands in silence, drinking deep
                        Its purple wine of shade.
                    
                    
                        The gossamer floats up on phantom wing;
                        The sailor-vision voyages the skies
                        And carries into chaos everything
                        That freights the weary eyes:
                    
                    
                        Till, throbbing on and on, the pulse of heat
                        Increasesreachespasses fever's height,
                        And Day sinks into slumber, cool and sweet,
                        Within the arms of Night.
                    
                
                
                
                    TO HEAR HER SING.
                    
                        
                            TO hear her singto hear her sing
                        It is to hear the birds of Spring
                        In dewy groves on blooming sprays
                        Pour out their blithest roundelays.
                    
                    
                        It is to hear the robin trill
                        At morning, or the whip-poor-will
                        At dusk, when stars are blossoming
                        To hear her singto hear her sing!
                    
                    
                        To hear her singit is to hear
                        The laugh of childhood ringing clear
                        In woody path or grassy lane
                        Our feet may never fare again.
                    
                    
                        Faint, far away as Memory dwells,
                        It is to hear the village bells
                        At twilight, as the truant hears
                        Them, hastening home, with smiles and tears.
                    
                    
                        Such joy it is to hear her sing,
                        We fall in love with everything
                        The simple things of every day
                        Grow lovelier than words can say.
                    
                    
                    
                        The idle brooks that purl across
                        The gleaming pebbles and the moss,
                        We love no less than classic streams
                        The Rhines and Arnos of our dreams.
                    
                    
                        To hear her singwith folded eyes,
                        It is, beneath Venetian skies,
                        To hear the gondoliers' refrain,
                        Or troubadours of sunny Spain.
                    
                    
                        To hear the bulbul's voice that shook
                        The throat that trilled for Lalla Rookh:
                        What wonder we in homage bring
                        Our hearts to herto hear her sing!
                    
                
                
                
                    BEING HIS MOTHER.
                    
                        
                            BEING his mother,when he goes away
                        I would not hold him overlong, and so
                        Sometimes my yielding sight of him grows O
                        So quick of tears, I joy he did not stay
                        To catch the faintest rumor of them! Nay,
                        Leave always his eyes clear and glad, although
                        Mine own, dear Lord, do fill to overflow;
                        Let his remembered features, as I pray,
                        Smile ever on me! Ah! what stress of love
                        Thou givest me to guard with Thee thiswise:
                        Its fullest speech ever to be denied
                        Mine ownbeing his mother! All thereof
                        Thou knowest only, looking from the skies
                        As when not Christ alone was crucified.
                    
                
                
                
                    JUNE AT WOODRUFF.
                    
                        
                            OUT at Woodruff Placeafar
                        From the city's glare and jar,
                        With the leafy trees, instead
                        Of the awnings, overhead;
                        With the shadows cool and sweet,
                        For the fever of the street;
                        With the silence, like a prayer,
                        Breathing round us everywhere.
                    
                    
                        Gracious anchorage, at last,
                        From the billows of the vast
                        Tide of life that comes and goes,
                        Whence and where nobody knows
                        Moving, like a skeptic's thought,
                        Out of nowhere into naught.
                        Touch and tame us with thy grace,
                        Placid calm of Woodruff Place!
                    
                    
                        Weave a wreath of beechen leaves
                        For the brow that throbs and grieves
                        O'er the ledger, bloody-lined,
                        'Neath the sun-struck window-blind!
                        Send the breath of woodland bloom
                        Through the sick man's prison room,
                        Till his old farm-home shall swim
                        Sweet in mind to hearten him!
                    
                    
                    
                        Out at Woodruff Place the Muse
                        Dips her sandal in the dews,
                        Sacredly as night and dawn
                        Baptize lilied grove and lawn:
                        Woody path, or paven way
                        She doth haunt them night and day,
                        Sun or moonlight through the trees,
                        To her eyes, are melodies.
                    
                    
                        Swinging lanterns, twinkling clear
                        Through night-scenes, are songs to her
                        Tinted lilts and choiring hues,
                        Blent with children's glad halloos;
                        Then belated lays that fade
                        Into midnight's serenade
                        Vine-like words and zithern-strings
                        Twined through all her slumberings.
                    
                    
                        Blessd be each hearthstone set
                        Neighboring the violet!
                        Blessd every rooftree prayed
                        Over by the beech's shade!
                        Blessd doorway, opening where
                        We may look on Naturethere
                        Hand to hand and face to face
                        Storied realm, or Woodruff Place.
                    
                
                
                
                    FARMER WHIPPLE.BACHELOR.
                    
                        
                            IT'S a mystery to see mea man o' fifty-four,
                        Who's lived a cross old bachelor fer thirty year' and more
                        A-lookin' glad and smilin'! And they's none o' you can say
                        That you can guess the reason why I feel so good to-day!
                    
                    
                        I must tell you all about it! But I'll have to deviate
                        A little in beginnin', so's to set the matter straight
                        As to how it comes to happen that I never took a wife
                        Kind o' "crawfish" from the Present to the Springtime of my
                        life!
                    
                    
                        I was brought up in the country; Of a family of five
                        Three brothers and a sisterI'm the only one alive,
                        Fer they all died little babies; and 'twas one o' Mother's ways,
                        You know, to want a daughter; so she took a girl to raise.
                    
                    
                    
                        The sweetest little thing she was, with rosy cheeks, and fat
                        We was little chunks o' shavers then about as high as that!
                        But someway we sort o' suited-like! and Mother
                            she'd declare
                        She never laid her eyes on a more lovin' pair
                    
                    
                        Than we was! So we growed up side by side fer
                            thirteen year',
                        And every hour of it she growed to me more dear!
                        W'y, even Father's dyin', as he did, I do believe
                        Warn't more affectin' to me than it was to see her grieve!
                    
                    
                        I was then a lad o' twenty; and I felt a flash o' pride
                        In thinkin' all depended on me now to pervide
                        Fer Mother and fer Mary; and I went about the place
                        With sleeves rolled upand workin', with a mighty smilin' face.
                    
                    
                        Fer sompin' else was workin'! but not a word I
                            said
                        Of a certain sort o' notion that was runnin' through my head,
                        "Someday I'd mayby marry, and a brother's love
                            was one
                        Thinga lover's was another!" was the way the
                            notion run!
                    
                    
                    
                        I remember onc't in harvest, when the "cradle-in' " was done
                        When the harvest of my summers mounted up to twenty-one
                        I was ridin' home with Mary at the closin' o' the day
                        A-chawin' straws and thinkin', in a lover's lazy way!
                    
                    
                        And Mary's cheeks was burnin' like the sunset down the lane:
                        I noticed she was thinkin', too, and ast her to explain.
                        Wellwhen she turned and kissed me, with her arms around melaw!
                        
                        I'd a bigger load o'heaven than I had a load o' straw!
                    
                    
                        I don't p'tend to learnin', but I'll tell you what's a fac',
                        They's a mighty truthful sayin' somers in a' almanack
                        Er somers'bout "puore happiness"perhaps some
                            folks 'll laugh
                        At the idy"only lastin' jest two seconds and a half."
                    
                    
                        But its jest as true as preachin'!fer that was a
                                sister's kiss,
                        And a sister's lovin' confidence a-tellin' to me this:
                        
                        "She was happy, bein' promised to
                                the son o' farmer Brown."
                        
                        And my feelin's struck a pardnership with sunset and went
                        down!
                    
                    
                        I don't know how I actedI don't know what I said,
                        Fer my heart seemed jest a-turnin' to an ice-cold lump o' lead;
                        And the hosses kindo' glimmered before me in the road,
                        And the lines fell from my fingersand that was all I knowed
                    
                    
                        Ferwell, I don't know how longThey's a dim
                            rememberence
                        Of a sound o' snortin' hosses, and a stake-and-ridered fence
                        A-whizzin' past, and wheat-sheaves a-dancin' in the air,
                        And Mary screamin' "Murder!" and a-runnin' up to where
                    
                    
                        
                            I was layin' by the roadside, and the wagon upside
                            down
                        A-leanin' on the gate-post, with the wheels a whirlin' round!
                        And I tried to raise and meet her, but I couldn't with a vague
                        Sorto' notion comin' to me that I had a broken leg.
                    
                    
                    
                        Well, the women nussed me through it; but many a time I'd sigh
                        As I'd keep a-gittin' better instid o' goin' to die,
                        And wonder what was left me worth livin' fer
                            below,
                        When the girl I loved was married to another, don't you know!
                    
                    
                        And my thoughts was as rebellious as the folks was good and kind
                        When Brown and Mary marriedRailly must a-been my mind
                        
                        Was kindo' out o' kilter!fer I hated Brown, you see,
                        Worse'n pizenand the feller whittled crutches
                            out fer me
                        
                    
                    
                        And done a thousand little ac's o' kindness and respec'
                        And me a-wishin' all the time that I could break his neck!
                        My relief was like a mourner's when the funeral is done
                        When they moved to Illinois in the Fall o' Forty-one.
                    
                    
                        Then I went to work in airnestI had nothin' much in view
                        But to drownd out rickollectionsand it kep' me busy, too!
                        
                        But I slowly thrived and prospered, tel Mother used to say
                        She expected yit to see me a wealthy man some day.
                    
                    
                        Then I'd think how little money was, compared to
                            happiness
                        And who'd be left to use it when I died I couldn't guess!
                        But I've still kep' speculatin' and a-gainin' year by year,
                        Tel I'm payin' half the taxes in the county, mighty near!
                    
                    
                        Well!A year ago er better, a letter comes to hand
                        Astin' how I'd like to dicker fer some Illinois land
                        "The feller that had owned it," it went ahead to state,
                        "Had jest deceased, insolvent, leavin' chance to speculate,"
                    
                    
                        And then it closed by sayin' that I'd "better come and see."
                        I'd never been West, anyhowa most too wild fer me,
                        I'd allus had a notion; but a lawyer here in town
                        Said I'd find myself mistakend when I come to look around.
                    
                    
                    
                        So I bids good-bye to Mother, and I jumps aboard the train,
                        A-thinkin' what I'd bring her when I come back home again
                        And ef she'd had an idy what the present was to be,
                        I think it's more'n likely she'd a-went along with me!
                    
                    
                        Cars is awful tejus ridin', fer all they go so fast!
                        But finally they called out my stoppin'-place at last:
                        And that night, at the tavern, I dreamp' I was a train
                        O' cars, and skeered at sumpin', runnin' down a
                            country lane!
                    
                    
                        Well, in the mornin' airlyafter huntin' up the man
                        The lawyer who was wantin' to swap the piece o' land
                        We started fer the country; and I ast the history
                        Of the farmits former ownerand so-forth, etcetery!
                    
                    
                        Andwellit was interestin'I su'prised him, I
                            suppose,
                        By the loud and frequent manner in which I blowed my nose!
                        But his su'prise was greater, and it made him wonder more,
                        When I kissed and hugged the widder when she met us at the
                        door!
                    
                    
                    
                        
                            It was Mary: They's a feelin' a-hidin' down in here
                        Of course I can't explain it, ner ever make it clear.
                        It was with us in that meetin', I don't want you to fergit!
                        And it makes me kind o' nervous when I think about it yit!
                    
                    
                        I bought that farm, and deeded it, afore I left the town,
                        With "title clear to mansions in the skies," to Mary Brown!
                        And fu'thermore, I took her and the childrenfer
                            you see,
                        They'd never seed their Grandmaand I fetched 'em home with
                        me.
                    
                    
                        So now you've got an idy why a man o'
                            fifty-four,
                        Who's lived a cross old bachelor fer thirty year' and more,
                        Is a-lookin' glad and smilin'!And I've jest come into town
                        To git a pair o' license fer to marry Mary
                            Brown.
                    
                
                
                
                    DAWN, NOON AND DEWFALL.
                    
                        I.
                        
                            Dawn, noon and dewfall! Bluebird and robin
                        Up and at it airly, and the orchard-blossoms bobbin'!
                        Peekin' from the winder, half-awake, and wishin'
                        I could go to sleep agin as well as go a-fishin'!
                    
                    
                        II.
                        On the apern o' the dam, legs a-danglin' over,
                        Drowsy-like with sound o' worter and the smell o'clover:
                        Fish all out a visitin''cept some dratted minnor!
                        Yes, and mill shet down at last and hands is gone to dinner.
                    
                    
                        III.
                        Trompin' home acrost the fields: Lightnin'-bugs a-blinkin'
                        In the wheat like sparks o' things feller keeps a-thinkin':
                        Mother waitin' supper, and the children there to cherr me!
                        And fiddle on the kitchen-wall a-jist a-eechin' fer me!
                    
                
                
                
                    NESSMUK.
                    
                        
                            I HAIL thee, Nessmuk, for the lofty tone
                        Yet simple grace that marks thy poetry!
                        True forester thou art, and still to be,
                        Even in happier fields than thou hast known.
                        Thus, in glad visions, glimpses am I shown
                        Of groves delectable"preserves" for thee
                        Ranged but by friends of thineI name thee three:
                    
                    
                        First, Chaucer, with his bald old pate new-grown
                        With changeless laurel; next, in Lincoln-green,
                        Gold-belted, bowed and bugled, Robin Hood;
                        And next, Ike Walton, patient and serene:
                        These three, O Nessmuk, gathered hunter-wise,
                        Are camped on hither slopes of Paradise
                        To hail thee first and greet thee, as they should.
                    
                
                
                
                    AS MY UNCLE USED TO SAY.
                    
                        
                            I'VE thought a power on men and things,
                        As my uncle ust to say,
                        And ef folks don't work as they pray, i jings!
                        W'y, they ain't no use to pray!
                        Ef you want somepin', and jes dead-set
                        A-pleadin' fer it with both eyes wet,
                        And tears won't bring it, w'y, you try sweat,
                        As my uncle ust to say.
                    
                    
                        They's some don't know their A, B, Cs,
                        As my uncle ust to say,
                        And yit don't waste no candle-grease,
                        Ner whistle their lives away!
                        But ef they can't write no book, ner rhyme
                        No ringin' song fer to last all time,
                        They can blaze the way fer the march sublime,
                        As my uncle ust to say.
                    
                    
                        Whoever's Foreman of all things here,
                        As my uncle ust to say,
                        He knows each job 'at we're best fit fer,
                        And our round-up, night and day:
                        And a-sizin' His work, east and west,
                        And north and south, and worst and best
                        I ain't got nothin' to suggest,
                        As my uncle ust to say.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE SINGER.
                    
                        
                            WHILE with Ambition's hectic flame
                        He wastes the midnight oil,
                        And dreams, high-throned on heights of fame,
                        To rest him from his toil,
                    
                    
                        Death's Angel, like a vast eclipse,
                        Above him spreads her wings,
                        And fans the embers of his lips
                        To ashes as he sings.
                    
                
                
                
                    A FULL HARVEST.
                    
                        
                            SEEMS like a feller'd ort 'o jes' to-day
                        Git down and roll and waller, don't you know,
                        In that-air stubble, and flop up and crow,
                        Seein' sich craps! I'll undertake to say
                        There're no wheat's ever turned out thataway
                        Afore this season!Folks is keerless tho',
                        And too fergitful'caze we'd ort 'o show
                        More thankfulness!Jes' looky hyonder, hey?
                        And watch that little reaper wadin' thue
                        That last old yaller hunk o' harvest-ground
                        Jes' natchur'ly a-slicin' it in-two
                        Like honey-comb, and gaumin' it around
                        The fieldlike it had nothin' else to do
                        On'y jes' waste it all on me and you!
                    
                
                
                
                    BLIND.
                    
                        
                            YOU think it is a sorry thing
                        That I am blind. Your pitying
                        Is welcome to me; yet indeed,
                        I think I have but little need
                        Of it. Though you may marvel much
                        That we, who see by sense of touch
                        And taste and hearing, see things you
                        
                        May never look upon; and true
                        Is it that even in the scent
                        Of blossoms we find something meant
                        No eyes have in their faces read,
                        Or wept to see interpreted.
                    
                    
                        And you might think it strange if now
                        I told you you were smiling. How
                        Do I know that? I hold your hand
                        
                            Its language I can understand
                        Give both to me, and I will show
                        You many other things I know.
                        Listen: We never met before
                        Till now?Well, you are something lower
                        Than five-feet-eight in height; and you
                        Are slender; and your eyes are blue
                    
                    
                    
                        Your mother's eyesyour mother's hair
                        Your mother's likeness everywhere
                        Save in your walkand that is quite
                        Your father's; nervous.Am I right?
                        I thought so. And you used to sing,
                        But have neglected everything
                        Of vocalismthough you may
                        Still thrum on the guitar, and play
                        A little on the violin,
                        I know that by the callous in
                        The finger-tips of your left hand
                        And, by-the-bye, though nature planned
                        You as most men, you are, I see,
                        "Left-handed," too,the mystery
                        Is clear, though,your right arm has been
                        Broken, to "break" the left one in.
                        And so, you see, though blind of sight,
                        I still have ways of seeing quite
                        Too well for you to sympathize
                        Excessively, with your good eyes.
                        Though once, perhaps, to be sincere,
                        Within the whole asylum here,
                        From cupola to basement hall,
                        I was the blindest of them all!
                    
                    
                        Let us move further down the walk
                        The man here waiting hears my talk,
                        
                        And is disturbed; besides, he may
                        Not be quite friendly anyway.
                        In fact(this will be far enough;
                        Sit down)the man just spoken of
                        Was once a friend of mine. He came
                        For treatment here from Burlingame
                        A rich though brilliant student there,
                        Who read his eyes out of repair,
                        And groped his way up here, where we
                        Became acquainted, and where he
                        Met one of our girl-teachers, and,
                        If you'll believe me, asked her hand
                        In marriage, though the girl was blind
                        As I amand the girl declined.
                        
                        Odd, was n't it? Look, you can see
                        Him waiting there. Fine, isn't he?
                        And handsome, eloquently wide
                        And high of brow, and dignified
                        With every outward grace, his sight
                        Restored to him, clear and bright
                        As day-dawn; waiting, waiting still
                        For the blind girl that never will
                        Be wife of his. How do I know?
                        You will recall a while ago
                        I told you he and I were friends.
                        In all that friendship comprehends,
                    
                    
                    
                        I was his friend, I swear! why now,
                        Remembering his love, and how
                        His confidence was all my own,
                        I hear, in fancy, the low tone
                        Of his deep voice, so full of pride
                        And passion, yet so pacified
                        With his affliction, that it seems
                        An utterance sent out of dreams
                        Of saddest melody, withal
                        So sorrowfully musical
                        It was, and is, must ever be
                        But I'm digressing, pardon me.
                        
                            I knew not anything of love
                        In those days, but of that above
                        All worldly passion,for my art
                        Music,and that, with all my heart
                        And soul, blent in a love too great
                        For words of mine to estimate.
                        And though among my pupils she
                        Whose love my friend sought came to me
                        I only knew her fingers' touch
                        Because they loitered overmuch
                        In simple scales, and needs must be
                        Untangled almost constantly.
                        But she was bright in other ways,
                        And quick of thought; with ready plays
                    
                    
                    
                        Of wit, and with a voice as sweet
                        To listen to as one might meet
                        In any oratorio
                        And once I gravely told her so,
                        And, at my words, her limpid tone
                        Of laughter faltered to a moan,
                        And fell from that into a sigh
                        That quavered all so wearily,
                        That I, without the tear that crept
                        Between the keys, had known she wept;
                        And yet the hand I reached for then
                        She caught away, and laughed again.
                        And when that evening I strolled
                        With my old friend, I, smiling, told
                        Him I believed the girl and he
                        Were matched and mated perfectly:
                        He was so noble; she, so fair
                        Of speech, and womanly of air;
                        He, strong, ambitious; she, as mild
                        And artless even as a child;
                        And with a nature, I was sure,
                        As worshipful as it was pure
                        And sweet, and brimmed with tender things
                        Beyond his rarest fancyings.
                        He stopped me solemnly. He knew,
                        He said, how good, and just, and true
                    
                    
                    
                        Was all I said of her; but as
                        For his own virtues, let them pass,
                        Since they were nothing to the one
                        That he had set his heart upon;
                        For but that morning she had turned
                        Forever from him. Then I learned
                        That for a month he had delayed
                        His going from us, with no aid
                        Of hope to hold him,meeting still
                        Her ever firm denial, till
                        Not even in his new-found sight
                        He found one comfort or delight.
                        And as his voice broke there, I felt
                        The brother-heart within me melt
                        In warm compassion for his own
                        That throbbed so utterly alone.
                        And then a sudden fancy hit
                        Along my brain; and coupling it
                        With a belief that I, indeed,
                        Might help my friend in his great need,
                        I warmly said that I would go
                        Myself, if he decided so,
                        And see her for himthat I knew
                        My pleadings would be listened to
                        Most seriously, and that she
                        Should love him, listening to me.
                        
                        Go; bless me! And that was the last
                        The last time his warm hand shut fast
                        Within my ownso empty since,
                        That the remembered finger-prints
                        I've kissed a thousand times, and wet
                        Them with the tears of all regret!
                    
                    
                        I know not how to rightly tell
                        How fared my quest, and what befell
                        Me, coming in the presence of
                        That blind girl, and her blinder love.
                        I know but little else than that
                        Above the chair in which she sat
                        I leantreached for, and found her hand,
                        And held it for a moment, and
                        Took up the otherheld them both
                        As might a friend, I will take oath;
                        Spoke leisurely, as might a man
                        Praying for no thing other than
                        He thinks Heaven's justice:She was blind,
                        I said, and yet a noble mind
                        Most truly loved her; one whose fond
                        Clear-sighted vision looked beyond
                        The bounds of her infirmity,
                        And saw the woman, perfectly
                        Modeled, and wrought out pure and true
                        And lovable. She quailed, and drew
                        
                        Her hands away, but closer still
                        I caught them. "Rack me as you will!"
                        She cried out sharply"Call me 'blind'
                        Love ever isI am resigned!
                        Blind is your friend; as blind as he
                        Am Ibut blindest of the three
                        Yea, blind as deathyou will not see
                        My love for you is killing me!"
                    
                    
                        There is a memory that may
                        Not ever wholly fade away
                        From out my heart, so bright and fair
                        The light of it still glimmers there.
                        Why, it did seem as though my sight
                        Flamed back upon me, dazzling white
                        And godlike. Not one other word
                        Of hers I listened for or heard,
                        But I saw songs sung in her eyes
                        Till they did swoon up drowning-wise,
                        As my mad lips did strike her own
                        And we flashed one and one alone!
                        Ah! was it treachery for me
                        To kneel there, drinking eagerly
                        That torrent-flow of words that swept
                        Out laughingly the tears she wept?
                        
                        Sweet words! O sweeter far, maybe,
                        Than light of day to those that see,
                        God knows, who did the rapture send
                        To me, and hold it from my friend.
                    
                    
                        And we were married half a year
                        Ago,and he iswaiting here,
                        Heedless of thator anything,
                        But just that he is lingering
                        To say good-bye to her, and bow
                        As you may see him doing now,
                        For there's her footstep in the hall;
                        God bless her!help him!save us all!
                    
                
                
                
                    RIGHT HERE AT HOME.
                    
                        
                            RIGHT here at home, boys, in old Hoosierdom,
                        Where strangers allus joke us when they come,
                        And brag o' their old States and interprize
                        Yit settle here; and 'fore they realize,
                        They're "hoosier" as the rest of us, and live
                        Right here at home, boys, with their past fergive'!
                    
                    
                        Right here at home, boys, is the place, I guess,
                        Fer me and you and plain old happiness:
                        We hear the World's lots granderlikely so,
                        We'll take the World's word fer it and not go.
                        We know its ways aint our
                            waysso we'll stay
                        Right here at home, boys, where we know the
                        way.
                    
                    
                        Right here at home, boys, where a well-to-do
                        Man's plenty rich enoughand knows it, too,
                        And's got a' extry dollar, any time,
                        To boost a feller up 'at wants to climb
                        And's got the git-up in him to go in
                        And git there, like he purt'-nigh allus kin!
                    
                    
                    
                        Right here at home, boys, is the place fer us!
                        Where folks' heart's bigger'n their money-pu's';
                        And where a common feller's jes as good
                        As ary other in the neighberhood:
                        The World at large don't worry you and me
                        Right here at home, boys, where we ort to be!
                    
                    
                        Right here at home, boysjes right where we air!
                        Birds do n't sing any sweeter anywhere:
                        Grass do n't grow any greener'n she grows
                        Acrost the pastur' where the old path goes,
                        All things in ear-shot's purty, er in sight,
                        Right here at home, boys, ef we size 'em
                        right.
                    
                    
                        Right here at home, boys, where the old home-place
                        Is sacerd to us as our mother's face,
                        Jes as we rickollect her, last she smiled
                        And kissed usdyin' so and rickonciled,
                        Seein' us all at home herenone astray
                        Right here at home, boys, where she sleeps to-day.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE LITTLE FAT DOCTOR.
                    
                        
                            HE seemed so strange to me, every way
                        In manner, and form, and size,
                        From the boy I knew but yesterday,
                        I could hardly believe my eyes!
                    
                    
                        To hear his name called over there,
                        My memory thrilled with glee
                        And leaped to picture him young and fair
                        In youth, as he used to be.
                    
                    
                        But looking, only as glad eyes can,
                        For the boy I knew of yore,
                        I smiled on a portly little man
                        I had never seen before!
                    
                    
                        Grave as a judge in courtliness
                        Professor-like and bland
                        A little fat doctor and nothing less,
                        With his hat in his kimboed hand.
                    
                    
                        But how we talked old times, and "chaffed"
                        Each other with "Minnie" and "Jim"
                        And how the little fat doctor laughed,
                        And how I laughed with him!
                    
                    
                    
                        "And it's pleasant," I thought, "though I yearn to see
                        The face of the youth that was,
                        To know no boy could smile on me
                        As the little fat doctor does!"
                    
                
                
                
                    THE SHOEMAKER.
                    
                        
                            THOU Poet, who, like any lark,
                        Dost whet thy beak and trill
                        From misty morn till murky dark,
                        Nor ever pipe thy fill:
                        Hast thou not, in thy cheery note,
                        One poor chirp to confer
                        One verseful twitter to devote
                        Unto the Shoe-ma-ker?
                    
                    
                        At early dawn he doth peg in
                        His noble work and brave;
                        And eke from cark and wordly sin
                        He seeketh soles to save;
                        And all day long, with quip and song,
                        Thus stitcheth he the way
                        Our feet may know the right from wrong,
                        Nor ever go a stray.
                    
                    
                        Soak kip in mind the Shoe-ma-ker,
                        Nor slight his lasting fame:
                        Alway he waxeth tenderer
                        In warmth of our acclaim;
                        Aye, more than any artisan
                        We glory in his art
                        Who ne'er, to help the under man,
                        Neglects the upper part,
                    
                    
                    
                        But toe the mark for him, and heel
                        Respond to thee in kine
                        Or kidor calf, shouldst thou reveal
                        A taste so superfine:
                        Thus let him jestjoin in his laugh
                        Draw on his stock, and be
                        A shoer'd there's no rival half-
                        Sole liberal as he.
                    
                    
                        Then, Poet, hail the Shoe-ma-ker
                        For all his goodly deeds,
                        Yea, bless him free for booting thee
                        The first of all thy needs!
                        And when at last his eyes grow dim,
                        And nerveless drops his clamp,
                        In golden shoon pray think of him
                        Upon his latest tramp.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE OLD RETIRED SEA CAPTAIN.
                    
                        
                            THE old sea captain has sailed the seas
                        So long, that the waves at mirth,
                        Or the waves gone wild, and the crests of these,
                        Were as near playmates from birth:
                        He has loved both the storm and the calm, because
                        They seemed as his brothers twain,
                        The flapping sail was his soul's applause,
                        And his rapture, the roaring main.
                    
                    
                        But nowlike a battered hulk seems he,
                        Cast high on a foreign strand,
                        Though he feels "in port," as it need must be,
                        And the stay of a daugher's hand
                        Yet ever the round of the listless hours,
                        His pipe, in the languid air
                        The grass, the trees, and the garden flowers,
                        And the strange earth everywhere!
                    
                    
                        And so betimes he is restless here
                        In this little inland town,
                        With never a wing in the atmosphere
                        But the wind-mill's, up and down;
                        His daughter's home in this peaceful vale,
                        And his grandchild 'twixt his knees
                        But never the hail of a passing sail,
                        Nor the surge of the angry seas!
                    
                    
                    
                        He quits his pipe, and he snaps its neck
                        Would speak, though he coughs instead,
                        Then paces the porch like a quarter-deck
                        With a reeling mast o'erhead!
                        Ho! the old sea captain's cheeks glow warm,
                        And his eyes gleam grim and weird,
                        As he mutters about, like a thunder-storm,
                        In the cloud of his beetling beard.
                    
                
                
                
                    ROBERT BURNS WILSON.
                    
                        
                            WHAT intuition named thee?Through what thrill
                        Of the awed soul came the command divine
                        Into the mother-heart, foretelling thine
                        Should palpitate with his whose raptures will
                        Sing on while daisies bloom and lavrocks trill
                        There undulating ways up through the fine
                        Fair mists of heavenly reaches? Thy pure line
                        Falls as the dew of anthems, quiring still
                        The sweeter since the Scottish singer raised
                        His voice therein, and, quit of every stress
                        Of earthly ache and longing and despair,
                        Knew certainly each simple thing he praised
                        Was no less worthy, for its lowliness,
                        Than any joy of all the glory There.
                    
                
                
                
                    TO THE SERENADER.
                    
                        
                            TINKLE on, O sweet guitar,
                        Let the dancing fingers
                        Loiter where the low notes are
                        Blended with the singer's:
                        Let the midnight pour the moon's
                        Mellow wine of glory
                        Down upon him through the tune's
                        Old romantic story!
                    
                    
                        I am listening, my love,
                        Through the cautious lattice,
                        Wondering why the stars above
                        All are blinking at us;
                        Wondering if his eyes from there
                        Catch the moonbeam's shimmer
                        As it lights the robe I wear
                        With a ghostly glimmer.
                    
                    
                        Lilt thy song, and lute away
                        In the wildest fashion:
                        Pour thy rippling roundelay
                        O'er the heights of passion!
                        Flash it down the fretted strings
                        Till thy mad lips, missing
                        All but smothered whisperings,
                        Press this rose I'm kissing.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE WIFE-BLESSED.
                    
                        I.
                        
                            IN youth he wrought, with eyes ablur,
                        Lorn-faced and long of hair
                        In youthin youth he painted her
                        A sister of the air
                        Could clasp her not, but felt the stir
                        Of pinions everywhere.
                    
                    
                        II.
                        She lured his gaze, in braver days,
                        And tranced him sirenwise;
                        And he did paint her, through a haze
                        Of sullen paradise,
                        With scars of kisses on her face
                        And embers in her eyes.
                    
                    
                        III.
                        And nownor dream nor wild conceit
                        Though faltering, as before
                        Through tears he paints her, as is meet,
                        Tracing the dear face o'er
                        With lilied patience meek and sweet
                        As Mother Mary wore.
                    
                
                
                
                    SISTER JONES'S CONFESSION.
                    
                        
                            I THOUGHT the deacon liked me, yit
                        I warn't adzackly shore of it
                        Fer, mind ye, time and time agin,
                        When jiners 'ud be comin' in,
                        I'd seed him shakin' hands as free
                        With all the sistern as with me!
                        But jurin' last Revival, where
                        He called on me to lead in prayer,
                        An' kneeled there with me, side by side,
                        A-whisper'n' "he felt sanctified
                        Jes' tetchin of my gyarment's hem,"
                        That settled things as fur as them-
                        Thare other wimmin was concerned!
                        Andwell!I know I must a-turned
                        A dozen colors!Flurried?la!
                        
                        No mortal sinner never saw
                        A gladder widder than the one
                        A-kneelin' there and wonderun'
                        Who'd pray!So glad, upon my word,
                        I railly couldn't thank the Lord!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE CURSE OF THE WANDERING FOOT.
                    
                        
                            ALL hope of rest withdrawn me?
                        What dread command hath put
                        This awful curse upon me
                        The curse of the wandering foot!
                        Forward and backward and thither,
                        And hither and yon again
                        Wandering ever! And whither?
                        Answer them, God! Amen.
                    
                    
                        The blue skies are far o'er me
                        The bleak fields near below:
                        Where the mother that bore me?
                        Where her grave in the snow?
                        Glad in her trough of a coffin
                        The sad eyes frozen shut
                        That wept so often, often,
                        The curse of the wandering foot!
                    
                    
                        Here in your marts I care not
                        Whatsoever ye think.
                        Good folk many who dare not
                        Give me to eat and drink:
                        Give me to sup of your pity
                        Feast me on prayers!O ye,
                        Met I your Christ in the city
                        He would fare forth with me
                    
                    
                    
                        Forward and onward and thither,
                        And hither again and yon,
                        With milk for our drink together
                        And honey to feed upon
                        Nor hope of rest withdrawn us,
                        Since the one Father put
                        The blessd curse upon us
                        The curse of the wandering foot.
                    
                
                
                
                    A MONUMENT FOR THE SOLDIERS.
                    
                        
                            A MONUMENT for the Soldiers!
                        And what will ye build it of?
                        Can ye build it of marble, or brass, or bronze,
                        Outlasting the Soldiers' love?
                        Can ye glorify it with legends
                        As grand as their blood hath writ
                        From the inmost shrine of this land of thine
                        To the outermost verge of it?
                    
                    
                        And the answer came: We would build it
                        Out of our hopes made sure,
                        And out of our purest prayers and tears,
                        And out of our faith secure:
                        We would build it out of the great white truths
                        Their death hath sanctified,
                        And the sculptured forms of the men in arms,
                        And their faces ere they died.
                    
                    
                        And what heroic figures
                        Can the sculptor carve in stone?
                        Can the marble breast be made to bleed,
                        And the marble lips to moan?
                        Can the marble brow be fevered?
                        And the marble eyes be graved
                        To look their last, as the flag floats past,
                        On the country they have saved?
                    
                    
                    
                        And the answer came: The figures
                        Shall all be fair and brave,
                        And, as befitting, as pure and white
                        As the stars above their grave!
                        The marble lips, and breast and brow
                        Whereon the laurel lies,
                        Bequeath us right to guard the flight
                        Of the old flag in the skies!
                    
                    
                        A monument for the Soldiers!
                        Built of a people's love,
                        And blazoned and decked and panoplied
                        With the hearts ye build it of!
                        And see that ye build it stately,
                        In pillar and niche and gate,
                        And high in pose as the souls of those
                        It would commemorate!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE RIVAL.
                    
                        
                            I SO loved once, when Death came by I hid
                        Away my face,
                        And all my sweetheart's tresses she undid
                        To make my hiding-place.
                    
                    
                        The dread shade passed me thus unheeding; and
                        I turned me then
                        To calm my lovekiss down her shielding hand
                        And comfort her again.
                    
                    
                        And lo! she answered not: And she did sit
                        All fixedly,
                        With her fair face and the sweet smile of it,
                        In love with Death, not me.
                    
                
                
                
                    IRY AND BILLY AND JO.
                    
                        
                            IRY an' Billy an' Jo!
                        Iry an' Billy's the boys,
                        An' Jo's their dog, you know,
                        Their pictur's took all in a row.
                        Bet they kin kick up a noise
                        Iry and Billy, the boys,
                        And that-air little dog Jo!
                    
                    
                        
                            Iry's the one 'at stands
                        Up there a-lookin' so mild
                        An' meekwith his hat in his hands,
                        Like such a 'bediant child
                        (Sakes-alive!)An' Billy he
                            sets
                        In the cheer an' holds onto Jo an' sweats
                        
                        Hisse'f, a-lookin' so good! Ho-ho!
                        Iry an' Billy an' Jo!
                    
                    
                        Yit the way them boys, you know,
                        Usen to jes turn in
                        An' fight over that dog Jo
                        Wuz a burnin'-shame-an'-a-sin!
                        
                        Iry he'd argy 'at, by gee-whizz!
                        That-air little Jo-dog wuz his!
                        
                        An' Billy he'd claim it wuzn't so
                        'Cause the dog wuz his'n!An' at it they'd go,
                        Nip-an'-tugg, tooth-an'-toenail, you know
                        Iry an' Billy an' Jo!
                    
                    
                        But their Pa(He wuz the marshal then)
                        He 'tended-like 'at he jerked 'em
                            up;
                        An' got a jury o' Brickyard men
                        An' helt a trial about the pup:
                        An' he says he jes like to
                            a-died
                        When the rest o' us town-boys testified
                        
                        Regardin', you know,
                        Iry an' Billy an' Jo.
                    
                    
                        'Cause we all knowed, when the Gypsies they
                        Camped down here by the crick last Fall,
                        They brung Jo with 'em, an' give him away
                        To Iry an' Billy fer nothin' at all!
                        So the jury fetched in the verdick so
                        Jo he ain't neether o' theirn fer
                                shore
                        
                        He's both their dog, an' jes no
                            more!
                        An' so
                        They've quit quarrelin' long ago,
                        Iry an' Billy an' Jo.
                    
                
                
                
                    A WRAITH OF SUMMERTIME.
                    
                        
                            IN its color, shade and shine,
                        'T was a summer warm as wine,
                        With an effervescent flavoring of flowered bough and vine,
                        And a fragrance and a taste
                        Of ripe roses gone to waste,
                        And a dreamy sense of sun- and moon- and star-light interlaced.
                    
                    
                        'T was a summer such as broods
                        O'er enchanted solitudes,
                        Where the hand of Fancy leads us through voluptuary moods,
                        And with lavish love out-pours
                        All the wealth of out-of-doors,
                        And woos our feet o'er velvet paths and honeysuckle floors.
                    
                    
                        'T was a summertime long dead,
                        And its roses, white and red,
                        And its reeds and water-lilies down along the river-bed,
                        O they all are ghostly things
                        For the ripple never sings,
                        And the rocking lily never even rustles as it rings!
                    
                
                
                
                    HER BEAUTIFUL EYES.
                    
                        
                            O HER beautiful eyes! they are as blue as the dew
                        On the violet's bloom when the morning is new,
                        And the light of their love is the gleam of the sun
                        O'er the meadows of Spring where the quick shadows run:
                        As the morn shifts the mists and the clouds from the skies
                        So I stand in the dawn of her beautiful eyes.
                    
                    
                        And her beautiful eyes are as midday to me,
                        When the lily-bell bends with the weight of the bee,
                        And the throat of the thrush is a-pulse in the heat,
                        And the senses are drugged with the subtle and sweet
                        And delirious breaths of the air's lullabies
                        So I swoon in the noon of her beautiful eyes.
                    
                    
                        O her beautiful eyes! they have smitten mine own
                        As a glory glanced down from the glare of The Throne;
                        And I reel, and I falter and fall, as afar
                        Fell the shepherds that looked on the mystical Star,
                        And yet dazed in the tidings that bade them arise
                        So I grope through the night of her beautiful eyes.
                    
                
                
                
                    DOT LEEDLE BOY.
                    
                        
                            OT'S a leedle Ghristmas story
                        Dot I told der leedle folks
                        Und I vant you stop dot laughin'
                        Und grackin' funny jokes!
                        So-help me Peter-Moses!
                        Ot's no time for monkeyshine',
                        Ober I vas told you somedings
                        Of dot leedle boy of mine!
                    
                    
                        Ot vas von cold Vinter vedder,
                        Ven der snow vas all about
                        Dot you have to chop der hatchet
                        Eef you got der saur kraut!
                        Und der cheekens on der hind-leg
                        Vas standin' in der shine
                        Der sun shmile out dot morning
                        On dot leedle boy of mine.
                    
                    
                        He vas yoost a leedle baby
                        Not bigger as a doll
                        Dot time I got acquaintet
                        Ach! you ought to heard 'im squall!
                        I grackys! dot's der moosic
                        Ot make me feel so fine
                        Ven first I vas been marriet
                        Oh, dot leedle boy of mine!
                    
                    
                    
                        He look' yoost like his fader!
                        So, ven der vimmen said
                        "Vot a purty leedle baby!"
                        Katrina shake der head. . . .
                        I dink she must a-notice
                        Dot der baby vas a-gryin',
                        Und she cover up der blankets
                        Of dot leedle boy of mine.
                    
                    
                        Vel, ven he vas got bigger,
                        Dot he grawl und bump his nose,
                        Und make der table over,
                        Und molasses on his glothes
                        Dot make 'im all der sveeter,
                        So I say to my Katrine
                        "Better you vas quit a-shpankin'
                        Dot leedle boy of mine!"
                    
                    
                        I vish you could a-seen id
                        Ven he glimb up on der chair
                        Und shmash der lookin' glasses
                        Ven he try to comb his hair
                        Mit a hammer!Und Katrina
                        Say "Dot's an ugly sign!"
                        But I laugh und vink my fingers
                        At dot leedle boy of mine.
                    
                    
                    
                        But vonce, dot Vinter morning,
                        He shlip out in der snow
                        Mitout no stockin's on 'im.
                        He say he "vant to go
                        Und fly some mit der birdies!"
                        Und ve give 'im medi-cine
                        Ven he catch der "parrygoric"
                        Dot leedle boy of mine!
                    
                    
                        Und so I set und nurse 'im,
                        Vile der Ghristmas vas come roun',
                        Und I told 'im 'bout "Kriss Kringle,"
                        How he come der chimbly down:
                        Und I ask 'im eef he love 'im
                        Eef he bring 'im someding fine?
                        "Nicht besser as mein fader,"
                        Say dot leedle boy of mine.
                    
                    
                        Und he put his arms aroun' me
                        Und hug so close und tight,
                        I hear der gclock a-tickin'
                        All der balance of der night! . . .
                        Someding make me feel so funny
                        Ven I say to my Katrine
                        "Let us go und fill der stockin's
                        Of dot leedle boy of mine."
                    
                    
                    
                        Vell.Ve buyed a leedle horses
                        Dot you pull 'im mit a shtring,
                        Und a leedle fancy jay-bird
                        Eef you vant to hear 'im sing
                        You took 'im by der top-knot
                        Und yoost blow in behine
                        Und dot make much spectakel
                        
                        For dot leedle boy of mine!
                    
                    
                        Und gandies, nuts and raizens
                        Unt I buy a leedle drum
                        Dot I vant to hear 'im rattle
                        Ven der Gristmas morning come!
                        Und a leedle shmall tin rooster
                        Dot vould crow so loud und fine
                        Ven he sqveeze 'im in der morning,
                        Dot leedle boy of mine!
                    
                    
                        Undvile ve vas a-fixin'
                        Dot leedle boy vake out!
                        I t'ought he been a-dreamin'
                        "Kriss Kringle" vas about,
                        For he say"Dot's him!
                            I see 'im
                        
                        
                            Mit der shtars dot make der shine!"
                        Und he yoost keep on a-gryin'
                        Dot leedle boy of mine,
                    
                    
                    
                        Und gottin' vorse und vorser
                        Und tumble on der bed!
                        Soven der doctor seen id,
                        He kindo' shake his head,
                        Und feel his pulseund visper
                        "Der boy is a-dyin'."
                        You dink I could believe id?
                        
                            Dot leedle boy of mine?
                        
                    
                    
                        I told you, friendsdot's someding,
                        Der last time dot he speak
                        Und say "Goot-bye, Kriss Kringle!"
                        
                            Dot make me feel so veak
                        
                        I yoost kneel down und drimble,
                        Und bur-sed out a-gryin'
                        "Mein Gott, mein Gott im Himmel!
                        
                        
                            Dot leedle boy of mine!"
                    
                    
                        Der sun do n't shine dot Gristmas!
                        . . . Eef dot leedle boy vould liff'
                            d
                        
                        No deefer-en'! for Heaven vas
                        His leedle Gristmas-gift! . . .
                        Und der rooster, und der gandy,
                        Und meund my Katrine
                        Und der jay-birdis a-vaiting
                        For dot leedle boy of mine.
                    
                
                
                
                    DONN PIATT OF MAC-O-CHEE.
                    
                        I.
                        
                            DONN Piattof Mac-o-chee,
                        Not the one of History,
                        Who, with flaming tongue and pen,
                        Scathes the vanities of men;
                        Not the one whose biting wit
                        Cuts pretense and etches it
                        On the brazen brow that dares
                        Filch the laurel that it wears:
                        Not the Donn Piatt whose praise
                        Echoes in the noisy ways
                        Of the faction, onward led
                        By the statesman!But, instead,
                        Give the simple man to me,
                        Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee!
                    
                    
                        II.
                        Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee!
                        Branches of the old oak tree,
                        Drape him royally in fine
                        Purple shade and golden shine!
                        
                        Emerald plush of sloping lawn
                        Be the throne he sits upon!
                        And, O Summer sunset, thou
                        Be his crown, and gild a brow
                        Softly smoothed and soothed and calmed
                        By the breezes, mellow-palmed
                        As Erata's white hand agleam
                        On the forehead of a dream.
                        So forever rule o'er me,
                        Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee!
                    
                    
                        III.
                        Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee:
                        Through a lilied memory
                        Plays the wayward little creek
                        Round thy home at hide-and-seek
                        As I see and hear it, still
                        Romping round the wooded hill,
                        Till its laugh-and-babble blends
                        With the silence while it sends
                        Glances back to kiss the sight,
                        In its bayish delight,
                        Ere it strays amid the gloom
                        Of the glens that burst in bloom
                        Of the rarest rhyme for thee,
                        Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee!
                    
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee!
                        What a darling destiny
                        Has been mineto meet him there
                        Lolling in an easy chair
                        On the terrace, while he told
                        Reminiscences of old
                        Letting my cigar die out,
                        Hearing poems talked about;
                        And entranced to hear him say
                        Gentle things of Thackeray,
                        Dickens, Hawthorne, and the rest,
                        Known to him as host and guest
                        Known to him as he to me
                        Donn Piatt of Mac-o-chee!
                    
                
                
                
                    THEM FLOWERS.
                    
                        
                            TAKE a feller 'at's sick and laid up on the shelf,
                        All shaky, and ga'nted, and pore
                        Jes all so knocked out he can't handle hisself
                        With a stiff upper-lip any more;
                        Shet him up all alone in the gloom of a room
                        As dark as the tomb, and as grim,
                        And then take and send him some roses in bloom,
                        And you can have fun out o' him!
                    
                    
                        You've ketched him 'fore nowwhen his liver was sound
                        And his appetite notched like a saw
                        A-mockin' you, mayby, fer romancin' round
                        With a big posy-bunch in yer paw;
                        But you ketch him, say, when his health is away,
                        And he's flat on his back in distress,
                        And then you kin trot out yer little bokay
                        And not be insulted, I guess!
                    
                    
                        You see, it's like this, what his weaknesses is,
                        Them flowers makes him think of the days
                        Of his innocent youth, and that mother o' his,
                        And the roses that she us't to
                            raise:
                        
                        So here, all alone with the roses you send
                        Bein' sick and all trimbly and faint,
                        My eyes ismy eyes ismy eyes isold friend
                        Is a-leakin'I'm blamed ef they ain't!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE QUIET LODGER.
                    
                        
                            THE man that rooms next door to me:
                        Two weeks ago, this very night,
                        He took possession quietly,
                        As any other lodger might
                        But why the room next mine should so
                        Attract him I was vexed to know,
                        Because his quietude, in fine,
                        Was far superior to mine.
                    
                    
                        "Now, I like quiet, truth to tell,
                        A tranquil life is sweet to me
                        But this," I sneered, "suits me too well.
                        He shuts his door so noiselessly,
                        And glides about so very mute,
                        In each mysterious pursuit,
                        His silence is oppressive, and
                        Too deep for me to understand."
                    
                    
                        Sometimes, forgetting book or pen,
                        I've found my head in breathless poise
                        Lifted, and dropped in shame again,
                        Hearing some alien ghost of noise
                        Some smothered sound that seemed to be
                        A trunk-lid dropped unguardedly,
                        Or the crisp writhings of some quire
                        Of manuscript thrust in the fire.
                    
                    
                    
                        Then I have climbed, and closed in vain
                        My transom, opening in the hall;
                        Or close against the window-pane
                        Have pressed my fevered face,but all
                        The day or night without held not
                        A sight or sound or counter-thought
                        To set my mind one instant free
                        Of this man's silent mastery.
                    
                    
                        And often I have paced the floor
                        With muttering anger, far at night,
                        Hearing, and cursing, o'er and o'er,
                        The muffled noises, and the light
                        And tireless movements of this guest
                        Whose silence raged above my rest
                        Hoarser than howling storms at sea
                        The man that rooms next door to me.
                    
                    
                        But twice or thrice, upon the stair,
                        I've seen his facemost strangely wan,
                        Each time upon me unaware
                        He camesmooth'd past me, and was gone.
                        So like a whisper he went by,
                        I listened after, ear and eye,
                        Nor could my chafing fancy tell
                        The meaning of one syllable.
                    
                    
                    
                        Last night I caught him, face to face,
                        He entering his room, and I
                        Glaring from mine: He paused a space
                        And met my scowl all shrinkingly,
                        But with full gentleness: The key
                        Turned in his doorand I could see
                        It tremblingly withdrawn and put
                        Inside, and thenthe door was shut.
                    
                    
                        Then silence. Silence!why, last night
                        The silence was tumultuous,
                        And thundered on till broad daylight;
                        O never has it stunned me thus!
                        It rolls, and moans, and mumbles yet.
                        Ah, God! how loud may silence get
                        When man mocks at a brother man
                        Who answers but as silence can!
                    
                    
                        The silence grew, and grew, and grew,
                        Till at high noon to-day 't was heard
                        Throughout the house; and men flocked through
                        The echoing halls, with faces blurred
                        With pallor, gloom, and fear, and awe,
                        And shuddering at what they saw
                        The quiet lodger, as he lay
                        Stark of the life he cast away.
                    
                    
                    
                        So strange to-nightthose voices there,
                        Where all so quiet was before:
                        They say the face has not a care
                        Nor sorrow in it any more
                        His latest scrawl:"Forgive meYou
                        Who prayed, 'they know not what they do!' "
                        My tears will never let me see
                        This man that rooms next door to me!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE WATCHES OF THE NIGHT.
                    
                        
                            O THE waiting in the watches of the night!
                        In the darkness, desolation, and contrition and affright;
                        The awful hush that holds us shut away from all delight:
                        The ever weary memory that ever weary goes
                        Recounting ever over every aching loss it knows
                        The ever weary eyelids gasping ever for repose
                        In the dreary, weary watches of the night!
                    
                    
                        Darkstifling darkthe watches of the night!
                        With tingling nerves at tension, how the blackness flashes white
                        With spectral visitations smitten past the inner sight!
                        What shuddering sense of wrongs we've wrought that may
                            not be redressed
                        Of tears we did not brush awayof lips we left
                            unpressed,
                        And hands that we let fall, with all their loyalty
                            unguessed!
                        Ah! the empty, empty watches of the night!
                    
                    
                    
                        What solace in the watches of the night?
                        What frailest staff of hope to staywhat faintest shaft of light?
                        Do we dream and dare believe
                            it, that by never weight of right
                        Of our own poor weak deservings, we shall win the dawn
                            at last
                        Our famished souls find freedom from this penance for
                            the past,
                        In a faith that leaps and lightens from the gloom that
                            flees aghast
                        Shall we survive the watches of the night?
                    
                    
                        One leads us through the watches of the night
                        By the ceaseless intercession of our loved ones lost to sight
                        He is with us through all trials, in His mercy and His might;
                        With our mothers there about Him, all our sorrow
                            disappears,
                        Till the silence of our sobbing is the prayer the
                            Master hears,
                        And His hand is laid upon us with the tenderness of
                            tears
                        In the waning of the watches of the night.
                    
                
                
                
                    HIS VIGIL.
                    
                        
                            CLOSE the book and dim the light,
                        I shall read no more to-night.
                        NoI am not sleepy, dear
                        Do not go: sit by me here
                        In the darkness and the deep
                        Silence of the watch I keep.
                        Something in your presence so
                        Soothes meas in long ago
                        I first felt your handas now
                        In the darkness touch my brow:
                        I've no other wish than you
                        Thus should fold mine eyelids to,
                        Saying nought of sigh or tear
                        Just as God were sitting here.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE PLAINT HUMAN
                    
                        
                            SEASON of snows, and season of flowers,
                        Seasons of loss and gain!
                        Since grief and joy must alike be ours,
                        Why do we still complain?
                    
                    
                        Ever our failing, from sun to sun,
                        O my intolerent brother:
                        We want just a little too little of one,
                        And much too much of the other.
                    
                
                
                
                    BY ANY OTHER NAME.
                    
                        
                            FIRST the teacher called the roll,
                        Clos't to the beginnin',
                        "Addeliney Bowersox!"
                        Set the school a-grinnin'.
                        Wintertime, and stingin'-cold
                        When the session took up
                        Cold as we all looked at her,
                        Though she could n't look up!
                    
                    
                        Total stranger to us, too
                        Country-folks ain't allus
                        Nigh so shameful unpolite
                        As some people call us!
                        But the honest facts is, then,
                        Addeliney Bower-
                        Sox's feelin's was so hurt
                        She cried half an hour!
                    
                    
                        My dest was acrost from her'n:
                        Set and watched her tryin'
                        To p'tend she did n't keer,
                        And a kind o' dryin'
                        Up her tears with smilestel I
                        Thought, "Well, 'Addeliney
                        
                        
                            Bowersox' is plain, but she's
                        
                        Purty as a piney!"
                    
                    
                    
                        It's be'n many of a year
                        Sence that most oncommon
                        Cur'ous name o' Bowersox
                        
                        Struck me so abomin-
                        Nubble and outlandish-like!
                        I changed it to Adde-
                        Liney Daubenspeckand that
                        
                        Nearly killed her Daddy!
                    
                
                
                
                    TO AN IMPORTUNATE GHOST.
                    
                        
                            GET gone, thou most uncomfortable ghost!
                        Thou really dost annoy me with thy thin
                        Impalpable transparency of grin;
                        And the vague, shadowy shape of thee almost
                        Hath vext me beyond boundary and coast
                        Of my broad patience. Stay thy chattering chin,
                        And reel the tauntings of thy vain tongue in,
                        Nor tempt me further with thy vaporish boast
                        That I am helpless to combat thee!
                            Well,
                        Have at thee, then! Yet if a doom most dire
                        Thou wouldst escape, flee whilst thou canst!Revile
                        Me not, Miasmic Mist!Rank Air! retire!
                        
                        One instant longer an thou haunt'st me, I'll
                        
                            Inhale thee, O thou wraith despicable!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE QUARREL.
                    
                        
                            THEY faced each other: Topaz-brown
                        And lambent burnt her eyes and shot
                        Sharp flame at his of amethyst.
                        "I hate you! Go, and be forgot
                        As death forgets!" their glitter hissed
                        
                        (So seemed it) in their hatred. Ho!
                        Dared any mortal front her so?
                        Tempestuous eyebrows knitted down
                        Tense nostril, mouthno muscle slack,
                        And blackthe suffocating black
                        The stifling blackness of her frown!
                    
                    
                        Ah! but the lifted face of her!
                        And the twitched lip and tilted head!
                        Yet he did neither wince nor stir,
                        Onlyhis hands clenched; and, instead
                        Of words, he answered with a stare
                        That stammered not in aught it said,
                        As might his voice if trusted there.
                    
                    
                        And whatwhat spake his steady gaze?
                        Was there a look that harshly fell
                        To scoff her?or a syllable
                        Of anger?or the bitter phrase
                        That myrrhs the honey of love's lips,
                        Or curdles blood as poison drips?
                        
                        What made their breasts to heave and swell
                        As billows under bows of ships
                        In broken seas on stormy days?
                        We may not knownor they indeed
                        What mercy found them in their need.
                    
                    
                        A sudden sunlight smote the gloom;
                        And round about them swept a breeze,
                        With faint breaths as of clover-bloom;
                        A bird was heard, through drone of bees,
                        Then, far and clear and eerily,
                        A child's voice from an orchard-tree
                        Then laughter, sweet as the perfume
                        Of lilacs, could the hearing see.
                        And heO Love! he fed thy name
                        On bruisd kisses, while her dim
                        Deep eyes, with all their inner flame,
                        Like drowning gems were turned on him.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE OLD YEAR AND THE NEW.
                    
                        I.
                        
                            AS one in sorrow looks upon
                        The dead face of a loyal friend,
                        By the dim light of New Year's dawn
                        I saw the Old Year end.
                    
                    
                        Upon the pallid features lay
                        The dear old smileso warm and bright
                        Ere thus its cheer had died away
                        In ashes of delight.
                    
                    
                        The hands that I had learned to love
                        With strength of passion half divine,
                        Were folded now, all heedless of
                        The emptiness of mine.
                    
                    
                        The eyes that once had shed their bright
                        Sweet looks like sunshine, now were dull,
                        And ever lidded from the light
                        That made them beautiful.
                    
                    
                    
                        II.
                        The chimes of bells were in the air,
                        And sounds of mirth in hall and street,
                        With pealing laughter everywhere
                        And throb of dancing feet:
                    
                    
                        The mirth and the convivial din
                        Of revelers in wanton glee,
                        With tunes of harp and violin
                        In tangled harmony.
                    
                    
                        But with a sense of nameless dread,
                        I turned me, from the merry face
                        Of this newcomer, to my dead;
                        And, kneeling there a space,
                    
                    
                        I sobbed aloud, all tearfully:
                        By this dear face so fixed and cold,
                        O Lord, let not this New Year be
                        As happy as the old!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE HEREAFTER.
                    
                        
                            HEREAFTER! O we need not waste
                        Our smiles or tears, whate'er befall:
                        No happiness but holds a taste
                        Of something sweeter, after all;
                        No depth of agony but feels
                        Some fragment of abiding trust,
                        Whatever death unlocks or seals,
                        The mute beyond is just.
                    
                
                
                
                    >JOHN BROWN.
                    
                        
                            WRIT in between the lines of his life-deed
                        We trace the sacred service of a heart
                        Answering the Divine command, in every part
                        Bearing on human weal: His love did feed
                        The loveless; and his gentle hands did lead
                        The blind, and lift the weak, and balm the smart
                        Of other wounds than rankled at the dart
                        In his own breast, that gloried thus to bleed.
                        He served the lowliest firstnay, them alone
                        The most despisd that e'er wreaked vain breath
                        In cries of suppliance in the reign whereat
                        Red Guilt sate squat upon her spattered throne.
                        For these doomed there it was he went to death.
                        God! how the merest man loves one like that!
                    
                
                
                
                    A CUP OF TEA.
                    
                        
                            I HAVE sipped, with drooping lashes,
                        Dreamy draughts of Verzenay;
                        I have flourished brandy-smashes
                        In the wildest sort of way;
                        I have joked with "Tom and Jerry"
                        Till "wee hours ayont the twal'
                        But I've found my tea the very
                        Safest tipple of them all!
                    
                    
                        'T is a mystical potation
                        That exceeds in warmth of glow
                        And divine exhilaration
                        All the drugs of long ago
                        All of old magicians' potions
                        Of Medea's filtered spells
                        Or of fabled isles and oceans
                        Where the Lotos-eater dwells!
                    
                    
                        Though I've reveled o'er late lunches
                        With blas dramatic stars,
                        And absorbed their wit and punches
                        And the fumes of their cigars
                        Drank in the latest story,
                        With a cock-tail either end,
                        I have drained a deeper glory
                        In a cup of tea, my friend,
                    
                    
                    
                        Green, Black, Moyune, Formosa,
                        Congou, Amboy, Pingsuey
                        No odds the name it knowsah!
                        Fill a cup of it for me!
                        And, as I clink my china
                        Against your goblet's brim,
                        My tea in steam shall twine a
                        Fragrant laurel round its rim.
                    
                
                
                
                    JUDITH.
                    
                        
                            OHER eyes are amber-fine
                        Dark and deep as wells of wine,
                        While her smile is like the noon
                        Splendor of a day of June.
                        If she sorrowlo! her face
                        It is like a flowery space
                        In bright meadows, overlaid
                        With light clouds and lulled with shade.
                        If she laughit is the trill
                        Of the wayward whippoorwill
                        Over upland pastures, heard
                        Echoed by the mocking-bird
                        In dim thickets dense with bloom
                        And blurred cloyings of perfume.
                        If she sigha zephyr swells
                        Over odorous asphodels
                        And wan lilies in lush plots
                        Of moon-drown'd forget-me-nots.
                        Then, the soft touch of her hand
                        Takes all breath to understand
                        What to liken it thereto!
                        Never roseleaf rinsed with dew
                        Might slip soother-suave than slips
                        Her slow palm, the while her lips
                        Swoon through mine, with kiss on kiss
                        Sweet as heated honey is.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE ARTEMUS OF MICHIGAN.
                    
                        
                            GRAND HAVEN is in Michigan, and in possession, too,
                        Of as many rare attractions as our party ever knew:
                        The fine hotel, the landlord, and the lordly bill of fare,
                        And the dainty-neat completeness of the pretty waiters there;
                        The touch on the piano in the parlor, and the trill
                        Of the exquisite soprano, in our fancy singing still;
                        Our cozy room, its comfort, and our thousand grateful tho'ts,
                        And at our door the gentle face
                        Of
                        H.
                        Y.
                        Potts!
                    
                    
                        His artless observations, and his drollery of style,
                        Bewildered with that sorrowful serenity of smile
                        The eye's elusive twinkle, and the twitching of the lid,
                        Like he didn't go to say it and was sorry that he did.
                        O Artemus of Michigan! so worthy of the name,
                        Our manager indorses it, and Bill Nye does the same
                        You tickled our affection in so many tender spots
                        That even Recollection laughs
                        At
                        H.
                        Y.
                        Potts!
                    
                    
                    
                        And hark ye! O Grand Haven! count your rare attractions o'er
                        The commerce of your ships at sea, and ships along the shore;
                        Your railroads, and your industries, and interests untold,
                        Your Opera Houseour lecture, and the gate-receipts in gold!
                        Ay, Banner Town of Michigan! count all your treasures through
                        Your crowds of summer tourists, and your Sanitarium, too;
                        Your lake, your beach, your drives, your breezy groves and grassy
                            plots,
                        But head the list of all of these
                        With
                        H.
                        Y.
                        Potts!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE HOODOO.
                    
                        
                            OWNED a pair o' skates onc't.Traded
                        Fer 'em,stropped 'em on and waded
                        Up and down the crick, a-waitin'
                        Tel she 'd freeze up fit fer skatin'.
                        Mildest winter I remember
                        More like Spring- than Winter-weather!
                        Did n't frost tel bout December
                        Git up airly ketch a feather
                        Of it, mayby, 'crost the winder
                        Sunshine swinge it like a cinder!
                    
                    
                        WellI waitedand kep' waitin'!
                        Could n't see my money's w'oth in
                        Them-air skates and was no skatin'
                        Ner no hint o' ice ner nothin'!
                        So, one dayalong in airly
                        SpringI swopped 'em offand barely
                        Closed the dicker, 'fore the weather
                        Natchurly jes slipped the ratchet,
                        And cricktail-raceall together,
                        Froze so tight cat couldn't scratch it!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE RIVALS; OR THE SHOWMAN'S RUSE
                    A TRAGI-COMEDY, IN ONE ACT.
                    
                        PERSONS REPRESENTED.
                        BILLY MILLER
                        
                        JOHNNY WILLIAMS The Rivals
                        TOMMY WELLS Conspirator
                    
                    TIMENoon: SCENECountry TownRear view of the Miller Mansion, showing
                            Barn, with practical loft-window opening on alley-way, with
                            colored-crayon poster beneath, announcing:"BILLY
                            MILLER'S Big Show and Monstur Circus and Equareum! A
                        shour-bath fer Each and All fer 20 pins. This Afternoon! Don't fer git the
                        date!" Enter TOMMY WELLS
                        and JOHNNY WILLIAMS,
                            who gaze awhile at poster, TOMMY
                        secretly smiling and winking at BILLY
                            MILLER, concealed at loft-window
                        above.
                    
                    
                        TOMMY
                        
                        (to JOHNNY).
                        
                            Guess 'at Billy haint got back,
                            Can't see nothin' through the crack
                            Can't hear nothin' neitherNo!
                            . . . Thinks he's got the dandy show, Don't he?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        JOHNNY
                        
                        (scornfully)
                        
                            'Course! but what I care?
                            He haint got no show in there!
                            What's he got in there but that
                            Old hen, cooped up with a cat
                            An' a turkle, an' that thing
                            'At he calls his "circus-ring?"
                            "What a circus-ring!" I'd quit!
                            
                            Bet mine's twic't as big as it!
                        
                    
                    
                        TOMMY
                        
                        
                            Yes, but you got no machine
                            Wat you bathe with, painted green,
                            With a string to work it, guess!
                        
                    
                    
                        JOHNNY
                        
                        (contemptuously)
                        
                            Folks don't bathe in circuses!
                            
                                Ladies comes to mine, you bet!
                            I' got seats where girls can set;
                            An' a dressin'-room, an' all,
                            Fixed up in my pony's stall
                            Yes, an' I' got carpet, too,
                            Fer the tumblers, and a blue
                            Center-pole!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        TOMMY
                        
                        
                            Well, Billy, he's
                            Got a tight-rope an' trapeze,
                            An' a hoop 'at he jumps through
                            Head-first!
                        
                    
                    
                        JOHNNY
                        
                        
                            Well, what's that to do
                            Lightin' on a pile o' hay?
                            Haint no actin' thataway!
                        
                    
                    
                        TOMMY
                        
                        
                            Don't care what you say, he draws
                            Bigger crowds than you do, 'cause
                            Sense he started up, I know
                            All the fellers says his show
                            Is the best-un!
                        
                    
                    
                        JOHNNY
                        
                        
                            Yes, an' he
                            Better not tell things on me!
                            His old circus haint no good!
                            'Cause he's got the neighberhood
                            Down on me he thinks 'at I'm
                            Goin' to stand it all the time;
                            Thinks ist 'cause my Pa don't 'low
                            Me to fight, he's got me now,
                            
                            An' can say I lie, an' call
                            Me ist anything at all!
                            Billy Miller thinks I am
                            'Feared to say 'at he says "dam"
                            Yes, and worser ones! and I'm
                            Goin' to tell his folks sometime!
                            An' ef he don't shet his head
                            I'll tell worse 'an that he said
                            When he fighted Willie King
                            An' got licked like ever'thing!
                            Billy Miller better shin
                            Down his Daddy's lane agin,
                            Like a cowardy-calf, an' climb
                            In fer home another time!
                            Better
                        
                    
                    [Here BILLY
                        leaps down from the loft upon his unsuspecting victim; and two
                            minutes later, JOHNNY, with the
                            half of a straw hat, a bleeding nose, and a straight rent across one
                            trouser-knee, makes his ingloriousexit.]
                
                
                
                    WHAT CHRIS'MAS FETCHED THE WIGGINSES.
                    
                        
                            WINTERTIME, er Summertime,
                        Of late years I notice I'm,
                        Kindo'-like, more subjec' to
                        What the weather is. Now, you
                        Folks 'at lives in town, I s'pose,
                        Thinks its bully when it snows;
                        But the chap 'at chops and hauls
                        Yer wood fer ye, and then stalls,
                        And snapps tuggs and swingletrees,
                        And then has to walk er freeze,
                        Haint so much "stuck on" the snow
                        As stuck in itBless ye, no!
                        When its packed, and sleighin's good,
                        And church in the neighberhood,
                        Them 'at's got their girls, I guess,
                        Takes 'em, likely, more er less.
                        Tell the plain facts o' the case,
                        No men-folks about our place
                        On'y me and Papand he
                        'Lows 'at young folks' company
                        
                        Allus made him sick! So I
                        Jes don't want, and jes don't try!
                        Chinkypin, the dad-burn town,
                        'S too fur off to loaf aroun'
                        Either day er nightand no
                        Law compellin' me to go!
                        'Less 'n some Old-Settlers' Day,
                        Er big-doin's thataway
                        
                            Then, to tell the p'inted fac',
                        I've went more so's to come back
                        By old Guthrie's 'still-house, where
                        Minors has got licker there
                        That's pervidin' we could show 'em
                        Old folks sent fer it from home!
                        Visit roun' the neighbers some,
                        When the boys wants me to come.
                        Coon-hunt with 'em; er set traps
                        Fer mussrats; er jes, perhaps,
                        Lay in roun' the stove, you know,
                        And parch corn, and let her snow!
                        Mostly, nights like these, you'll be
                        (Ef you' got a writ fer me)
                        Ap' to skeer me up, I guess,
                        In about the Wigginses.
                        Nothin' roun' our place to keep
                        Me at homewith Pap asleep
                        
                        'Fore it's dark; and Mother in
                        Mango pickles to her chin;
                        And the girls, all still as death,
                        Piecin' quilts.Sence I drawed breath
                        Twenty year' ago, and heerd
                        Some girls whispern' so's it 'peared
                        Like they had a row o' pins
                        In their mouthright there begins
                        My first rickollections, built
                        On that-air blame old piece-quilt!
                    
                    
                        Summertime, it's jes the same
                        'Cause I've noticed,and I claim.
                        As I said afore, I'm more
                        Subjec' to the weather, shore,
                        'Proachin' my majority,
                        Than I ever ust to be!
                        Callin' back last Summer, say,
                        Don't seem hardly past away
                        With night closin' in, and all
                        S' lonesome-like in the dew-fall:
                        Batsad-drat their ugly muggs!
                        Flickern' by; and lightnin'-bugs
                        Huckstern' roun' the airly night
                        Little sickly gasps o' light;
                        Whip-poor-wills, like all possess'd,
                        Moanin' out their mournfullest;
                        
                        Frogs and katydids and things
                        Jes clubs in and sings and sings
                        Their ding-dangdest!Stock's all fed,
                        And Pap's washed his feet fer bed;
                        Mother and the girls all down
                        At the milk-shed, foolin' roun'
                        No wunder 'at I git blue,
                        And lite outand so would you!
                        I caint stay aroun' no place
                        Whur they haint no livin' face:
                        'Crost the fields and thue the gaps
                        Of the hills they's friends, perhaps,
                        Waitin' somers, 'at kin be
                        Kindo' comfertin' to me!
                    
                    
                        Neighbers all is plenty good,
                        Scattered thue this neighberhood;
                        Yit, of all, I like to jes
                        Drap in on the Wigginses.
                        Old man, and old lady too,
                        'Pear-like, makes so much o' you
                        Least, they 've allus pampered me
                        Like one of the fambily.
                        The boys, too, 's all thataway
                        Want you jes to come and stay;
                        Price, and Chape, and Mandaville,
                        Poke, Chasteen, and "Catfish Bill"
                        
                        Poke's the runt of all the rest,
                        But he's jes the beatinest
                        Little schemer, fer fourteen,
                        Anybody ever seen!
                        "Like his namesake," old man claims,
                        "Jeems K. Poke, the first o' names!
                        Full o' tricks and jokesand you
                        Never know what Poke's go' do!"
                        
                            Genius, too, that-air boy is,
                        With them awk'ard hands o' his:
                        Gits this blame pokeberry-juice,
                        Er some stuff, fer inkand goose-
                        Quill pen-p'ints: And then he'll draw
                        Dogdest pictures yevver saw!
                        Er make deers and eagles good
                        As a writin'-teacher could!
                        Then they's two twin boys they've riz
                        Of old Coonrod Wigginses
                        'At's deceastand glad of it,
                        'Cause his widder's livin' yit!
                    
                    
                        Course the boys is mostly jes'
                        Why I go to Wigginses.
                        Though Melviney, sometimes, she
                        
                        Gits her slate and algebry
                        And jes' sets there ciphern' thue
                        Sums old Ray hisse'f caint do!
                        
                        Jes' sets there, and tilts her chair
                        Forreds tel, 'pear-like, her hair
                        Jes' spills in her lapand then
                        She jes' dips it up again
                        With her hands, as white, I swan,
                        As the apern she's got on!
                    
                    
                        Talk o' hospitality!
                        Go to Wigginses with me
                        Overhet, or froze plum thue,
                        You'll find welcome waitin' you:
                        Th'ow out yer tobacker 'fore
                        You set foot acrost that floor,
                        "Got to eat whatever's set
                        Got to drink whatever's wet!"
                        Old man's sentimunsthem's his
                        And means jes the best they is!
                        Then he lights his pipe; and she,
                        The old lady, presen'ly
                        She lights her'n; and Chape and Poke.
                        I haint got none, ner don't smoke,
                        (In the crick afore their door
                        Sorto so's 'at I'd shore
                        Drownded mine one night and says
                        "I won't smoke at Wigginses!")
                        Price he's mostly talkin' 'bout
                        Politics, and "thieves turned out"
                        
                        What he's go' to be, ef he
                        Ever "gits there"and "we'll see!"
                        Poke he 'lows they's blame few men
                        Go' to hold their breath tel then!
                        Then Melviney smiles, as she
                        Goes on with her algebry,
                        And the clouds clear, and the room's
                        Sweeter 'n crabapple-blooms!
                        (That Melviney, she' got some
                        Most surprisin' ways, I gum!
                        Don't 'pear like she ever says
                        
                        Nothin', yit you'll listen jes
                        Like she was a-talkin', and
                        Half-way seem to understand,
                        But not quite,Poke does, I know,
                        'Cause he good as told me so,
                        Poke's her favo-rite; and he
                        That is, confidentially
                        He's my favo-riteand I
                        Got my whurfore and my why!)
                    
                    
                        I haint never ben no hand
                        Much at talkin', understand,
                        But they's thoughts o' mine 'at's jes
                        Jealous o' them Wigginses!
                        Gift o' talkin's what they' got,
                        Whether they want to er not.
                        
                        F'r instunce, start the old man on
                        Huntin'-scrapes, 'fore game was gone,
                        'Way back in the Forties, when
                        Bears stold pigs right out the pen,
                        Er went waltzin' 'crost the farm
                        With a bee-hive on their arm!
                        Andsir, ping! the old man's gun
                        Has plumped over many a one,
                        Firin' at him from afore
                        That-air very cabin-door!
                        Yesand painters, prowlin' 'bout,
                        Allus darkest nights.Lay out
                        Clost yer cattle.Great, big red
                        Eyes a-blazin' in their head,
                        Glittern' 'long the timber-line
                        Shine out some, and then un-shine,
                        And shine backThen, stiddy! whizz!
                        'N there yer Mr. Painter is
                        With a hole bored spang between
                        Them-air eyes! Er start Chasteen,
                        Say, on blooded racin'-stock,
                        Ef you want to hear him talk;
                        Er tobackerhow to raise,
                        Store, and k-yore it, so's she pays:
                        The old ladyand she'll cote
                        Scriptur' tel she'll git yer vote!
                        
                        Prove to you 'at wrong is right,
                        Jes as plain as black is white:
                        Prove when you're asleep in bed
                        You're a-standin' on yer head,
                        And yer train 'at's goin' West,
                        'S goin' East its level best;
                        And when bees dies, it's their wings
                        Wears outand a thousand things!
                        And the boys is "chips," you know,
                        "Off the old block" So I go
                        To the Wigginses, 'causejes
                        'Cause I like the Wigginses
                        Even ef Melviney she
                        
                        Hardly 'pears to notice me!
                    
                    
                        Rid to Chinkypin this week
                        Yisterd'y.No snow to speak
                        Of, and didn't have no sleigh
                        Anyhow; so, as I say,
                        I rid inand froze one ear
                        And both heelsand I don't keer!
                        "Mother and the girls kin jes
                        Bother 'bout their Chris'mases
                        
                            Next time fer theirse'vs, I jack!"
                        Thinks-says-I, a-startin' back,
                        Whole durn meal-bag full of things
                        Wropped in paper-sacks, and strings
                        
                        Liable to snap their holt
                        Jes at any little jolt!
                        That in front o' me, and wind
                        
                        With nicks in it, 'at jes skinned
                        Me alive!I'm here to say
                        Nine mile' hossback thataway
                        Would a-walked my log! But, as
                        Somepin' allus comes to pass,
                        As I topped old Guthrie's hill,
                        Saw a buggy, front the 'Still,
                        P'inted home'ards, and a thin
                        Little chap jes climbin' in.
                        Six more minutes I were there
                        On the groun's!And course it were
                        It were little Pokeand he
                        Nearly fainted to see me!
                        "You ben in to Chinky, too?"
                        "Yes; and go' ride back with you,"
                        I-says-I. He he'pped me find
                        Room fer my things in behind
                        Stript my hoss's reins down, and
                        Put his mitt' on the right hand
                        So's lead"Pile in!" says he,
                        "But you've struck pore company!"
                        Noticed he was palelooked sick,
                        Kindo-like, and had a quick
                        
                        Way o' flickin' them-air eyes
                        O' his roun' 'at didn't size
                        Up right with his usual style
                        S' I, "You well?" He tried to smile,
                        But his chin shuck and tears come.
                        "I've run 'Viney 'way from home!"
                    
                    
                        Don't know jes what all occurred
                        Next ten secondsNary word,
                        But my heart jes drapt, stobbed thue,
                        And whirlt over and come to.
                        Wrenched a big quart bottle from
                        That fool-boy!and cut my thumb
                        On his little fiste-teethhelt
                        Him snug in one arm, and felt
                        That-air little heart o' his
                        Churn the blood o' Wigginses
                        Into that old bead 'at spun
                        Roun' her, spilt at Lexington!
                        His k'niptions, like enough,
                        He'pped us both,though it was rough
                        Rough on him, and rougher on
                        Me when last his nerve was gone,
                        And he laid there still, his face
                        Fishin' fer some hidin'-place
                        Jes a leetle lower down
                        In my breast than he'd yit foun'!
                        
                        Last I kindo' soothed him, so's
                        He could talk.And what you s'pose
                        Them-air revelations of
                        Poke's was? . . . He'd ben writin' love-
                        Letters to Melviney, and
                        Givin her to understand
                        They was from "a young man who
                        Loved her," and"the violet's blue
                        'N sugar's sweet"and Lord knows what!
                        Tel, 'peared-like, Melviney got
                        S' interested in "the young
                        Man," Poke he says, 'at she brung
                        A' answer one't fer him to take,
                        Statin' "she'd die fer his sake,"
                        And writ fifty xs "fer
                        Love-kisses fer him from her!"
                        I was standin' in the road
                        By the buggy, all I knowed
                        When Poke got that fer."That's why,"
                        Poke says, "I 'fessed up the lie
                        
                            Had to'cause I see," says he,
                        "'Viney was in airnestshe
                        
                            Cried, too, when I told her.Then
                        She swore me, and smiled again,
                        And got Pap and Mother to
                        Let me hitch and drive her thue
                    
                    
                    
                        Into Chinkypin, to be
                        At Aunt 'Rindy's Chris'mas-tree
                        That's to-night." Says I, "Pokedurn
                        Your lyin' soul!'s that beau o' hern
                        ThatshelovesDoes he live in
                        That hellhole o' Chinkypin?"
                        "No," says Poke, "er 'Viney would
                        Went some other neighberhood."
                        "Who is the blame whelp?" says I.
                        "Promised 'Viney, hope I'd die
                        Ef I ever told!" says Poke,
                        Pittiful and jes heart-broke
                        "'Sides that's why she left the place,
                        'She caint look him in the face
                        Now no more on earth!' she says."
                        And the child broke down and jes
                        Sobbed! Says I, "Poke, I p'tend
                        T' be your friend, and your Pap's friend,
                        And your Mother's friend, and all
                        The boys' friend, little, large and small
                        The whole fambily's friendand you
                        Know that means Melviney, too.
                        Nowyou hush yer troublin'!I'm
                        Go' to he'p friends ever' time
                        On'y in this case, you got
                        To he'p meand, like as not
                        
                        I kin he'p Melviney then,
                        And we'll have her home again.
                        And now, Poke, with your consent,
                        I'm go' to that-air gent
                        She's in love with, and confer
                        With him on his views o' her.
                        
                        Blast him! give the man some show.
                        Who is he?I'm go' to know!"
                        Somepin' struck the little chap
                        Funny, 'peared-like.Give a slap
                        On his leglaughed thue the dew
                        In his eyes, and says: "It's you!"
                    
                    
                        Yes, and'cordin' to the last
                        Love-letters of ours 'at passed
                        Thue his handswe was to be
                        Married Chris'mas."Gee-mun-nee!
                        
                        Poke," says I, "it's suddentyit
                        We kin make it! You're to git
                        Up tomorry, say, 'bout three
                        
                        Tell your folks you're go' with me:
                        We'll hitch up, and jes drive in
                        'N take the town o' Chinkypin!"
                    
                
                
                
                    GO, WINTER!
                    
                        
                            GO, Winter! Go thy ways! We want again
                        The twitter of the bluebird and the wren;
                        Leaves ever greener growing, and the shine
                        Of Summer's sunnot thine.
                    
                    
                        Thy sun, which mocks our need of warmth and love
                        And all the heartening fervencies thereof,
                        It scarce hath heat enow to warm our thin
                        Pathetic yearnings in.
                    
                    
                        So get thee from us! We are cold, God wot,
                        Even as thou art.We remember not
                        How blithe we hailed thy coming.That was O
                        Too longtoo long ago!
                    
                    
                        Get from us utterly! Ho! Summer then
                        Shall spread her grasses where thy snows have been,
                        And thy last icy footprint melt and mold
                        In her first marigold.
                    
                
                
                
                    ELIZABETH.
                    May 1, 1891.
                    
                        I.
                        
                            ELIZABETH! Elizabeth!
                        The first May-morning whispereth
                        Thy gentle name in every breeze
                        That lispeth through the young-leaved trees,
                        New raimented in white and green
                        Of bloom and leaf to crown thee queen;
                        And, as in odorous chorus, all
                        The orchard-blossoms sweetly call
                        Even as a singing voice that saith
                        Elizabeth! Elizabeth!
                    
                    
                        II.
                        Elizabeth! Lo, lily-fair,
                        In deep, cool shadows of thy hair,
                        Thy face maintaineth its repose.
                        Is it, O sister of the rose,
                        So better, sweeter, blooming thus
                        Than in this briery world with us?
                        Where frost o'ertaketh, and the breath
                        Of biting winter harrieth
                        With sleeted rains and blighting snows
                        All fairest bloomsElizabeth!
                    
                    
                    
                        III.
                        Nay, then!So reign, Elizabeth,
                        Crowned, in thy May-day realm of death!
                        Put forth the scepter of thy love
                        In every star-tipped blossom of
                        The grassy dais of thy throne!
                        Sadder are we, that left alone,
                        But gladder they that thrill to see
                        Thy mother's rapture, greeting thee.
                        Bereaved are we by lifenot death
                        Elizabeth! Elizabeth!
                    
                
                
                
                    SLEEP.
                    
                        
                            ORPHANED, I cry to thee:
                        Sweet sleep! O kneel and be
                        A mother unto me!
                        Calm thou my childish fears:
                        Foldfold mine eyelids to, all tenderly,
                        And dry my tears.
                    
                    
                        Come, Sleep, all drowsy-eyed
                        And faint with languor,slide
                        Thy dim face down beside
                        Mine own, and let me rest
                        And nestle in thy heart, and there abide,
                        A favored guest.
                    
                    
                        Good night to every care,
                        And shadow of despair!
                        Good night to all things where
                        Within is no delight!
                        Sleep opens her dark arms, and, swooning there,
                        I sob: Good nightgood night!
                    
                
                
                
                    DAN PAINE.
                    
                        
                            OLD friend of mine, whose chiming name
                        Has been the burthen of a rhyme
                        Within my heart since first I came
                        To know thee in thy mellow prime:
                        With warm emotions in my breast
                        That can but coldly be expressed,
                        And hopes and wishes wild and vain,
                        I reach my hand to thee, Dan Paine.
                    
                    
                        In fancy, as I sit alone
                        In gloomy fellowship with care,
                        I hear again thy cheery tone,
                        And wheel for thee an easy chair;
                        And from my hand the pencil falls
                        My book upon the carpet sprawls,
                        As eager soul and heart and brain,
                        Leap up to welcome thee, Dan Paine.
                    
                    
                        A something gentle in thy mein,
                        A something tender in thy voice,
                        Has made my trouble so serene,
                        I can but weep, from very choice.
                        And even then my tears, I guess,
                        Hold more of sweet than bitterness,
                        And more of gleaming shine than rain,
                        Because of thy bright smile Dan Paine.
                    
                    
                    
                        The wrinkless that the years have spun
                        And tangled round thy tawny face,
                        Are kinked with laughter, every one,
                        And fashioned in a mirthful grace.
                        And though the twinkle of thine eyes
                        Is keen as frost when Summer dies,
                        It can not long as frost remain
                        While thy warm soul shines out, Dan Paine.
                    
                    
                        And so I drain a health to thee:
                        May merry Joy and jolly Mirth
                        Like children clamber on thy knee,
                        And ride thee round the happy earth!
                        And when, at last, the hand of Fate
                        Shall lift the latch of Canaan's gate,
                        And usher me in thy domain,
                        Smile on me just as now, Dan Paine.
                    
                
                
                
                    OLD WINTERS ON THE FARM
                    
                        
                            I HAVE jest about decided
                        It 'ud keep a town-boy hoppin'
                        Fer to work all winter, choppin'
                        Fer a' old fire-place, like I did!
                        Lawz! them old times wuz contrairy!
                        Blame backbone o' winter, 'peared-like,
                        
                            Wouldn't break! and I wuz skeerd-like
                        Clean on into Febuary!
                        Nothin' ever made we madder
                        Than fer Pap to stomp in, layin'
                        On a' extra fore-stick, sayin'
                        "Groun'hog's out and seed his shadder!"
                    
                
                
                
                    AT UTTER LOAF.
                    
                        I.
                        
                            AN afternoon as ripe with heat
                        As might the golden pippin be
                        With mellowness if at my feet
                        It dropped now from the apple-tree
                        My hammock swings in lazily.
                    
                    
                        II.
                        The boughs about me spread a shade
                        That shields me from the sun, but weaves
                        With breezy shuttles through the leaves
                        Blue rifts of skies, to gleam and fade
                        Upon the eyes that only see
                        Just of themselves, all drowsily.
                    
                    
                        III.
                        Above me drifts the fallen skein
                        Of some tired spider, looped and blown,
                        As fragile as a strand of rain,
                        Across the air, and upward thrown
                        By breaths of hayfields newly mown
                        So glimmering it is and fine,
                        I doubt these drowsy eyes of mine.
                    
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        Far-off and faint as voices pent
                        In mines, and heard from underground,
                        Come murmurs as of discontent,
                        And clamorings of sullen sound
                        The city sends me, as, I guess,
                        To vex me, though they do but bless
                        Me in my drowsy fastnesses.
                    
                    
                        V.
                        I have no care. I only know
                        My hammock hides and holds me here
                        In lands of shade a prisoner:
                        While lazily the breezes blow
                        Light leaves of sunshine over me,
                        And back and forth and to and fro
                        I swing, enwrapped in some hushed glee,
                        Smiling at all things drowsily.
                    
                
                
                
                    A LOUNGER.
                    
                        
                            HE leant against a lamp-post, lost
                        In some mysterious reverie:
                        His head was bowed; his arms were crossed;
                        He yawned, and glanced evasively:
                        Uncrossed his arms, and slowly put
                        Them back again, and scratched his side
                        Shifted his weight from foot to foot,
                        And gazed out no-ward, idle-eyed.
                    
                    
                        Grotesque of form and face and dress,
                        And picturesque in every way
                        A figure that from day to day
                        Drooped with a limper laziness;
                        A figure such as artists lean,
                        In pictures where distress is seen,
                        Against low hovels where we guess
                        No happiness has ever been.
                    
                
                
                
                    A SONG OF LONG AGO.
                    
                        
                            A SONG of Long Ago:
                        Sing it lightlysing it low
                        Sing it softlylike the lisping of the lips we used to know
                        When our baby-laughter spilled
                        From the glad hearts ever filled
                        With music blithe as robin ever trilled!
                    
                    
                        Let the fragrant summer-breeze,
                        And the leaves of locust-trees,
                        And the apple-buds and blossoms, and the wings of honey-bees,
                        All palpitate with glee,
                        Till the happy harmony
                        Brings back each childish joy to you and me.
                    
                    
                        Let the eyes of fancy turn
                        Where the tumbled pippins burn
                        Like embers in the orchard's lap of tangled grass and fern,
                        There let the old path wind
                        In and out and on behind
                        The cider-press that chuckles as we grind.
                    
                    
                    
                        Blend in the song the moan
                        Of the dove that grieves alone,
                        And the wild whir of the locust, and the bumble's drowsy drone;
                        And the low of cows that call
                        Through the pasture-bars when all
                        The landscape fades away at evenfall.
                    
                    
                        Then, far away and clear,
                        Through the dusky atmosphere,
                        Let the wailing of the kildee be the only sound we hear:
                        O sad and sweet and low
                        As the memory may know
                        Is the glad-pathetic song of Long Ago!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE CHANT OF THE CROSS-BEARING CHILD.
                    
                        
                            I BEAR dis cross dis many a mile.
                        O de cross-bearin' chile
                        De cross-bearin' chile!
                    
                    
                        I bear dis cross 'long many a road
                        Wha' de pink ain't bloom' an' de grass done mowed.
                        O de cross-bearin' chile
                        De cross-bearin' chile!
                    
                    
                        Hits on my conscience all dese days
                        Fo' ter bear de cross ut de good Lord lays
                        On my po' soul, an' ter lif' my praise.
                        O de cross-bearin' chile
                        De cross-bearin' chile!
                    
                    
                        I's nigh-'bout weak ez I mos' kin be,
                        Yit de Marstah call an' He say,"You's free
                        Fo' ter 'cept dis cross, an' ter cringe yo' knee
                        To no n'er man in de worl' but me!"
                        O de cross-bearin' chile
                        De cross-bearin' chile!
                    
                    
                    
                        Says you guess wrong, ef I let you guess
                        Says you 'spec' mo', an'-a you git less:
                        Says you go eas', says you go wes',
                        An' whense you fine de road ut you like bes'
                        You betteh take ch'ice er any er de res'!
                        O de cross-bearin' chile
                        De cross-bearin' chile!
                    
                    
                        He build my feet, an' He fix de signs
                        Dat de shoe hit pinch an' de shoe hit bines
                        Ef I on'y w'ah eights an-a wanter w'ah nines;
                        I hone fo' de rain, an' de sun hit shines,
                        An' whilse I hunt de sun, hits de rain I fines.
                        O-a trim my lamp, an-a gyrd my lines!
                        O de cross-bearin' chile
                        De cross-bearin' chile!
                    
                    
                        I wade de wet, an' I walk de dry:
                        I done tromp long, an' I done clim high;
                        An' I pilgrim on ter de jasper sky,
                        An' I taken de resk fo' ter cas' my eye
                        Wha' de Gate swing wide an' de Lord draw nigh,
                        An' de Trump hit blow, an' I hear de cry,
                        "You lay dat cross down by an' by!
                        O de Cross-bearin' Chile
                        De Cross-bearin' Chile!"
                    
                
                
                
                    THANKSGIVING.
                    
                        
                            LET us be thankfulnot only because
                        Since last our universal thanks were told
                        We have grown greater in the world's applause,
                        And fortune's newer smiles surpass the old
                    
                    
                        But thankful for all things that come as alms
                        From out the open hand of Providence:
                        The winter clouds and stormsthe summer calms
                        The sleepless dreadthe drowse of indolence.
                    
                    
                        Let us be thankfulthankful for the prayers
                        Whose gracious answers were long, long delayed,
                        That they might fall upon us unawares,
                        And bless us, as in greater need, we prayed.
                    
                    
                        Let us be thankful for the loyal hand
                        That love held out in welcome to our own,
                        When love and only love could understand
                        The need of touches we had never known.
                    
                    
                        Let us be thankful for the longing eyes
                        That gave their secret to us as they wept,
                        Yet in return found, with a sweet surprise,
                        Love's touch upon their lids, and, smiling, slept.
                    
                    
                    
                        And let us, too, be thankful that the tears
                        Of sorrow have not all been drained away,
                        That through them still, for all the coming years,
                        We may look on the dead face of To-day.
                    
                
                
                
                    AUTUMN.
                    
                        
                            AS a harvester, at dusk,
                        Faring down some woody trail
                        Leading homeward through the musk
                        Of may-apple and pawpaw,
                        Hazel-bush, and spice and haw,
                        So comes Autumn, swart and hale,
                        Drooped of frame and slow of stride,
                        But withal an air of pride
                        Looming up in stature far
                        Higher than his shoulders are;
                        Weary both in arm and limb,
                        Yet the wholesome heart of him
                        Sheer at rest and satisfied.
                    
                    
                        Greet him as with glee of drums
                        And glad cymbals, as he comes!
                        Robe him fair, O Rain and Shine!
                        He the Emperorthe King
                        Royal lord of everything
                        Sagging Plenty's granary floors
                        And out-bulging all her doors;
                        He the god of corn and wine,
                        Honey, milk, and fruit and oil
                        Lord of feast, as lord of toil
                        Jocund host of yours and mine!
                    
                    
                    
                        Ho! the revel of his laugh!
                        Half is sound of winds, and half
                        Roar of ruddy blazes drawn
                        Up the throats of chimneys wide,
                        Circling which, from side to side,
                        Faceslit as by the Dawn,
                        With her highest tintings on
                        Tip of nose, and cheek, and chin
                        Smile at some old fairy-tale
                        Of enchanted lovers, in
                        Silken gown and coat of mail,
                        With a retinue of elves
                        Merry as their very selves,
                        Trooping ever, hand in hand,
                        Down the dales of Wonderland.
                    
                    
                        Then the glory of his song!
                        Lifting up his dreamy eyes
                        Singing haze across the skies;
                        Singing clouds that trail along
                        Towering tops of trees that seize
                        Tufts of them to stanch the breeze;
                        Singing slanted strands of rain
                        In between the sky and earth,
                        For the lyre to mate the mirth
                    
                    
                    
                        And the might of his refrain:
                        Singing southward-flying birds
                        Down to us, and afterwards
                        Singing them to flight again;
                        Singing blushes to the cheeks
                        Of the leaves upon the trees
                        Singing on and changing these
                        Into pallor, slowly wrought,
                        Till the little, moaning creeks
                        Bear them to their last farewell,
                        As Elaine, the lovable,
                        Was borne down to Lancelot.
                        Singing drip of tears, and then
                        Drying them with smiles again.
                    
                    
                        Singing apple, peach and grape,
                        Into roundest, plumpest shape;
                        Rosy ripeness to the face
                        Of the pippin; and the grace
                        Of the dainty stamin-tip
                        To the huge bulk of the pear,
                        Pendant in the green caress
                        Of the leaves, and glowing through
                        With the tawny laziness
                        Of the gold that Ophir knew,
                        Haply, too, within its rind
                        Such a cleft as bees may find,
                        
                        Bungling on it half aware,
                        And wherein to see them sip
                        Fancy lifts an oozy lip,
                        And the singer's falter there
                    
                    
                        Sweet as swallows swimming through
                        Eddyings of dusk and dew,
                        Singing happy scenes of home
                        Back to sight of eager eyes
                        That have longed for them to come,
                        Till their coming is surprise
                        Uttered only by the rush
                        Of quick tears and prayerful hush:
                        Singing on, in clearer key,
                        Hearty palms of you and me
                        Into grasps that tingle still
                        Rapturous, and ever will!
                        Singing twank and twang of strings
                        Trill of flute and clarinet
                        In a melody that rings
                        Like the tunes we used to play,
                        And our dreams are playing yet!
                        Singing lovers, long astray,
                        Each to each; and, sweeter things,
                        Singing in their marriage-day,
                        And a banquet holding all
                        These delights for festival.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE TWINS.
                    
                        
                            ONE'S the pictur' of his Pa,
                        And the other of her Ma
                        Jes the bossest pair o' babies 'at a mortal ever saw!
                        And we love 'em as the bees
                        Loves the blossoms of the trees,
                        A-ridin' and a-rompin' in the breeze!
                    
                    
                        One's got her Mammy's eyes
                        Soft and blue as Apurl-skies
                        With the same sort of a smile, likeYes, and mouth
                            about her size,
                        Dimples, too, in cheek and chin,
                        'At my lips jes wallers in,
                        A-goin' to work, er gittin' home agin.
                    
                    
                        And the otherWell, they say
                        That he's got his Daddy's way
                        O' bein' ruther soberfied, er ruther extry gay,
                        That he either cries his best,
                        Er he laughs his howlin'est
                        Like all he lacked was buttons and a vest!
                    
                    
                    
                        Look at her!and look at him!
                        
                        Talk about yer "Cheru-bim!"
                        Roll 'em up in dreams together, rosy arm and chubby limb!
                        O we love 'em as the bees
                        Loves the blossoms of the trees,
                        A-ridin' and a-rompin' in the breeze!
                    
                
                
                
                    BEDOUIN.
                    
                        
                            O LOVE is like an untamed steed!
                        So hot of heart and wild of speed,
                        And with fierce freedom so in love,
                        The desert is not vast enough,
                        With all its leagues of glimmering sands,
                        To pasture it! Ah, that my hands
                        Were more than human in their strength,
                        That my deft lariat at length
                        Might safely noose this splendid thing
                        That so defies all conquering!
                        Ho! but to see it whirl and reel
                        The sands spurt forwardand to feel
                        The quivering tension of the thong
                        That throned me high, with shriek and song!
                        To grapple tufts of tossing mane
                        To spurn it to its feet again,
                        And then, sans saddle, rein or bit,
                        To lash the mad life out of it!
                    
                
                
                
                    TUGG MARTIN.
                    
                        I.
                        
                            TUGG Martin's tough.No doubt o' that!
                        And down there at
                        The town he come from word's bin sent
                        Advisin' this-here Settle-ment
                        To kindo' humor Tugg, and not
                        To git him hot.
                        Jest pass his imperfections by,
                        And he's as good as pie!
                    
                    
                        II.
                        They claim he's wanted back there.Yit
                        The officers they mostly quit
                        
                            Insistin' when
                        They notice Tugg's so back'ard, and
                        Sorto' gives 'em to understand
                        He druther not!A Deputy
                        (The slickest one you ever see!)
                        Tackled him last"disguisin' then,"
                        As Tugg says, "as a gentlemen!"
                        You'd ort o' hear Tugg tell it!My!
                        
                        I thought I'd die!
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        III.
                        The way it wuz:Tugg and the rest
                        The boys wuz jest
                        A-kindo' gittin' thawed out, down
                        At "Guss's Place," fur-end o' town,
                        One night, when, first we knowed,
                        Some feller rode
                        Up in a buggy at the door,
                        And hollered fer some one to come
                        And fetch him some
                        Red-licker outAnd whirped and swore
                        That colt he drove wuz "Thompson's" shore!
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        Guss went out, and come in agin
                        And filled a pint and tuck it out
                        Stayed quite a spellthen peeked back in,
                        Half-hid-like where the light wuz dim,
                        And jieuked his head
                        At Tugg and said,
                        "Come out a minutehere's a gent
                        Wants you to take a drink with him."
                    
                    
                    
                        V.
                        WellTugg laid down his cards and went
                        In fact, we all
                        
                        Got up, you know,
                        
                            Startin' to go
                        When in reels Guss aginst the wall,
                        As white as snow,
                        Gaspin',"He's tuck Tugg!Wher's my gun?"
                        And-sir, outside we heerd
                        The hoss snort and kick up his heels
                        Like he wuz skeerd,
                        And then the buggy-wheels
                        Scrapeand then Tugg's voice hollerun',
                        "I'm bested!Good-bye, fellers!" . .
                            . 'Peared
                        S' all-fired suddent,
                        Nobody couldn't
                        Jest git it fixed,tel hoss and man,
                        Buggy and Tugg, off through the dark
                        Went like the devil beatin' tan-Bark!
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        What could we do? . . . We filed back to
                        The bar: And Guss jest looked at us,
                        And we looked back "The same as you,"
                        
                        Still sayin' nothin'And the sap
                        It stood in every eye,
                        And every hat and cap
                        Went off, as we teched glasses solemnly,
                        And Guss says-he:
                        "Ef it's 'good-bye' with Tugg, fer shore,I say
                        God bless him!Er ef they
                        Aint railly no need to pray,
                        I'm not reniggin'board's the play,
                        And here's God bless him, anyway!"
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        It must a-bin an hour er so
                        We all set there,
                        Talkin o' pore
                        Old Tugg, you know,
                        'At never wuz ketched up before
                        Whenall slow-likethe door-
                        Knob turnedand Tugg come shamblin' in,
                        Hand-cuffed!'at's what he wuz, I swear!
                        Yit smilin,' like he hadn't bin
                        Away at all! And when we ast him where
                        The Deputy wuz at,"I don't know where," Tugg said,
                        "All I know ishe's dead."
                    
                
                
                
                    LET US FORGET.
                    
                        
                            LET us forget. What matters it that we
                        Once reigned o'er happy realms of long-ago,
                        And talked of love, and let our voices low,
                        And ruled for some brief sessions royally?
                        What if we sung, or laughed, or wept maybe?
                        It has availed not anything, and so
                        Let it go by that we may better know
                        How poor a thing is lost to you and me.
                        But yesterday I kissed your lips, and yet
                        Did thrill you not enough to shake the dew
                        From your drenched lidsand missed, with no regret,
                        Your kiss shot back, with sharp breaths failing you:
                        And so, to-day, while our worn eyes are wet
                        With all this waste of tears, let us forget!
                    
                
                
                
                    JOHN ALDEN AND PERCILLY.
                    
                        
                            WE got up a Christmas-doin's
                        Last Christmas Eve
                        Kindo' dimonstration
                        'At I railly believe
                        Give more satisfaction
                        Take it up and down
                        Than ary intertainment
                        Ever come to town!
                    
                    
                        Railly was a theater
                        
                        That's what it was,
                        But, bein' in the church, you know,
                        We had a "Santy Clause"
                        So's to git the old folks
                        
                        To patternize, you see,
                        And back the institootion up
                        Kindo' morally.
                        
                    
                    
                        Schoolteacher writ the thing
                        (Was a friend o' mine),
                        Got it out o' Longfeller's
                        Pome "Evangeline"
                        Er some'rs'bout the Purituns
                        
                        
                            Anyway, the part
                        "John Alden" fell to me
                        
                        And learnt it all by heart!
                    
                    
                    
                        Claircy was "Percilly"
                        (Schoolteacher 'lowed
                        Me and her could act them two
                        Best of all the crowd)
                        Thenblame ef he didn't
                        Git her Pap, i jing!
                        To take the part o' "Santy Clause,"
                        To wind up the thing.
                    
                    
                        Law! the fun o' practisun!
                        Was a week er two
                        Me and Claircy didn't have
                        Nothin' else to do!
                        Kep' us jes a-meetin' round,
                        Kindo' here and there,
                        Ever' night rehearsin'-like,
                        And gaddin' ever'where!
                    
                    
                        Game was wo'th the candle, though!
                        Christmas Eve at last
                        Rolled around.And 'tendance jes
                        Couldn't been su'passed!
                        Neighbers from the country
                        Come from Clay and Rush
                        Yes, and 'crost the county-line
                        Clean from Puckerbrush!
                    
                    
                    
                        Meetin'-house jes trimbled
                        As "Old Santy" went
                        Round amongst the children,
                        With their pepperment
                        And sassafrac and wintergreen
                        Candy, and "a ball
                        O' popcorn," the preacher 'nounced,
                        "Free fer each and all!"
                    
                    
                        Schoolteacher suddently
                        Whispered in my ear,
                        "Guess I got you:Christmas-gift!
                        
                        
                            Christmas is here!"
                        I give him a gold pen,
                        And case to hold the thing.
                        And Claircy whispered "Christmas-gift!"
                        And I give her a ring.
                        
                    
                    
                        "And now," says I, "jes watch me
                        
                        Christmas-gift," says I,
                        "I'm a-goin' to git one
                        'Santy's' comin' by!"
                        Then I rech and grabbed him:
                        And, as you'll infer,
                        'Course I got the old man's,
                        And he gimme her!
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    REACH YOUR HAND TO ME.
                    
                        
                            REACH your hand to me, my friend,
                        With its heartiest caress
                        Sometime there will come an end
                        To its present faithfulness
                        Sometime I may ask in vain
                        For the touch of it again,
                        When between us land or sea
                        Holds it ever back from me
                    
                    
                        Sometime I may need it so,
                        Groping somewhere in the night,
                        It will seem to me as though
                        Just a touch, however light,
                        Would make all the darkness day,
                        And along some sunny way
                        Lead me through an April-shower
                        Of my tears to this fair hour.
                    
                    
                        O the present is too sweet
                        To go on forever thus!
                        Round the corner of the street
                        Who can say what waits for us?
                        Meetinggreeting, night and day,
                        Faring each the self-same way
                        Still somewhere the path must end.
                        Reach your hand to me, my friend!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE ROSE.
                    
                        
                            IT tossed its head at the wooing breeze;
                        And the sun, like a bashful swain,
                        Beamed on it through the waving trees
                        With a passion all in vain,
                        For my rose laughed in a crimson glee,
                        And hid in the leaves in wait for me.
                    
                    
                        The honey-bee came there to sing
                        His love through the languid hours,
                        And vaunt of his hives, as a proud old king
                        Might boast of his palace-towers:
                        But my rose bowed in a mockery,
                        And hid in the leaves in wait for me.
                    
                    
                        The humming-bird, like a courtier gay,
                        Dipped down with a dalliant song,
                        And twanged his wings through the roundelay
                        Of love the whole day long:
                        Yet my rose turned from his minstrelsy
                        And hid in the leaves in wait for me.
                    
                    
                    
                        The firefly came in the twilight dim
                        My red, red rose to woo
                        Till quenched was the flame of love in him,
                        And the light of his lantern too,
                        As my rose wept with dewdrops three
                        And hid in the leaves in wait for me.
                    
                    
                        And I said: I will cull my own sweet rose
                        Some day I will claim as mine
                        The priceless worth of the flower that knows
                        No change, but a bloom divine
                        The bloom of a fadeless constancy
                        That hides in the leaves in wait for me!
                    
                    
                        But time passed by in a strange disguise,
                        And I marked it not, but lay
                        In a lazy dream, with drowsy eyes,
                        Till the summer slipped away,
                        And a chill wind sang in a minor key:
                        "Where is the rose that waits for thee?"
                    
                    
                        I dream to-day, o'er a purple stain
                        Of bloom on a withered stalk,
                        Pelted down by the autumn rain
                        In the dust of the garden-walk,
                        That an Angel-rose in the world to be
                        Will hide in the leaves in wait for me.
                    
                
                
                
                    MY FRIEND.
                    
                        
                            "HE is my friend," I said,
                        "Be patient!" Overhead
                        The skies were drear and dim;
                        And lo! the thought of him
                        Smiled on my heartand then
                        The sun shone out again!
                    
                    
                        "He is my friend!" The words
                        Brought summer and the birds;
                        And all my winter-time
                        Thawed into running rhyme
                        And rippled into song,
                        Warm, tender, brave, and strong.
                    
                    
                        And so it sings to-day.
                        So may it sing alway!
                        Though waving grasses grow
                        Between, and lilies blow
                        Their trills of perfume clear
                        As laughter to the ear,
                        Let each mute measure end
                        With "Still he is thy friend."
                    
                
                
                
                    SUSPENSE.
                    
                        
                            A WOMAN'S figure, on a ground of night
                        Inlaid with sallow stars that dimly stare
                        Down in the lonesome eyes, uplifted there
                        As in vague hope some alien lance of light
                        Might pierce their woe. The tears that blind her sight
                        The salt and bitter blood of her despair
                        Her hands toss back through torrents of her hair
                        And grip toward God with anguish infinite.
                        And O the carven mouth, with all its great
                        Intensity of longing frozen fast
                        In such a smile as well may designate
                        The slowly-murdered heart, that, to the last,
                        Conceals each newer wound, and back at Fate
                        Throbs Love's eternal lie"Lo, I can wait!"
                    
                
                
                
                    THE PASSING OF A HEART.
                    
                        
                            O TOUCH me with your hands
                        For pity's sake!
                        My brow throbs ever on with such an ache
                        As only your cool touch may take away;
                        And so, I pray
                        You, touch me with your hands!
                    
                    
                        Touchtouch me with your hands.
                        Smooth back the hair
                        You once caressed, and kissed, and called so fair
                        That I did dream its gold would wear alway,
                        And lo, to-day
                        O touch me with your hands!
                    
                    
                        Just touch me with your hands,
                        And let them press
                        My weary eyelids with the old caress,
                        And lull me till I sleep. Then go your way,
                        That Death may say:
                        He touched her with his hands.
                    
                
                
                
                    BY HER WHITE BED.
                    
                        
                            BY her white bed I muse a little space:
                        She fell asleepnot very long ago,
                        And yet the grass was here and not the snow
                        The leaf, the bud, the blossom, andher face!
                        Midsummer's heaven above us, and the grace
                        Of Love's own day, from dawn to afterglow;
                        The fireflies' glimmering, and the sweet and low
                        Plaint of the whip-poor-wills, and every place
                        In thicker twilight for the roses' scent.
                        Then night.She sleptin such tranquility,
                        I walk atiptoe still, nor dare to weep,
                        Feeling, in all this hush, she rests content
                        That though God stood to wake her for me, she
                        Would mutely plead: "Nay, Lord! Let him so
                            sleep."
                    
                
                
                
                    WE TO SIGH INSTEAD OF SING.
                    
                        
                            "RAIN and rain! and rain and rain!"
                        Yesterday we muttered
                        Grimly as the grim refrain
                        That the thunders uttered:
                        All the heavens under cloud
                        All the sunshine sleeping;
                        All the grasses limply bowed
                        With their weight of weeping.
                    
                    
                        Sigh and sigh! and sigh and sigh!
                        Never end of sighing;
                        Rain and rain for our reply
                        Hopes half-drowned and dying;
                        Peering through the window-pane,
                        Naught but endless raining
                        Endless sighing, and, as vain,
                        Endlessly complaining.
                    
                    
                        Shine and shine! and shine and shine!
                        Ah! to-day the splendor!
                        All this glory yours and mine
                        God! but God is tender!
                        We to sigh instead of sing,
                        
                            Yesterday, in sorrow,
                        While the Lord was fashioning
                        This for our To-morrow!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE BLOSSOMS ON THE TREES.
                    
                        
                            BLOSSOMS crimson, white, or blue,
                        Purple, pink, and every hue,
                        From sunny skies, to tintings drowned
                        In dusky drops of dew,
                        I praise you all, wherever found,
                        And love you through and through;
                        
                            But, Blossoms On The Trees,
                        With your breath upon the breeze,
                        There's nothing all the world around
                        As half as sweet as you!
                    
                    
                        Could the rhymer only wring
                        All the sweetness to the lees
                        Of all the kisses clustering
                        In juicy Used-to-bes,
                        To dip his rhymes therein and sing
                        The blossoms on the trees,
                        "O Blossoms on the Trees,"
                        He would twitter, trill and coo,
                        "However sweet, such songs as these
                        Are not as sweet as you:
                        For you are blooming melodies
                        The eyes may listen to!"
                    
                
                
                
                    A DISCOURAGING MODEL.
                    
                        
                            JUST the airiest, fairiest slip of a thing,
                        With a Gainsborough hat, like a butterfly's wing,
                        Tilted up at one side with the jauntiest air,
                        And a knot of red roses sown in under there
                        Where the shadows are lost in her hair.
                    
                    
                        Then a cameo face, carven in on a ground
                        Of that shadowy hair where the roses are wound;
                        And the gleam of a smile O as fair and as faint
                        And as sweet as the masters of old used to paint
                        Round the lips of their favorite saint!
                    
                    
                        And that lace at her throatand the fluttering hands
                        Snowing there, with a grace that no art understands,
                        The flakes of their touchesfirst fluttering at
                        The bowthen the rosesthe hairand then that
                        Little tilt of the Gainsborough hat.
                    
                    
                        O what artist on earth with a model like this,
                        Holding not on his palette the tint of a kiss,
                        Nor a pigment to hint of the hue of her hair,
                        Nor the gold of her smileO what artist could dare
                        To expect a result half so fair?
                    
                
                
                
                    LAST NIGHTAND THIS.
                    
                        
                            LAST nighthow deep the darkness was!
                        And well I knew its depths, because
                        I waded it from shore to shore,
                        Thinking to reach the light no more.
                    
                    
                        She would not even touch my hand.
                        The winds rose and the cedars fanned
                        The moon out, and the stars fled back
                        In heaven and hidand all was black!
                    
                    
                        But ah! To-night a summons came,
                        Signed with a teardrop for a name,
                        For as I wondering kissed it, lo,
                        A line beneath it told me so.
                    
                    
                        And nowthe moon hangs over me
                        A disk of dazzling brilliancy,
                        And every star-tip stabs my sight
                        With splintered glitterings of light!
                    
                
                
                
                    SEPTEMBER DARK.
                    
                        I.
                        
                            THE air falls chill;
                        The whip-poor-will
                        Pipes lonesomely behind the hill:
                        The dusk grows dense,
                        The silence tense;
                        And lo, the katydids commence.
                    
                    
                        II.
                        Through shadowy rifts
                        Of woodland, lifts
                        The low, slow moon, and upward drifts,
                        While left and right
                        The fireflies' light
                        Swirls eddying in the skirts of Night.
                    
                    
                        III.
                        O Cloudland, gray
                        And level, lay
                        Thy mists across the face of Day!
                        At foot and head,
                        Above the dead,
                        O Dews, weep on uncomforted!
                    
                
                
                
                    A GLIMPSE OF PAN.
                    
                        
                            I CAUGHT but a glimpse of him. Summer was here,
                        And I strayed from the town and its dust and heat,
                        And walked in a wood, while the noon was near,
                        Where the shadows were cool, and the atmosphere
                        Was misty with fragrances stirred by my feet
                        From surges of blossoms that billowed sheer
                        O'er the grasses, green and sweet.
                    
                    
                        And I peered through a vista of leaning trees,
                        Tressed with long tangles of vines that swept
                        To the face of a river, that answered these
                        With vines in the wave like the vines in the breeze,
                        Till the yearning lips of the ripples crept
                        And kissed them, with quavering ecstacies,
                        And gurgled and laughed and wept.
                    
                    
                        And there, like a dream in a swoon, I swear
                        I saw Pan lying,his limbs in the dew
                        And the shade, and his face in the dazzle and glare
                        Of the glad sunshine; while everywhere,
                        Over, across, and around him blew
                        Filmy dragonflies hither and there,
                        And little white butterflies, two and two,
                        In eddies of odorous air.
                    
                
                
                
                    OUT OF NAZARETH.
                    
                        
                            "HE shall sleep unscathed of thieves
                        Who loves Allah and believes."
                        Thus heard one who shared the tent,
                        In the far-off Orient,
                        Of the Bedouin ben Ahrzz
                        Nobler never loved the stars
                        Through the palm-leaves nigh the dim
                        Dawn his courser neighed to him!
                    
                    
                        He said: "Let the sands be swarmed
                        With such thieves as I, and thou
                        Shalt at morning rise, unharmed,
                        Light as eyelash to the brow
                        Of thy camel, amber-eyed,
                        Ever munching either side,
                        Striding still, with nestled knees,
                        Through the midnight's oases.
                    
                    
                        "Who can rob thee an thou hast
                        More than this that thou hast cast
                        At my feetthis dust of gold?
                        Simply this and that, all told!
                        Hast thou not a treasure of
                        Such a thing as men call love?
                    
                    
                    
                        "Can the dusky band I lead
                        Rob thee of thy daily need
                        Of a whiter soul, or steal
                        What thy lordly prayers reveal?
                        Who could be enriched of thee
                        By such hoard of poverty
                        As thy niggard hand pretends
                        To dole methy worst of friends?
                        Therefore shouldst thou pause to bless
                        One indeed who blesses thee:
                        Robbing thee, I dispossess
                        But myself.Pray thou for me!"
                    
                    
                        He shall sleep unscathed of thieves
                        Who loves Allah and believes.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE WANDERING JEW.
                    
                        
                            THE stars are failing, and the sky
                        Is like a field of faded flowers;
                        The winds on weary wings go by;
                        The moon hides, and the temptest lowers;
                        And still through every clime and age
                        I wander on a pilgrimage
                        That all men know an idle quest,
                        For that the goal I seek isREST!
                    
                    
                        I hear the voice of summer streams,
                        And, following, I find the brink
                        Of cooling springs, with childish dreams
                        Returning as I bend to drink
                        But suddenly, with startled eyes,
                        My face looks on its grim disguise
                        Of long gray beard; and so, distressed,
                        I hasten on, nor taste of rest.
                    
                    
                        I come upon a merry group
                        Of children in the dusky wood,
                        Who answer back the owlet's whoop,
                        That laughs as it had understood;
                        And I would pause a little space,
                        But that each happy blossom-face
                        Is like to one His hands have
                            blessed
                        Who sent me forth in search of rest.
                    
                    
                    
                        Sometimes I fain would stay my feet
                        In shady lanes, where huddled kine
                        Couch in the grasses cool and sweet,
                        And lift their patient eyes to mine;
                        But I, for thoughts that ever then
                        Go back to Bethlehem again,
                        Must needs fare on my weary quest,
                        And weep for very need of rest.
                    
                    
                        Is there no end? I plead in vain:
                        Lost worlds nor living answer me.
                        Since Pontius Pilate's awful reign
                        Have I not passed eternity?
                        Have I not drank the fetid breath
                        Of every fevered phase of death,
                        And come unscathed through every pest
                        And scourge and plague that promised rest?
                    
                    
                        Have I not seen the stars go out
                        That shed their light o'er Galilee,
                        And mighty kingdoms tossed about
                        And crumbled clod-like in the sea?
                        Dead ashes of dead ages blow
                        And cover me like drifting snow,
                        And time laughs on as 't were a jest
                        That I have any need of rest.
                    
                
                
                
                    LONGFELLOW.
                    
                        
                            THE winds have talked with him confidingly;
                        The trees have whispered to him; and the night
                        Hath held him gently as a mother might,
                        And taught him all sad tones of melody:
                        The mountains have bowed to him; and the sea,
                        In clamorous waves, and murmurs exquisite,
                        Hath told him all her sorrow and delight
                        Her legends fairher darkest mystery.
                        His verse blooms like a flower, night and day;
                        Bees cluster round his rhymes; and twitterings
                        Of lark and swallow, in an endless May,
                        Are mingling with the tender songs he sings.
                        Nor shall he cease to singin every lay
                        Of Nature's voice he singsand will alway.
                    
                
                
                
                    JOHN MCKEEN.
                    
                        
                            JOHN McKEEN, in his rusty dress,
                        His loosened collar, and swarthy throat;
                        His face unshaven, and none the less,
                        His hearty laugh and his wholesomeness,
                        And the wealth of a workman's vote!
                    
                    
                        Bring him, O Memory, here once more,
                        And tilt him back in his windsor chair
                        By the kitchen-stove, when the day is o'er
                        And the light of the hearth is across the floor,
                        And the crickets everywhere!
                    
                    
                        And let their voices be gladly blent
                        With a watery jingle of pans and spoons,
                        And a motherly chirrup of sweet content,
                        And neighborly gossip and merriment,
                        And old-time fiddle-tunes!
                    
                    
                        Tick the clock with a wooden sound,
                        And fill the hearing with childish glee
                        Of rhyming riddle, or story found
                        In the Robinson Crusoe, leather-bound
                        Old book of the Used-to-be!
                    
                    
                    
                        John McKeen of the Past! Ah, John,
                        To have grown ambitious in worldly ways!
                        To have rolled your shirt-sleeves down, to don
                        A broadcloth suit, and, forgetful, gone
                        Out on election days!
                    
                    
                        John, ah, John! did it prove your worth
                        To yield you the office you still maintain?
                        To fill your pockets, but leave the dearth
                        Of all the happier things on earth
                        To the hunger of heart and brain?
                    
                    
                        Under the dusk of your villa trees,
                        Edging the drives where your blooded span
                        Paw the pebbles and wait your ease,
                        Where are the children about your knees,
                        And the mirth, and the happy man?
                    
                    
                        The blinds of your mansion are battened to;
                        Your faded wife is a close recluse;
                        And your "finished" daughters will doubtless do
                        Dutifully all that is willed of you,
                        And marry as you shall choose!
                    
                    
                        But O for the old-home voices, blent
                        With the watery jingle of pans and spoons,
                        And the motherly chirrup of glad content,
                        And neighborly gossip and merriment,
                        And the old-time fiddle-tunes!
                    
                
                
                
                    THEIR SWEET SORROW.
                    
                        
                            THEY meet to say farewell: Their way
                        Of saying this is hard to say.
                        He holds her hand an instant, wholly
                        Distressedand she unclasps it slowly.
                    
                    
                        He bends his gaze evasively
                        Over the printed page that she
                        Recurs to, with a new-moon shoulder
                        Glimpsed from the lace-mists that enfold her.
                    
                    
                        The clock, beneath its crystal cup,
                        Discreetly clicks"Quick! Act! Speak up!"
                        A tension circles both her slender
                        Wristsand her raised eyes flash in splendor,
                    
                    
                        Even as he feels his dazzled own.
                        Then, blindingly, round either thrown,
                        They feel a stress of arms that ever
                        Strain tremblinglyand "Never!
                            Never!"
                    
                    
                        Is whispered brokenly, with half
                        A sob, like a belated laugh,
                        While cloyingly their blurred kiss closes,
                        Sweet as the dew's lip to the rose's.
                    
                
                
                
                    SOME SCATTERING REMARKS OF BUB'S.
                    
                        
                            WUNST I tooked our pepper-box lid
                        An' cut little pie-dough biscuits, I did,
                        And cooked 'em on our stove one day
                        When our hired girl she said I may.
                    
                    
                        
                            Honey's the goodest thingOo-ooh!
                        
                        And blackberry-pies is goodest, too!
                        But wite hot biscuits, ist soakin'-wet
                        Wiv tree-mullasus, is goodest yet!
                    
                    
                        Miss Maimie she's my Ma's friend,an'
                        She's purtiest girl in all the lan'!
                        An' sweetest smile an' voice an' face
                        An' eyes ist looks like p'serves tas'e'!
                    
                    
                        I ruther go to the Circus-show;
                        But, 'cause my parunts told me so,
                        I ruther go to the Sund'y School,
                        'Cause there I learn the goldun rule.
                    
                    
                        Say, Pa,what is the goldun rule
                        'At's allus at the Sund'y School?
                    
                
                
                
                    MR. WHAT'S-HIS-NAME.
                    
                        
                            THEY called him Mr. What's-his-name:
                        From where he was, or why he came,
                        Or when, or what he found to do,
                        Nobody in the city knew.
                    
                    
                        He lived, it seemed, shut up alone
                        In a low hovel of his own;
                        There cooked his meals and made his bed,
                        Careless of all his neighbors said.
                    
                    
                        His neighbors, too, said many things
                        Expressive of grave wonderings,
                        Since none of them had ever been
                        Within his doors, or peered therein.
                    
                    
                        In fact, grown watchful, they became
                        Assured that Mr. What's-his-name
                        Was up to something wrongindeed,
                        Small doubt of it, we all agreed.
                    
                    
                        At night were heard strange noises there,
                        When honest people everywhere
                        Had long retired; and his light
                        Was often seen to burn all night.
                    
                    
                    
                        He left his house but seldomthen
                        Would always hurry back again,
                        As though he feared some stranger's knock,
                        Finding him gone, might burst the lock.
                    
                    
                        Beside, he carried, every day,
                        At the one hour he went away,
                        A basket, with the contents hid
                        Beneath its woven willow lid.
                    
                    
                        And so we grew to greatly blame
                        This wary Mr. What's-his-name,
                        And look on him with such distrust
                        His actions seemed to sanction just.
                    
                    
                        But when he diedhe died one day
                        Dropped in the street while on his way
                        To that old wretched hut of his
                        You'll think it strangeperhaps it is
                    
                    
                        But when we lifted him, and past
                        The threshold of his home at last,
                        No man of all the crowd but stepped
                        With reverence,Aye, quailed and wept!
                        
                    
                    
                        What was it? Just a shriek of pain
                        I pray to never hear again
                        A withered woman, old and bowed,
                        That fell and crawled and cried aloud
                    
                    
                    
                        And kissed the dead man's matted hair
                        Lifted his face and kissed him there
                        Called to him, as she clutched his hand,
                        In words no one could understand.
                    
                    
                        Insane? Yes.Well, we, searching, found
                        An unsigned letter, in a round
                        Free hand, within the dead man's breast:
                        "Look to my motherI'm at rest.
                    
                    
                        'You'l find my money safely hid
                        Under the lining of the lid
                        Of my work-basket. It is hers,
                        And God will bless her ministers!"
                    
                    
                        And some daythough he died unknown
                        If through the City by the Throne
                        I walk, all cleansed of earthly shame,
                        I'll ask for Mr. What's-his-name.
                    
                
                
                
                    WHEN AGE COMES ON.
                    
                        
                            WHEN Age comes on!
                        The deepening dusk is where the dawn
                        Once glittered splendid, and the dew
                        In honey-drips, from red rose-lips
                        Was kissed away by me and you.
                        And now across the frosty lawn
                        Black foot-prints trail, and Age comes on
                        And Age comes on!
                        And biting wild-winds whistle through
                        Our tattered hopesand Age comes on!
                    
                    
                        When Age comes on!
                        O tide of raptures, long withdrawn,
                        Flow back in summer-floods, and fling
                        Here at our feet our childhood sweet,
                        And all the songs we used to sing!. . .
                        Old loves, old friendsall dead and gone
                        Our old faith lostand Age comes on
                        And Age comes on!
                        Poor hearts! have we not anything
                        But longings left when Age comes on?
                    
                
                
                
                    ENVOY.
                    
                        
                            JUST as of old! The world rolls on and on;
                        The day dies into nightnight into dawn
                        Dawn into duskthrough centuries untold.
                        Just as of old.
                    
                    
                        Time loiters not. The river ever flows,
                        Its brink or white with blossoms or with snows;
                        Its tide or warm with Spring or Winter cold:
                        Just as of old.
                    
                    
                        Lo! where is the beginning, where the end
                        Of living, loving, longing? Listen, friend!
                        God answers with a silence of pure gold
                        Just as of old.
                    
                
            
        
    
