
     ----CITATION---- 
        Eggleston, Edward, 1837-1902. Roxy: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2447
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            	FRONTISPIECE
                
                
                    "I'LL PAY HER UP!"
                
            
            
            
                
                    Roxy
                
                BY EDWARD EGGLESTON, AUTHOR OF "THE HOOSIER SCHOOLMASTER," "THE
                    CIRCUIT RIDER," ETC., ETC.
                
                    
                    	Enthousiasme, état momentané, mouvement extraordinaire
                    	d'esprit, causé presque toujours par une cause extéricure. Exaltation, état habituel, élévation constant que l'âme
                    	doit á ses propres forces, que est dans sa propre nature.
                    GUIZOT,
                        Dictionnaire des Synonymes.
                    
                
                
                    NEW YORK:
                    CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, SUCCESSORS TO SCRIBNER, ARMSTRONG
                        & CO.
                    1878.
                
            
            
            
            	VERSO
                COPYRIGHT BY
                     CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, 1878. (All rights
                        reserved.)
                TROW'S
                     PRINTING & BOOKBINDING CO.,
                     205--213 East 12th St.,
                     NEW YORK.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    CHAPTER I. The Barbecue 1
                    CHAPTER II. After the Feast 13
                    CHAPTER III. The Country Hoe-Down 25
                    CHAPTER IV. Electioneering 35
                    CHAPTER V. Election Day 42
                    CHAPTER VI. A Genre Piece 53
                    CHAPTER VII. Twonnet 63
                    CHAPTER VIII. The Revival 66
                    CHAPTER IX. The Member from Luzerne 73
                    CHAPTER X. The Exhorter 85
                    CHAPTER XI. Divining Cups 95
                    CHAPTER XII. Whittaker's Ship Comes in 103
                    
                    CHAPTER XIII. A Weather-Breeder 108
                    CHAPTER XIV. Carpet-Rags and Ribbons 113
                    CHAPTER XV. Mark's Mission 120
                    CHAPTER XVI. After the Meeting 125
                    CHAPTER XVII. A Remonstrance 129
                    CHAPTER XVIII. Gossip and Giggling. 133
                    CHAPTER XIX. The Ruling Elder Interferes 139
                    CHAPTER XX. A Millstone 149
                    CHAPTER XXI. A Summer Storm 157
                    CHAPTER XXII. Roxy's Decision 161
                    CHAPTER XXIII. Bonamy, Senior 166
                    CHAPTER XXIV. By the Flank 171
                    CHAPTER XXV. Saint Theresa of the Honeysuckles 177
                    CHAPTER XXVI. A Panther 182
                    CHAPTER XXVII. Nancy in Town 186
                    CHAPTER XXVIII. Evermore 195
                    
                    CHAPTER XXIX. The Infare 200
                    CHAPTER XXX. Love and Grammar 211
                    CHAPTER XXXI. An Attempt to Foreclose 215
                    CHAPTER XXXII. The Overthrow of Both 225
                    CHAPTER XXXIII. The "Duke of Orleans" 233
                    CHAPTER XXXIV. A Monitor in Mask 237
                    CHAPTER XXXV. Backslidings 245
                    CHAPTER XXXVI. An Improper Fraction 252
                    CHAPTER XXXVII. Divisions 258
                    CHAPTER XXXVIII. Going Wrong 265
                    CHAPTER XXXIX. The Easy Road Downward 271
                    CHAPTER XL. Roxy and Whittaker 280
                    CHAPTER XLI. The Enemy 290
                    CHAPTER XLII. Counsel, and the Result 296
                    CHAPTER XLIII. Jim's Rifle 305
                    CHAPTER XLIV. A Break 312
                    
                    CHAPTER XLV. Coming Darkness 318
                    CHAPTER XLVI. Roxy Shakes the Dust from her Feet 326
                    CHAPTER XLVII. A Day of Judgment 334
                    CHAPTER XLVIII. The Tempter 340
                    CHAPTER XLIX. The Helper 346
                    CHAPTER L. A Woman that was a Sinner 355
                    CHAPTER LI. Salvation by Hook and by Crook 366
                    CHAPTER LII. An Expedition 376
                    CHAPTER LIII. Roxy's Return 388
                    CHAPTER LIV. The Clouds Return after the Rain 394
                    CHAPTER LV. Serving Omphale 400
                    CHAPTER LVI. The Gable Window 403
                    CHAPTER LVII. The Steamboat Explosion 414
                    CHAPTER LVIII. Jim and Nancy 422
                    CHAPTER LIX. The Prodigal 424
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS.
                
                    1. "I'LL PAY HER UP!" 
                            Frontispiece.
                        
                    
                    2. THE HOE-DOWN AT KIRTLEY'S
                        32
                    3. "HURRAY FOR YORK AND POSEY!" 47
                    4. TWONNET AND ROXY TELLING FORTUNES
                        95
                    5. "THE OTHER WAY!" CRIED THE MISCHIEVOUS VOICE
                            OF TWONNET
                        107
                    6. "WIDOWERS ARE DREADFUL PARTICULAR, COLONEL." 173
                    7. "PLEASE, ROXY, DON'T LET HIM GO." 223
                    8. IMPROPER FRACTIONS.
                        255
                    9. "SHOOT! JIM, SHOOT!" 310
                    10. LATHERS HELD IT
                            SO SHE COULD SEE IT
                        320
                    11. "YOU'RE HAVING A HARD TIME, NANCY," SAID ROXY
                        382
                    12. "THE NEXT DAY
                            (SUNDAY), SHE TOOK HER PLACE IN THE METHODIST
                            CHURCH" 432
                
            
        
        
            
            
                ROXY.
                
                    CHAPTER I.
                    THE BARBECUE.
                    YOU would have known that it was a holiday in the
                        county-seat village of Luzerne, had you fallen in with a party of country
                        boys dressed in white cotton shirts and trousers of blue jeans, who hurried
                        along the road at sunrise, to the summit of the hill that overlooks the
                        town. You might have guessed that it was an occasion of merry-making by the
                        eager speech and over-reaching steps of the boys, hastening, boy-like, hours
                        beforehand to the scene of anticipated excitement, trembling lest some
                        happening of interest should be unseen by them. Job's war-horse was never
                        half so eager for the fray. Hearing already the voices of others of their
                        kind shouting in the village streets below, they do not pause a moment on
                        the crest but plunge forward down the "dug-road" that slants along the steep
                        hill-side, until it reaches the level plain below and debouches into the
                        main street of the town.
                    But you, had you been of their company, must have halted on the hill to look
                        off eastward where the sun is quivering in the thin yellow-and-white
                        horizon-clouds that hang over green hills. You must have stopped to look at
                        the Luzerne island in its many shades of green, 
                        from the dark maple-leaf to the lighter cotton-wood and sycamore, the whole
                        fringed by a margin of yet paler water-willows which dip their outermost
                        boughs into the placid water of the broad Ohio, glistening in the early
                        sunlight like the apocalyptic river of life. You must have paused and looked
                        away in the other direction to the long stretch of river to the westward,
                        till at last in a grand sweep to the south you lost sight of that majestic
                        current, which first by the Indians, then by the French, and then by the
                        English-speaking settlers has been called "The Beautiful." You must have
                        looked across the mile-wide current to the little Kentucky village on the
                        bank opposite you, its white houses shut in by a line of green hills behind.
                        And just beneath, on the nearer bank, lies Luzerne, one of the oldest towns
                        in this new country, and the fairest object in the landscape. There are no
                        fine housesï¿½only white "frame" and red brick ones, with now and then an
                        aboriginal log-cabin standing like an old settler, unabashed among more
                        genteel neighbors. But all the yards are full of apple-trees and rose-bushes
                        and lilacsï¿½lay-locks the people call themï¿½and altheas
                        and flowering almonds. Here one sees chimney-tops and roofs jutting out of
                        the surrounding green of the trees, and there are large patches of unfenced
                        greensward or "common" upon which the newly-milked cows are already
                        congregating, their bells, on different keys, keeping up a ceaseless
                        tinkling. You see the brand-new court-house with glittering brass ball above
                        the belfry, standing in the treeless, grass-green "public square;" and there
                        in plain sight is the old town pump in front of the court-house, and about
                        it the boys and girls who have come hither for water.
                    But the party of country boys with whom we started  have almost reached the foot of the hill. They have gone down running,
                        walking, and leaping by turns. Now and then one of them stops, and looking
                        over the valley and the village, swings his cap and cries out: "Hurrah for
                        Harrison and Tyler!" or, "Hurrah for Tippecanoe and Tyler too!" Not,
                        perhaps, because he knows or cares anything about the candidates for the
                        presidency, but because a young cock must flap his wings and crow. Most of
                        the enthusiasm of a political canvass is the effervescence of animal
                        spirits. The struggle of the leaders is to make this overflowing tide of
                        surplus life grind their grists. It was the processions and hard cider and
                        log-cabins of 1840 that gave the Whigs the election.
                    But now other parties of straggling boys and men are coming into the village,
                        afoot and on horseback, over this hill, and over others, and along the
                        river-banks; while skiffs are crossing from Kentucky. In the village the
                        trees are full of birds; yellow-hammers, jays, blue-birds, sap-suckers,
                        red-birds, pee-wees, cat-birds, martins, and all the others that abound in
                        the genial climate of Southern Indiana, are filling the air with their
                        whistling calls to one another; the singing locust sends forth everywhere in
                        quick-following vibrant waves his curious notes; but we do not hear these
                        things. The usually quiet streets have already the premonitory symptoms of
                        the on-coming excitement of the day, and the village lads in Sunday clothes,
                        but barefoot none the less, are singing lustily to one another, such
                        refrains as this: 
                            
                                "Hurrah for Harrison and Tyler!
                                Beat the Dutch or bust your b'iler!"
                            
                         to which some sturdy Democratic boy, resolved not to strike his colors,
                        replies with a defiant, "Hurrah for Little 
                        Van!" and the Whig, feeling himself in the ascendant for the day, responds
                        by singing: 
                            
                                "Little Van's a used-up man,
                                A used-up man, a used-up man,
                                A used-up man is he!"
                            
                         But the opposite side can readily answer again with ditties quite as
                        forcible and ungrammatical.
                    By this time it wants a quarter of six o'clock, and the bell in the belfry of
                        the tavern is ringing in a jerky fashion its warning for breakfast. It is
                        the one invariable thingï¿½holidays may come and go, but the tavern bell
                        never fails to ring at six and twelve and six, with a first bell fifteen
                        minutes before the hours for meals. The movements of all the people in the
                        town are regulated by this steady old bell, and were it to waver in its
                        punctuality the life of the community would be thrown into disorder; clocks
                        would have no regulator; meals would be out of time; farmers would not know
                        when to start homeward; preachers would have no reminder of the length of
                        their sermons.
                    By seven o'clock on this day of the barbecue, the village is in a state of
                        general expectancy. Girls are traveling to and fro singly and in squads;
                        women are talking to each other over garden fences, and at front gates;
                        merchants in their Sunday clothes are standing on the sidewalks, and boys
                        are hurrying away to the great beech-woods on the river-bank above the town,
                        where the barbecue is to be held, and then hurrying back to the village to
                        see what is to be seen there. Wagons, loaded with provisions of various
                        sorts, are constantly arriving from the country and making their way direct
                        to the barbecue ground.
                    Where are you going, Roxy?" asks a girl of sixteen  in a lawn dress of another a year older, perhaps, in a bright new
                        gingham. She speaks with that flutter of expectancy in her voice which girls
                        always have at such times.
                    "To the beech-woods to see them roast the oxenï¿½I thought it might please
                        Bobo, here," and saying this she turned toward a pale boy whom she led by
                        the hand.
                    "Please Bobo here," the lad echoed, with a childish exultation, and a strange
                        wistful look in his eyes.
                    "I wonder what poor Bobo thinks about these things?" said the girl in lawn,
                        looking at the lad's pale face and uncertain eyes.
                    "Bobo thinks about these things," he echoed, with a baby-like chuckle of
                        happiness.
                    "I believe he does, don't you, Roxy?"
                    "I know he does," said Roxy, looking at her unfortunate charge tenderly; "to
                        be sure he does."
                    "To be sure he does," chimed in Bobo, with a deligh, which was increased by
                        the smiles of the girls.
                    "You see," continued Roxy, "he was a very smart little fellow till he got
                        that fall. I don't think his mind is injured, exactly. It is only the brain.
                        It seems to me like old Mrs. Post's cataract over her eyes, a sort of
                        filmï¿½a cataract over his mind, Twonnet.* Things don't get in and out
                        well, but he seems to keep trying to think inside."
                    "Think inside!" cried the foolish fellow, beginning now to pull Roxy's hand
                        to signify that he wanted to go, and saying, "See how nice!" as he pointed
                        to the flags suspended over the street.
                            * This
                            orthography best represents the common pronunciation of the name among
                            the village people. It rhymes exactly with the word "bonnet."
                    
                    
                    "He is very fond of red," exclaimed Roxy.
                    "You're better than most people, Roxy. They'd be ashamed to take anybody that
                        wasï¿½wasï¿½simpleï¿½you know, around with them."
                    "Why?" said Roxy, in surprise. "I think Bobo will always be one of those
                        'little ones' that are mentioned in the Bible. He don't know any harm, and I
                        won't let him learn any. I could hardly live without him." Then she added in
                        a lower tone: "I used to feel a little ashamed of him sometimes when people
                        laughed. But that was a very bad feeling, I am sure. Good Bobo!"
                    "Good Bobo!" he chuckled, still pulling at Roxy's hand until she had to go
                        on, Bobo expressing his pleasure whenever they passed beneath the flags.
                        Going through the crowd of people in holiday dress, who were slaking their
                        thirst at the town pumpï¿½the handle of which had no restï¿½they turned at
                        last into the principal street running toward the river. The village was
                        chiefly built upon the second bank or terrace. The street led them down to
                        the lower bank, which was thinly occupied by one or two hay warehouses and
                        some dilapidated dwellings. This part of the town had once been in a fair
                        way to take the lead on account of its proximity to the landing, but in the
                        great flood of 1832 the river had quite submerged it, rising almost to the
                        height of the rooms on the second floor, and floating away one or two
                        buildings. The possibility of a repetition of this calamity had prevented
                        the erection of new houses on this level, and some of the better ones had
                        been given up by their owners, so that now this part of the town was the
                        domain of fishermen, boatmen, and those poor people who, having always to
                        struggle to keep the soul in the body, are glad to get any shelter in which
                        to keep the body itself. The fewness of  their
                        chattels made removals easy, and since they were, most of them, amphibious
                        creatures, they had no morbid dread of a freshet. Several of the better
                        class, too, had held on to their rose-embowered homes on this lovely
                        river-bank, declaring their belief that "the flood of '32" had deepened the
                        channel of the river, so that there was now no danger.
                    But this lower bank seemed all the more beautiful to Roxy and Bobo that there
                        were so few houses on it. The fences for the most part had not been rebuilt
                        after the flood, so that there was a broad expanse of greensward. Their path
                        took them along the river-bank, and to Roxy the wide river was always a
                        source of undefined joy.
                    Following the hurrying squads of boys and men, and the track of wagons, they
                        came at last into the forest of primeval beech that stretched away for a
                        mile above the town, on this lower flat bordering the river. Here were not
                        such beech-trees as grow on the rocky-hills of New England, stunted in
                        height and with a divided trunk. These great trees, having a deep and
                        fertile soil, push their trunks in stately columns heavenward, sending
                        forth, everywhere, slender lateral limbs that droop soon after leaving the
                        trunk, then recover themselves and droop a little once more at the distant
                        tips, almost making Hogarth's line. The stillness of the deep shade was
                        broken now by the invasion of busy men and idle boys; there were
                        indescribable cries; the orders, advice, and jokes shouted from one to
                        another, had a sound as of desecration. Here a table was being spread, set
                        in the form of a hollow square to accommodate a thousand people; in another
                        place hundreds of great loaves of bread were being cut into slices by men
                        with sharp knives.
                    All of this pleased Bobo, but when at last Roxy took  him to the pit, thirty feet long, over which half a dozen oxen
                        split in halves were undergoing the process called barbecuing, he was
                        greatly excited. A great fire had been kept burning in this trench during
                        the night, and now the bottom, six feet below the surface, was covered with
                        a bed of glowing coals. As the beeves over this fire were turned from time
                        to time, they kept up a constant hissing, as such a giant's broil must; and
                        this sound with the intense heat terrified the lad.
                    He was better pleased when Roxy led him away to a tree where a thrifty farmer
                        was selling ginger-cakes and cider, and spent all her moneyï¿½five
                        old-fashioned "coppers"ï¿½in buying for him a glass of cider which sold for
                        five cents, with a scolloped ginger-cake thrown in.
                    Cut now the drum and fife were heard, and Roxy could plainly see a procession
                        of Whigs from the country coming down the hill in the rear of the village.
                        Others were coming by the other roads that led into the town. The crowd of
                        idlers who scattered about the grove started pell-mell for the village,
                        where all of these companies, in wagons and on horseback, were to be formed
                        into one grand procession.
                    But Roxy took pains to secure for Bobo a perch on a fence-corner at the end
                        of the lane by which the wood was entered. When at last the procession came,
                        the poor fellow clapped his hands at sight of the wagons with log-cabins and
                        great barrels of "hard cider" on them. Every waving banner gave him
                        pleasure, and the drum and fife set him in an ecstasy. When the crowd
                        cheered for Harrison and Tyler, he did not fail to join in the shout. The
                        party of country boys who had come over the hill in the morning, observing
                        the delight of the poor fellow, began to make sport of him, calling him an
                        idiot, and  quizzing him with puzzling
                        questions, thus drawing the attention of the crowd to Bobo, who sat on the
                        fence, and to Roxy, who stood by, and tried in vain to shield him from the
                        mockery.
                    Happily, about that time the procession halted on account of some difficulty
                        in turning an angle with the long wagon which held the twenty-five
                        allegorical young girls from Posey township, who represented the two dozen
                        states of the Union, with a plump Hoosier Goddess of Liberty presiding over
                        them. It happened that in the part of the procession which halted opposite
                        to Bobo's perch on the fence, was Mark Bonamy, who was quite an important
                        figure in the procession. His fatherï¿½Colonel Bonamyï¿½had been a member of
                        Congress, and as a Whig son of a Democratic father of such prominence, the
                        young man of twenty-one was made much of. Reckoned the most promising young
                        man in the county, he was to-day to declaim his maiden speech before the
                        great audience at the barbecue. But being a politician, already ambitious
                        for office, he close not to ride in the carriage with the "orators of the
                        day," but on his own horse among the young men, to whose good-will he must
                        look for his political success. The boys perched on the "rider" of the
                        rail-fence were now asking Bobo questions, to which the simple fellow only
                        gave answer by echoing the last words; and seeing the flush of pain on
                        Roxy's face at the laughter thus excited, Mark called out to the boy to let
                        Bobo alone.
                    "It don't matter," replied the boy; "he's only a fool, anyhow, if he is named
                        Bonaparte."
                    At this the other boys tittered, but young Bonamy wheeled his horse out of
                        the line, and, seizing Bobo's chief tormentor by the collar of his
                        roundabout, gave him  a vigorous shaking, and
                        then dropped him trembling with terror to the ground. His comrades, not
                        wishing to meet the same punishment, leaped down upon the other side of the
                        fence and dispersed into the crowd.
                    "Thank you, Mark," said Roxy.
                    "Oh, that's all right," answered Mark, with Western unconventionality. He
                        tried to look unconscious as he again took his place in the ranks with
                        reddened face, and the same crowd that had laughed at the ridicule put upon
                        Bobo now cheered Mark for punishing his persecutor. Even Bobo showed
                        satisfaction at the boy's downfall.
                    The Whig leaders of 1840 roasted beeves in order to persuade the independent
                        voters to listen to arguments on the tariff; they washed down abstruse
                        reasonings about the United States Bank with hard cider; and by good feeding
                        persuaded the citizens to believe in internal improvement. But in order to
                        the success of such a plan, it was necessary that the speeches should come
                        first. The procession, therefore, was marched to the stand; the horsemen
                        dismounted; the allegorical young ladies, who represented sovereign states
                        dressed in white muslin, took places on the stand; and most of the other
                        people seated themselves on the benches in front, while the drums and fifes
                        were played on the platform, where also were ranged the speakers and some
                        ornamental figuresï¿½an ex-Congressman, a colonel of the war of 1812, and a
                        few lingering veterans of the Revolution, who sat near the front, that their
                        gray hairs, solitary arms, and wooden legs might be the more
                        conspicuous.
                    Since Mark Bonamy's interference in her behalf, Roxy had rapidly elevated the
                        young man into a hero. She cared nothing whatever about banks or tariffs, or
                        internal improvements, but now she was eager to hear Mark make  his speech. For when an enthusiastic young
                        girl comes to admire a man for one thing, she straightway sets about finding
                        other reasons for admiration.
                    Mark was sent to the front to make the opening speech, upon which one of the
                        young men got up on a bench in the back part of the audience and cried:
                        "Three cheers for Bonamy!" The grateful Roxy was pleased with this tribute
                        to her hero, whose triumph seemed somewhat to be her own. Bobo recognized
                        his deliverer and straightway pointed his finger at Mark, saying to
                        Roxy:
                    "Looky, Roxy, looky there!"
                    Indeed, she had much trouble to keep him from pointing and talking throughout
                        Mark's speech.
                    In Roxy's estimation the speech was an eloquent one. There were no learned
                        discussions of banks and tariffs, no exhaustive treatment of the question of
                        the propriety of internal improvements by the general governmentï¿½all of
                        these questions were to be handled by Judge Wool, who was double-shotted
                        with statistics. Mark Bonamy's speech was not statesman-like. It was all the
                        more popular for that. He had the advantage, to begin with, of a fine
                        presence. His large, well-formed body, his healthful handsome countenance,
                        his clear eye, and the general look of quick intelligence about him, and a
                        certain air of good-fellowship won upon the audience, even while the young
                        man stood with flushed face waiting for the cheering to subside. He did not
                        lack self-possession, and his speech was full of adroit appeals to national
                        pride and to party spirit. He made some allusions to the venerable soldiers
                        who sat by him and to their comrades who slumbered in their bloody graves on
                        the hard-fought fields of Bunker Hill and Brandywine, and Germantown and
                        Trenton. He brought forth rounds of cheers by his remarks  on Harrison's log-cabin. Measured by the
                        applause he gained it was the best speech of the day. A
                            criti- might have said that many of the most telling
                        points were unfairly taken, but a critic has no place at a barbecue. How
                        else could Roxy judge of such a speech but by the effect?
                    Very few of the voters were able to follow Judge Wool's argument against the
                        veto of the Bank Bill and the removal of the deposits, and in favor of the
                            adoptio- of a protective tariff that should save the
                        country from the jaws of the British lion. But the old heads declared it a
                        "mighty weighty" argument, and the young ones feeling its heaviness,
                        assented. After some stirring speeches by more magnetic men, there was music
                        by the drum and fife, and then the hungry crowd surrounded the tables, on
                        which there was little else but bread and the barbecued meat.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II.
                    AFTER THE FEAST.
                    WHEN Roxy wended her way home that afternoon she found the
                        streets full of people, many of whom had not limited their potations to hard
                        cider. Flem Giddings, whose left arm had been shot away while he was ramming
                        a cannon at a Fourth of July celebration, was very anxious to fight, but
                        even his drunken companions were too chivalrous to fight with a one-armed
                        man. So the poor cripple went round vainly defying every man he met, daring
                        each one to fight, and declaring that he "could lick any two-fisted coward
                        in town, by thunder and lightning!" A little further on, big Wash Jones kept
                        staggering up to plucky little Dan McCrea, declaring that Dan was a coward.
                        But Dan, who was not quite so drunk, was unwilling to strike Wash until at
                        last the latter slapped Dan in the face, upon which the fiery little fellow
                        let his hard fist fly, doubling the big man against a wall. Roxy, terrified
                        at the disorder, was hurrying by at that moment; she saw the blow and the
                        fall of the bleeding man, and she uttered a little startled cry. Forgetting
                        herself and Bobo, the excited girl pushed through the crowd and undertook to
                        lift up the fallen champion. Dan looked ashamed of his blow and the rest
                        crowding round felt cowed when Roxy, with tears on her face, said:
                    
                    "What do you stand by for and let drunken men fight? Come, put poor Wash on
                        his horse and send him home."
                    The men were quick enough now to lift up the sot and help him into his
                        saddle. It was notorious that Wash could hardly be so drunk that he could
                        not ride. He balanced himself in the saddle with difficulty, and the horse,
                        who had learned to adapt himself to his reeling burden, swayed from side to
                        side.
                    "Psh-shaw!" stuttered the rider as the blood trickled upon his
                        mud-bespattered clothes, "aint I a-a-a party sight? To go home to my wife
                        lookin' this a-way!"
                    Whereupon he began to weep in a maudlin fashion and the men burst into a
                        guffaw, Jim Peters declaring that he 'lowed Wash would preach his own
                        funeral sermon when he was dead. But Roxy went home crying. For she was
                        thinking of the woman whose probable sufferings she measured by her own
                        sensibilities. And the men stood looking after her, declaring to one another
                        that she was "a odd thing, to be sure."
                    When Roxy had passed the pump on her return, and had come into the quieter
                        part of the village, Bobo, who had been looking at the flags, perceived that
                        she was crying. He went directly in front of her, and taking out his
                        handkerchief, began eagerly to wipe away the tears, saying in pitiful tones,
                        "No, no! Roxy mustn't cry! Roxy mustn't cry!" But this sympathy only made
                        the tears flow faster than ever, while Bobo still wiped them away,
                        entreating her not to cry, until at last he began to cry himself, upon which
                        Roxy, by a strong effort, controlled herself.
                    The house in which Roxy Adams lived was one of the original log-buildings of
                        the village. It stood near  the edge of the
                        common, and some distance from the large, four-chimneyed brick which was the
                        home of the half-witted Bobo, who was first cousin to Roxy on the mother's
                        side. Roxy's father was the principal shoemaker of the village; he could
                        make an excellent pair of "rights and lefts," and if the customer insisted
                        on having them, he would turn out the old-fashioned "evens"ï¿½boots that
                        would fit either foot, and which, by change from one foot to another, could
                        be made to wear more economically. The old shoemaker was also quite
                        remarkable for the stubborn and contentious ability with which he discussed
                        all those questions that agitated the village intellect of the time.
                    When Roxy passed in at the gate with Bobo, she found her father sitting under
                        the apple-tree by the door. He of gave her a word of reproof for her
                        tardinessï¿½not that she deserved it, but that, like other people of that
                        day, he deemed it necessary to find fault with young people as often as
                        possible. Roxy took the rebuke in silence, hastening to milk the old, black
                        and white, spotted muley* cow, whose ugly, hornless head was visible over
                        the back gate, where she stood in the alley, awaiting her usual pail of
                        bran. Then supper had to be cooked in the widemouthed mouthed fire-place.
                        The corn-dodgersï¿½or, as they called them on the Indiana side of the river,
                        the "pones"ï¿½were tossed from hand to hand until they had assumed the
                        correct oval shape. Then they were deposited in the iron skillet already
                        heated on the fire, coals were put beneath, 
                        and a shovelful of hot coals heaped on the lidï¿½or "led," as the Hoosiers
                        called it, no doubt from a mistaken derivation of the word. The coffee was
                        ground, and after being mixed with white of egg to "settle" it, was put into
                        the pot; the singing iron tea-kettle hanging on the crane paid its tribute
                        of hot water, and then the coffee-pot was set on the trivet, over the live
                            coals.
                            * This word, like
                            many of our most curious and widely prevalent Americanisms, is not in
                            the dictionaries. In parts of New York State a hornless cow is called a
                            "mully" cow. Scotch immigrants use the word in this form and say that
                            the cows in the Island of Mull are hornless. At the West "mully" has
                            changed to "muley."
                    
                    By the time the tavern bell announced the arrival of the hour for eating,
                        Roxy had called her father to supper, and Bobo, who found no place so
                        pleasant as Roxy's home, sat down to supper with them. While they ate, they
                        could see through the front door troops of horsemen, who, warned by the
                        tavern bell, had taken their last drink in honor of the hero of Tippecanoe,
                        and started homeward in various stages of inebriety, some hurrahing for
                        nothing in particular.
                    The pitiful and religious soul of Roxy saw not a particle of the ludicrous
                        side of this grotesque exhibition of humanity in voluntary craze. She
                        sawï¿½and exaggerated, perhapsï¿½the domestic sorrow at the end of their
                        several roads, and she saw them as a procession of lost souls riding
                        pell-mell into a perdition which she had learned to regard as a place of
                        literal fiery torment.
                    Is it strange, therefore, that when Mr. Whittaker, the Presbyterian minister,
                        came in after supper, she should ask him earnestly and abruptly why God, who
                        was full of love, should make this world, in which there was so awful a
                        preponderance of sorrow? It was in vain that the minister tried to answer
                        her by shifting the responsibility to the shoulders of man, who committed
                        sin in Adam, "the federal head of the race;" it was in vain  that he took refuge in the sovereignty of God
                        and the mystery of His existence. The girl saw only that God brought
                        multitudes of people into life whose destiny was eternal sorrow and whose
                        destiny must have been known to Him from the beginning. She did not once
                        venture to doubt the goodness of God; but her spirit kept on wounding itself
                        with its own questioning, and Mr. "Whittaker, with all his logic, could give
                        her no relief. For feeling often evades logic, be it never so
                        discriminating. Whittaker, however, kept up the conversation, glad of any
                        pretext for talk with Roxy. The shoemaker was pleased to see him puzzled by
                        the girl's cleverness; but he seemed to side with Whittaker.
                    It was not considered proper at that day for a minister to spend so much time
                        in the society of the unconverted as Whittaker did in that of Roxy's father;
                        but the minister found him, in spite of his perversity, a most interesting
                        sinner. Whittaker liked to sharpen his wits against those of the shoe-maker,
                        who had read and thought a good deal in an eccentric way. The conversation
                        was specially pleasant when the daughter listened to their discussion, for
                        the minister was not yet quite twenty-five years of age, and what young man
                        of twenty-five is insensible to the pleasure of talking, with a bright girl
                        of seventeen for a listener?
                    When the minister and her father seated themselves under an apple-tree, it
                        cost Roxy a pang to lose the pleasure of hearing them talk; but Bobo was
                        exacting, and she sat down to amuse him with a monotonous play of her own
                        devising, which consisted in rolling a marble round the tea-tray. Whittaker
                        was not quite willing to lose his auditor; he asked Mr. Adams several times
                        if the night air was not bad, but the shoe-maker  was in one of his perverse moods, and refused to take the hint.
                    At last the time came for Roxy to lead Bobo home, and as she came out the
                        door, she heard her father say, in his most disputatious tone:
                    "I tell you, Mr. Whittaker, Henry the Eighth was the greatest monarch England
                        ever had. He put down popery."
                    "But how about the women whose heads he cut off?" asked the preacher,
                        laughing.
                    "That was a mere incidentï¿½a mere incident in his glorious career, sir,"
                        said the other, earnestly. "Half-a-dozen women's heads, more or less, are
                        nothing to what he did for civil and religious liberty."
                    "But suppose one of the heads had been Roxy's?" queried Whittaker, watching
                        Roxy as she unlatched the gate.
                    "That's nothing to do with it," persisted Adams. "Roxy's head is as light as
                        the rest."
                    Roxy was a little hurt by her father's speech; but she knew his love of
                        contradiction, and neither she nor any one else could ever be quite sure
                        when he was in earnest. His most solemn beliefs were often put forth in
                        badinage, and he delighted to mask his jests under the most vehement
                        assertions. I doubt if he himself ever quite knew the difference between his
                        irony and his convictions.
                    But after Roxy had gone the father relented a little. He confessed that the
                        girl's foolishness was different from that of other girls. But it was folly
                        none the less. For if a girl isn't a fool about fine clothes and beaux and
                        all that, she's sure to make up for it by being a fool about religion. Here
                        he paused for Whittaker to reply, but he  was
                        silent, and Adams could not see in the darkness whether or not he was
                        rendered uncomfortable by his remark. So, urged on by the demon of
                        contradiction, he proceeded:
                    "Little or big, young or old, women are all fools. But Roxy had it rather
                        different from the rest. It struck in with her. She was only ten years old
                        when old Seth Lumley was sent to jail for stealing hogs, and his wife and
                        three little children were pretty nigh starving. That little fool of a Roxy
                        picked blackberries three Saturdays hand-running and brought them into town
                        three miles, and sold them and gave all the money to the old woman. But the
                        blackberry-briers tore more off her clothes than the berries came to. The
                        little goose did it because she believed the Bible and all that about doing
                        good to the poor and so on. She believes the Bible yet. She's the only
                        person in town that's fool enough to think that all the stuff you preachers
                        say is true and meant to be carried out. The rest of you don't believe
                        itï¿½at least nobody tries to do these things. They were just meant to sound
                        nicely in church, you know."
                    Again he paused to give Whittaker a chance to contradict.
                    "I tell you," he went on, "I don't believe in over-pious folks. Roxy would
                        take the shoes off her feet to give them to some lazy fool that ought to
                        work. She will take care of Bobo, for instance. That gives Bobo's mother
                        time to dress and run 'round. Now what's the use in Roxy's being such a
                        fool? It's all because you preachers harp on self-denial so much. So it
                        goes. The girls that are not fools are made fools by you preachers."
                    Adams had not meant to be so rude, but Whittaker's meekness under his
                        stinging speeches was very provoking.  Having
                        set out to irritate his companion he became irritated at his own failure and
                        was carried further than he intended. Whittaker thought best not to grow
                        angry with this last remark, but laughed at it as pleasantry. The old
                        shoe-maker's face, however, did not relax. He only looked sullen and fierce
                        as though he had seriously intended to insult his guest.
                    "Preachers and talking cobblers are a demoralizing set, I
                        grant," said Whittaker, rising to go.
                    "It is the chief business of a talking cobbler to protect people from the
                        influence of preachers," answered Adams.
                    Suspecting the growing annoyance of his companion, Adams relented and began
                        to cast about for some words with which to turn his savage and quite
                        insincere speech into pleasantry. But the conversation was interrupted just
                        then by the racket of two snare-drums, and one bassdrum, and the shrill
                        screaming of a fife. The demonstrations of the day were being concluded by a
                        torch-light procession. Both Whittaker and Adams were relieved by the
                        interruption, which gave the minister a chance to say good-night and which
                        gave Adams the inscriptions to read. The first one was a revolving
                        transparency which had upon its first side "Out of;" then upon the second
                        was the picture of a log-cabin; on the third, the words "into the;" on the
                        fourth, a rude drawing of the "presidential mansion," as we republicans call
                        it; so that it read to all beholders: "Out of a log-cabin into the White
                        House." There were many others denouncing the administration, calling the
                        president a "Dutchman," and reciting the military glories of the here of
                        Tippecanoe. Of course the changes were rung upon "hard cider," which was
                        supposed to be General Harrison's meat and drink.  At the very rear of the procession came a company of young
                        fellows with a transparency inscribed: "For Representative, Mark
                        Bonamyï¿½the eloquent young Whig."
                    Meantime Roxy stood upon the steps of her aunt's house with Bobo, who was
                        transported at seeing the bright display. She herself was quite pleased with
                        the inscription which complimented Mark.
                    She handed little Bonaparte Hanks over to his mother, saying,
                    "Here's Bobo. He's been a good boy. He saw the torches, Aunt Henrietta."
                    "Saw the torches, Aunt Henrietta," said the lad, for he had lived with Roxy
                        until he had come to style his mother as she did.
                    Aunt Henrietta did not pay much attention to Bobo. She sent him off to bed,
                        and said to Roxy:
                    "He must be great company to you, Roxy. I like to leave him with you, for I
                        know it makes you happy. And he thinks so much of you."
                    And then, when Roxy had said good-night and gone away home, Aunt Henrietta
                        turned to Jemima, her "help," and remarked, with great benignity, that she
                        did not know what that poor, motherless girl would do for society and
                        enjoyment if it were not for Bo. And with this placid shifting of the
                        obligation to the side most comfortable to herself, Mrs. Henrietta Hanks
                        would fain have dismissed the subject. But social distinctions had not yet
                        become well established in the West, and Jemima, who had been Mrs. Hanks'
                        school-mate in childhood, and who still called her "Henriette," was in the
                        habit of having her "say" in all discussions.
                    "You air rale kind, Henriette," she answered, with a  laugh; "it must be a favor to Roxy to slave herself for that
                        poor, simple child. And as he don't hardly know one hand from t'other, he
                        must be lots of comp'ny for the smartest girl in Luzerne," and Jemima
                        Dumbleton laughed aloud.
                    Mrs. Hanks would have been angry, if it had not been that to get angry was
                        troublesomeï¿½the more so that the indispensable Jemima was sure to keep her
                        temper and get the best of any discussion. So the mistress only flushed a
                        little, and replied:
                    "Don't give me any impertinence, Jemima. You haven't finished scrubbing the
                        kitchen floor yet."
                    "I'm much obleeged," chuckled Jemima, half aloud, "it's a
                        great privilege to scrub the floor. I'll have to git right down on my knees
                        to express my gratitude," and down she knelt to resume her scouring of the
                        floor, singing as she worked, with more vigor than melody, the words of an
                        old chorus:
                    
                        "Oh, hender me not, fer I will serve the
                            Lord,
                        And I'll praise Him when I die."
                    
                    As Roxy walked home beneath the black locust-trees that bordered the
                        sidewalk, she had an uncomfortable sense of wrong. She knew her aunt too
                        well to hope for any thanks for her pains with Bobo; but she could not quite
                        get over expecting them. She had taken up the care of the boy because she
                        saw him neglected, and because he was one of "the Bible little ones," as she
                        phrased it. Her attentions to him had their spring in pure benevolence and
                        religious devotion; but now she began to rebuke herself sternly for "seeking
                        the praise of men." She offered an earnest prayer that this, her sin, might
                            -
                         forgiven, and she resolved to be more kind
                        than ever to Bobo.
                    As she entered the path that led out of the street to the edge of the common
                        in which stood their house and garden-patch, she met the minister going
                        home. He paused a moment to praise her for her self-denying kindness to her
                        unfortunate cousin, then wished her good-night, and passed on. Spite of all
                        Roxy's resolutions against caring for the praise of men, she found the
                        appreciative words very sweet in her ears as she went on home in the
                        stillness of the summer night.
                    When she came to the house, her father stood by the gate which led into the
                        yard, already reproaching himself for his irascibility and his almost
                        involuntary rudeness to Mr. Whittaker; and since he was discordant with
                        himself, he was cross with Roxy.
                    "Much good you will ever get by taking care of Bobo," he said. "Your aunt
                        won't thank you, or leave you a shoe-string when she dies."
                    Roxy did not reply, but went off to bed annoyedï¿½not, however, at what her
                        father had said to her. She was used to his irritability, and she knew,
                        besides, that if she were to neglect Bobo, the crusty but tender-hearted
                        father would be the first to take him up. But from his mood she saw that he
                        had not parted pleasantly with Whittaker. And as she climbed the stairs she
                        thought of Whittaker's visit and wondered whether he would be driven away by
                        her father's harshness. And mingling with thoughts of the slender form of
                        Whittaker in her imagination, there came thoughts of the fine presence of
                        Mark Bonamy, and of his flowing speech. It was a pleasant world, after all.
                        She could afford to put out of memory Aunt Henrietta's ingratitude and her
                        father's moods.
                    
                    Mark, on his part, was at that very moment drinking to the success of the
                        log-cabin candidate, and if Rox- could have seen him
                        then, the picture with which she pleased herself of a high-toned and
                        chivalrous young mar- would doubtless have lost some of
                        the superfluous colo- which the events of the day had
                        given it.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III.
                    THE COUNTRY HOE-DOWN.
                    IT was some weeks after the barbecue that Mark Bonamy, now
                        a Whig candidate for representative in the Indiana legislature, set out to
                        electioneer. He was accompanied on this expedition by Major Tom Lathers, who
                        was running for sheriff. Both the young politician and the old one had taken
                        the precaution to dress themselves in country jeans, of undyed brown wool,
                        commonly known as butternut. Lathers was a tall, slim, fibrous man, whose
                        very face was stringy. He sat straight up on his rawboned, bobtailed horse
                        and seemed forever looking off into vacancy, like a wistful greyhound. Mark
                        had not succeeded in toning himself quite down to the country standard. He
                        did his best to look the sloven, but there was that in his handsome face,
                        well-nourished physique and graceful carriage that belied his butternut
                        clothes. He was but masquerading after all. But Lathers was to homespun
                        born; his gaunt, angular, tendinous figure, stepping when he walked as an
                        automaton might when worked by cords and pulleys, was not unbecomingly clad
                        in brown jeans and "stogy" boots.
                    The two were riding now toward Tanner Township, the wildest corner of the
                        county. Here on the head-waters of Rocky Fork there was a dance appointed
                        for this very evening, and the experienced Lathers had scented game.
                    "I tell you what, Bonamy, there's nothing like hoe-wns and
                        the like. Everybody is good-natured at a 
                        dance. I went to church last Sundayï¿½I always go to church when there is an
                        election coming on. People think I am in a hopeful state and the like, you
                        know, when they see that, and they vote for me to encourage me."
                    Here Lathers gave his companion a significant look from his small, twinkling
                        gray eyes and then diving into his pocket he drew forth a plug of tobacco
                        and bit off a large corner of it, which he masticated for a while with all
                        the energy of a man of serious purpose.
                    "You see," he proceeded, "a man's mind is always on his own business even in
                        meeting and the like, at least mine is when I'm running for anything. Well,
                        I heerd Whittaker read something from the Apostle Saul, I believe. No, I
                        ain't jist right shore, now. Now I come to think, I believe he said it was
                        from the first apostle to the Corinthians, an' I swear I ain't well 'nough
                        up in Bible to know who was the first and who was the second apostle to the
                        Corinthians."
                    Here Lathers spat meditatively, while Mark turned his head away.
                    "Well, never mind. It was either Saul or Paul, I think. He said something
                        about a feast, or big goin's-on and the like, at Jerusalem, that was to come
                        off sometime shortly. And he said that a great and effectooal door was
                        opened to him. Well, I says to myself, that old Saulï¿½Saulomon his full
                        name was, I reckonï¿½understood his business mighty well. He took folks when
                        they was a-havin' a good time and the like. Them was my meditations, Mark,
                        in the house of the Lord."
                    And Major Lathers stopped to laugh and wink his gr-y eyes
                        at Mark.
                    "An' when I heerd they was a good, ole-fashioned hoe--
                         down over onto Rocky Fork, I says a great and
                        effectooal doorï¿½a big barn-door; it 'peared likeï¿½is opened to me and
                        Mark Bonamy. Tanner Township is rightly Locofoco, but if you show your purty
                        face among the women folks, and I give the men a little sawder and the like,
                        you know, we'll use them up like the pilgrim fathers did the British on
                        Bunker Hill that fourth of July."
                    About sunset the two arrived at Kirtley's double cabin. Already there were
                        signs of the oncoming festivities.
                    "Hello, Old Gid," said Lathers, who knew just when familiarity was likely to
                        win, "you alive yet, you old sinner? How air you, any way? It's mighty
                        strange you an' me haint dead and done fer, after all we've been through. I
                        wish I was half as hearty as you look."
                    "Well, Major, is that air you?" grinned Kirtley. "Howdy,
                        ole coon?" and he reached out his hand. "I'm middlin' peart. Come over this
                        way to get some votes, I reckon? 'Taint no use. Dernedest set of Locos over
                        here you ever see."
                    "Oh, I know that. I tho't I'd come along and shake hands and the like with a
                        ole friend, and quarrel with you about Old Hickory, jist for fun. You always
                        hev a bottle of good whisky, and you don't kick a ole military friend
                        out-doors on account of politics and the like. Blim'd if I don't feel more
                        at home when I'm inside your door than I do in ary 'nother house in this
                        county. How's the ole woman and that doggoned purty girl of yourn? I was
                        afeard to bring Bonamy along, fer fear she'd make a fool an' the like out of
                        him. But I told him you was a pertic'ler friend of his father, the colonel,
                        and that you'd pertect him."
                    "Wall," said Kirtley, hesitating, "I wish I could make you comfortable. But
                        the folks is got a hoe-down sot fer  to-night,
                        an' you-all wont git no sleep ef you stop over here."
                    "A hoe-down!" cried Lathers, with feigned surprise. "Wal, ef I'd knowed that,
                        I'd a fixed things so as to come to-morry night, seein' as I want to have a
                        square, old-fash-ioned set-down and the like with you." Here he pulled a
                        bottle of whisky from his pocket and passed it to Kirtley. "But next to a
                        talk with you, I'd enjoy a reel with the girls, like we used to have when I
                        was a youngster." Saying this, Lathers dismounted, without giving Kirtley
                        (who was taking a strong pull at the bottle) time to object. But Mark
                        hesitated.
                    "'Light, Mr. Bonamy, 'light," said Kirtley; "ef you kin put up with us we kin
                        with you. Come right in, gentlemen, and I'll put your hosses out."
                    "Pshaw!" said Lathers, "let me put out my own. Bonamy and me knows how to
                        work jist as well as you do. You Rocky Fork folks is a little stuck-up and
                        the like, Kirtley. You don't know it, but you air. Blam'd ef you haint, now.
                        You think they haint nobody as can do real tough work an' sich like but you.
                        Now Bonamy, here, was brought up to that sort of thing, and as fer me, I was
                        rocked in gum stump."
                    The major instinctively spoke more improperly even than was his habit, in
                        addressing Kirtley and others of his kind, though Tom Lather's English was
                        bad enough at any time.
                    The old man grinned at the flattery, and Lathers passed the bottle again.
                    An hour later the dancers were assembling; the beds had been cleared out of
                        the largest room in the cabin, and the fiddlerï¿½a plump and
                        reprobate-looking manï¿½was tuning his instrument, and scratching out
                        snatches of "H-
                         Betty Martin" and "Billy in the Lowgrounds" by
                        way of testing its conditions.
                    Major Lathers went jerking and bobbing round among the guests, but Mark was
                        now the leader. Quick-witted and adroit, he delighted the young women, and
                        by shrewd flattery managed not to make the young men jealous. He ate eagerly
                        of the potatoes roasted in the ashes, which were the popular "refreshment."
                        He danced a reel awkwardly enough, but that gave him a chance to ask some of
                        the young men to explain it to him. Major Lathers knew the figure well, and
                        was so proud of it that he jerked his slender legs up and down like a puppet
                        in all the earlier dances. Bonamy might have captured half the votes on
                        Rocky Run, if there had been no Nancy Kirtley. Nancy was at first detained
                        from the room by her household cares, but it was not in Nancy's nature to
                        devote herself long to the kitchen when she had a chance to effect the
                        capture of the young man from town. About eight o'clock, when the dancing
                        had been going on an hour, and Bonamy had made a most favorable impression,
                        he observed a look of impatience on the face of the green country girl who
                        was talking with him. Turning in the direction which her eyes took, he saw
                        half-a-dozen young men gathered about a young woman whom he had not seen
                        before, and who now stood with her back to him. He asked his companion who
                        she was.
                    "Oh! that air plague-goned Nance Kirtley. All the boys makes fools of
                        theirselves over her. She likes to make a fool of a man. You better look out, ole hoss!" said she with a polite warning to
                        Mark.
                    Mark was curious to see Nancy's face, but he could not wet away from his
                        present companion without rudeness. What young lady, however, had less
                        delicacy. For when  a gawky youth, ambitious to
                        cut out the "town feller," came up with "Sal, take a reel with me?" she
                        burst into a giggle, and handed over the roast potato she had been eating to
                        Bonamy, saying, "Here, feller, hold my tater while I trot a reel with this
                        'ere hoss."
                    Taking the potato as he was bidden, Mark made use of his liberty to seek the
                        acquaintance of the belle of Rocky Fork.
                    Nancy had purposely stationed herself with her back to the stranger that she
                        might not seem to seek his favor. On his first approach she treated him
                        stiffly and paid more attention than ever to the rude jokes of her country
                        beaux, though she was in a flutter of flattered vanity from the moment in
                        which she saw him approaching. Such game did not come in her way more than
                        once.
                    Mark on his part was amazed. Such a face as hers would have been observed in
                        any company, but such a face among the poor whiteys of Rocky Fork, seemed by
                        contrast miraculous. There was no fire of intellect in it; no inward
                        conflict had made on it a single line. It was simply a combination of
                        natural symmetry, a clear, rather Oriental complexion and exuberant
                        healthfulness. Feeling there wasï¿½sensousness, vanity, and that good-nature
                        which comes of self-complacency. Nancy Kirtley was one of those magnificent
                        animals that are all the more magnificent for being only animals. It was
                        beauty of the sort that one sees sometimes among quadroonsï¿½the beauty of
                        Circassian women, perhaps,ï¿½perfect physical development, undisturbed and
                        uninformed by a soul.
                    From the moment that Mark Bonamy looked upon this uncultivated girl in her
                        new homespun and surrounded by her circle of hawbuck admirers, he began to
                        forget a'1 about the purpose of his visit to Rocky Run. Major Tom  Lathers, as he flung himself through a
                        Virginia reel with a gait much like that of a stringhalt horse, was still
                        anxiously watching Bonamy, and he mentally concluded that Mark was as sure
                        to scorch his wings as a moth that had caught sight of a candle.
                    "Will you dance the next reel with me?" Mark asked somewhat eagerly of Nancy
                        Kirtley.
                    "Must give Jim his turn first," said the crafty Nancy. "Give you the next
                        chance, Mr. Bonamy, of you keer fer it."
                    It was in vain that Mark's former companion, when she returned for her
                        half-eaten potato, sought to engage him again in conversation. He did
                        nothing but stand and wait for Nancy and look at her while she whirled
                        through the next reel as Jim McGowan's partner. In fact, everybody else did
                        much the same; all the young men declaring that she was some,
                            sartain. She danced with a perfect abandon, for
                        there is nothing a well-developed animal likes better than exercise and
                        excitement; and perfect physical equilibrium always produces a certain grace
                        of motion.
                    While Mark stood looking at Nancy, Major Lathers came and touched him on the
                        shoulder.
                    "Mark," he whispered, "if you don't take your eyes off that air creature
                        you're a gone tater, shore as shootin'. Don't you see that
                        Jim McGowan's scowlin' at you now, and if you cut him out he'll be dead
                        ag'inst you. Come, old feller, you'll git used up as bad as Julius Casar did
                        when he went down into Egypt and fell in love with Pharaoh's daughter and
                        the like, and got licked by it. Let an ole friend pull you out of the
                        bulrushes and the like. Don't you have no more to do with that girl, do ye
                        hear?"
                    "But I've promised to dance the next reel with her," pleaded Mark, feeling
                        the force of Lathers's remark and  feeling his
                        own powerlessness to resist the current upon which he was drifting.
                    "The devil you have!" cried the major. "Then you're a goner, sure enough.
                        Saltpeter wont save you. All the young men'll be ag'inst you, because you've
                        cut 'em out and sich like, and all the girls'll be down on you, because you
                        run after the purtiest one. Don't be a fool, Mark. Think of my interest as
                        well as your'n."
                    "Wait till I've had one reel," said Mark. "I'm only in for a little fun, you
                        know. Isn't she a splendid creature, Major?"
                    "Splendid! the devil!" muttered Lathers, turning away and shrewdly meditating
                        how to cut loose from Mark.
                    Mark danced his reel with Nancy, and then devoted himself to her. Having no
                        further use for Jim, she snubbed him, and Jim swore that Bonamy shouldn't
                        git a vote on the Fork. Nothing but Bonamy's excellent muscle prevented
                        McGowan's taking a more. summary revenge.
                    When at midnight the company marched out-of-doors and stationed themselves
                        around a table made of rough boards supported by stakes driven in the
                        ground, they found a rude but substantial supper of bacon and hominy,
                        corn-bread, sweet cake and apple-pies. For luxury, there was coffee in place
                        of the sassafras tea with which Rocky Fork was accustomed to regale itself,
                        and, for a wonder, the sweet'nin' was "store sugar"ï¿½of the brown New
                        Orleans varietyï¿½instead of "country," or maple molasses, such as was used
                        on ordinary occasions. The cake, however, was made with the country
                        molasses.
                    Mark, whose infatuation seemed to increase, devoted, himself at supper to his
                        Hebe, whom he would have liked better had she been entirely silent. It taxed
                        his gallantry to laugh at her awkward and bearish pleasantries.
                    
                    
                        THE HOE-DOWN AT KIRTLEY'S.
                    
                    
                    "I say, Bonamy," whispered Lathers, "ef you don't flop round into the channel
                        almighty quick, I shan't lash flat-boats weth you no longer. I'll cut mine
                        loose and swing around and leave you high and dry onto the san'-bar."
                    "I'll be a good boy after supper, Major," said Mark. Lathers saw that he was
                        hopelessly enchanted by the siren of Rocky Fork, and he proceeded
                        straightway to execute his threat. He sought out Jim McGowan, and told the
                        irate fellow how he had done his best to keep Mark from makin' a fool of
                        himself.
                    "I'll pay him back," said Jim.
                    "I know'd you would," answered Lethers.
                    "He wont get no votes on Rocky Fork," said Jim.
                    "I told him so," said the major. "He might know you'd hurt him, severe like,
                        when he comes in and spiles your game an' the like. I'll git him away first
                        thing in the mornin'. Then the girl'll find she's throw'd away her beau and
                        got nothin' but a fool an' the like for one dance. She'll come back to you
                        meeker'n Moses when the Philistines was after him. He'd orter know you could
                        keep anybody from votin' fer him here, and git Whigs to trade off somewheres
                        else. Now, for instance, ef you should git a lot of Rocky Forkers and the
                        like to trade with Whigsï¿½to say to some of my friends that ef they'd vote
                        ag'inst Mark, you-all'd vote for me or the like, you might hit a enemy and
                        do a good turn fer a friend. Besides you know I'm dead ag'inst the dog law,
                        and dog law is what Rocky Fork don't want."
                    From Jim the major proceeded to talk with "old man Kirtley," to whom he said
                        that he didn't blame Mark fer gittin' in love with sich a girl. He might do
                        worse'n to marry sich a splendid creature and the like. Fer his part he'd
                        tell Mark so in the mornin'. He also assured Mr.  Kirtley that fer his part he was dead ag'inst the dog law. Dogs an' sich
                        like was one of the things a man had a right to in a free country. Poor men
                        hadn't got many comforts, and dogs was one of 'em. The chief product of the
                        Rocky Fork region, as the major knew, was dogs.
                    Lathers then talked to the "women folks." He said he didn't think so much of
                        a purty face and sich like as he used to. What you wanted in a woman was to
                        be of sonic account; and girls too good-looking got to be
                        fools, and stuck-up like and got into trouble, like Cleopaytry, and the
                        like, you know. He also took occasion to tell the ladies of Rocky Fork that
                        he was dead ag'inst the dog law. Poor folks had as much right to dogs and
                            sich like as rich folks to sheep and sich like.
                    To the young men Tom Lathers said he didn't believe in a man dancin' with one
                        girl all the time, perticuler when he didn't mean to marry her and sich
                        like. It was scandalious. When he come to Rocky Fork ag'in he wouldn't bring
                        no town fellers and the like among. He believed in country folks himself,
                        and besides he was dead ag'inst all your dog laws and the like. Ef he got to
                        be sheriff he'd show 'em that dog laws couldn't be crammed down people's
                        throats in this county. Didn't the Declaration, which our fathers signed on
                        Bunker Hill, declare that all men was born free and equal? Wasn't a dog and
                        sich like, as good as a sheep and sich like, he'd like to
                        know; and if taxin' dogs wasn't taxation without representation, he'd jist
                        like to know what was, now you know, hey?
                    With such blandishments Lathers spent the time until the party broke up with
                        a final jig, when at length he succeeded in getting Mark away, but not until
                        after nearly all of the guests had departed.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV.
                    ELECTIONEERING.
                    "MARK," said the major, in a tone of paternal authority,
                        and after long and deliberate chewing of his quid of tobacco, "ef it hadn't
                        been for me, explaining and mollifying things and the like, you would have
                        set all Rocky Fork ag'inst you. Why, Jim McGowan was bilin' mad. You mus'n't
                        look at purty faces and the like too long, ef you mean to be a member this
                        winter. A man like you owes somethin' to himself andï¿½and his country and
                        the like, now, you know. Hey?"
                    Mark was in no mood now to receive this remonstrance. In the cool gray
                        dawning of the morning, when the excitement of the night had passed off,
                        there came to him a sense of having played the fool. A man never bears to be
                        told that he has made a fool of himself, when he knows it beforehand.
                    "Major Lathers," retorted Mark, stiffly, "I didn't bring you along for a
                        guardian. I'll have you know that I can take care of myself in this canvass.
                        If I choose to enjoy myself for a few hours dancing with a pretty girl, what
                        harm is it?"
                    "If you was to be beat, and the like, now, you know, by about six votes,
                        you'd find out that folks as dances has to pay the blackest kind of
                        nigger-fiddlers sometimes with compound interest and damages and costs, and
                        sich like, all added in and multiplied. Don't let's you and me git into no
                        squabble, nur nothin', like Cain and Abel did in  Paradise. I don't want to be no gardeen, nur the like, to no such
                        rapid-goin' youth as you. Risk's too big, you know. You've got
                        book-learnin', and you can speechify, now, you know, but fer whackin' about
                        the bushes and the likes, ole Tom Lathers is hard to git ahead of. You shoot
                        sharp at long range and off-hand. I clap my hands every time you shoot. But
                        I pick up the votes and salt 'em down fer winter use and the like. Now, I
                        think we better keep pards till election's over, anyhow. Ef you want to
                        quarrel afterward, w'y go in, that's all, and I'm on hand. I done what I
                        could to keep Rocky Fork from gittin' on a freshet last night and if you go
                        back on me now, it'll be ungrateful, and we'll both be beat all to thunder
                        and the like."
                    With these words the breach was healed for the time, but Mark was sulky all
                        that day.
                    A few days after the dance at Rocky Fork, Mark had an opportunity to retrieve
                        his fortunes by making one of his taking speeches at the Republican
                        meeting-house only a few miles away from Kirtley's, but in a neighborhood
                        much more friendly to the Whig candidate. This Republican meeting-house had
                        been built as a union church, in which all denominations were to worship by
                        turns. But, in 1840, sectarian spirit ran too high for the lion and the lamb
                        to lie down together. The Episcopal Methodists had quarreled with the
                        Radicals, or Methodist Protestants, about the use of the church on the
                        second and fourth Sundays in the month, while the Hardshells, or Anti-means
                        Baptists had attempted to drive the Regular Baptists out of the morning
                        hour, and the Two-seed Baptists and the Free-wills had complicated the
                        matter, and the New Lights and the Adventists and the Disciples were bound
                        also to assist in the fight. The result was 
                        that the benches had been carried off first by one party, then by another,
                        and there had been locks and padlocks innumerable broken from the door. So
                        that the visionary experiment of a Republican meeting-house in a country
                        where popular education was in its infancy and sectarian strife at its
                        worst, had only resulted in teaching these militant Christians the arts of
                        burglary and sacrilege. The Whigs and Democrats, however, managed to use the
                        much-damaged church for political meetings without coming to blows over it.
                        On this occasion Bonamy was to have a discussion with his opponent, the
                        Democratic candidate for representative, one Henry Hardin. But, as Hardin
                        had no gift for speech-making, while Mark had, there could be no doubt of
                        the issue.
                    The Democrats for the most part came out in surly anticipation of defeat, but
                        old Enoch Jackson, the wirepuller for the party in that part of the country,
                        shook his head significantly and gave the "boys" to understand that "he knew
                        somethin' or 'nother that would make the Whigs squirm." And it was passed
                        round from one to another that "old Nuck had somethin' in his head." So the
                        Democrats marched into the meeting with an unterrified air.
                    Mark Bonamy felt very sure of success. He was to make the last speech and
                        Major Lathers assured his Whig friends that when Hardin was through with his
                        speech, young Bonamy would chaw him all up and the like, now, you know.
                        Hardin had, however, been carefully "coached" for the occasion and he made a
                        fair argument of the heavier sort, against the National Bank, against
                        internal improvements by the general government, and especially in favor of
                        free trade, spicing his remarks, which were delivered in a loud, monotonous
                        tone, with  many appeals to the popular
                        prejudice against the Federalists, of whom, it was claimed, the Whigs were
                        lineal descendants. At proper intervals in the speech, which was of uniform
                        heaviness, Enoch Jackson would bring his heavy, well-oiled boot down upon
                        the floor, whereupon his trained partisans followed his lead with energetic
                        applause, which gave the exhausted orator time to breathe and to take a sip
                        of water, while it also served to give an appearance of vivacity to the
                        speech. But Bonamy felt himself able to brush away the effect of Hardin's
                        speech with a dozen telling hits delivered in his magnetic manner.
                    As soon, therefore, as Hardin had ceased, Mark rose and began in his most
                        conciliatory and vote-winning fashion:
                    "Fellow-citizens of Brown Township: I want to say in the beginning that it is
                        with no animosity to Democrats that I rise to address you. I hurrahed for
                        the hero of New Orleans when I was a boy. Here are the men who voted for my
                        father. I have no unfriendly feeling toward them, I assure you."
                    "You're a turn-coat," cried one of the young men. But this was what Bonamy
                        wanted. Contradiction was his foil.
                    "I am a turn-coat, am I?" he cried in a burst of indignation. "I will show
                        you whether I am a turn-coat or not. Where did I learn the principle of
                        protection? From General Jackson himself, as I will proceed to show."
                    But at this point everybody's attention was drawn to a storm of oaths coming
                        from two voices without the door.
                    "You lie, youï¿½scoundrel. I'll lick you within an inch of your life if you
                        say another word."
                    
                    The voice was Jim McGowan's, and Major Lathers, knowing at once that mischief
                        was intended, closed the door just as the other voice cried:
                    "You dassent tech me with your little finger, you cussed coward you."
                    "Fellow-citizens," resumed Mark, "I have been called a turn-coat, now
                        Iï¿½"
                    "Le' go of me," Jim McGowan was heard to say. "I kin kill Sam Peters the best
                        day he ever saw. Le' go of me, I say."
                    "Le' go of him," cried Peters. "I'll spile his pro-file fer him."
                    Within there was confusion. Only Enoch Jackson appeared entirely quiet and
                        really anxious to hear what Bonamy had to say. The rest would rather have
                        seen a fight than to have heard the best speaker in the world.
                    "I have been called a turn-coat," resumed Mark, "and I want toï¿½"
                    But here the cries out-of-doors indicated that the two had broken loose from
                        their friends and were about to have a "stand up fight." This was too much
                        for the audience. It was of no use for Mark to say "Fellowcitizens." The
                        fellow-citizens were already forming a ring around Sam Peters and Jim
                        McGowan, who, on their parts, had torn off their shirts and stood stripped
                        for the fight, which for some reason they delayed, in spite of their
                        vehement protestations of eagerness for it. Bonamy was left with no auditors
                        but Major Lathers, Enoch Jackson, who looked at him innocently, and his
                        opponent, who sat decorously waiting for him to proceed.
                    When Mark desisted from speaking, Enoch Jackson's  triumph was complete, but he set out to walk home with the gravity of a
                        statesman. Mark, however, did not give up the battle easily. He called a
                        Whig justice into the church, swore out a writ against Peters and McGowan,
                        and helped arrest them with his own hands. This prompt action saved him from
                        the ignominy of entire defeat, but it was too late to save the day. By the
                        time the participants in this sham battle had paid their fines, the day had
                        so far waned that it was impossible to rally the audience to listen to any
                        further speaking.
                    Lathers did not say anything to Mark as they rode away. Bonamy was in
                        continual expectation of a reprimand for his folly in running after "purty
                        girls and the like." But Lathers knew that Mark needed no further
                        rebuke.
                    From that time until the day of election Bonamy gave his whole heart to the
                        canvass, and his taking speeches and insinuating manners enabled him in some
                        degree to retrieve the error he had committed. It was only on the very last
                        day of that exciting campaign that he ventured to turn aside on his way home
                        and ask for a drink of water at old Gid Kirtley's fence, loitering half an
                        hour without dismounting, while Nancy Kirtley, on the other side of the
                        fence, made Mark forget her foolish talk by shifting from one attitude to
                        another so as to display face and figure to the best advantage. Only the
                        necessity for reaching Luzerne that evening in time for "the grand rally"
                        with which the canvass closed, could have persuaded the dazzled yong man to
                        cut short the interview. This he found hard of accomplishment, the
                        bewitching siren using all her endeavor to detain him. It was only by
                        sacrificing a watch-seal of no great value, upon which he saw her covetous
                        eyes fastened, that he succeeded in 
                        disentangling himself. He swore at himself half the way to Luzerne for his
                        "devilish imprudence" in giving her the trinket. But a hopeful temperament
                        brought him peace after a while, and he made a most effective appeal to the
                        Whigs at Luzerne to "rally" round the hero of Tippecanoe.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V.
                    ELECTION DAY.
                    YOU have often wondered, no doubt, why men should make a
                        business of politics. There is, of course, the love of publicity and power;
                        but, with the smaller politicians, this hardly accounts for the eagerness
                        with which they give themselves to a business so full of toil, rudeness, and
                        anxiety. I doubt not the love of combat and the love of hazard lie at the
                        root of this fascination. This playing the desperate stake of a man's
                        destiny against another man's equal risk, must be very exciting to him who
                        has the impulse and the courage of a gamester.
                    The grand rally of each party had been held in the village of Luzerne, and
                        other rallies not so grand had been rallied at all the other places in the
                        county. It was atlast the morning of the election day. Politicians awoke
                        from troubled slumbers with a start. I fancy election day must be hard on
                        the candidate; there is so little for him to do. The whippers-in are busy
                        enough, each at his place, but the candidate can only wait till night-fall.
                        And all the while he is conscious that men are observing him, ready to note
                        the slightest symptom of uneasiness. With all this, under the ballot system,
                        he must remain in entire ignorance of the state of the poll until the
                        election is concluded.
                    On that first Monday in the August of 1840, the town was thronged with people
                        by seven o'clock. The old politicians voted silently early in the morning.
                        Then came  the noisy crowd who could not vote
                        without swearing and quarreling. There were shouts for "Little "Van," and
                        cries of "Hurrah for Tippecanoe," for, though the presidential election came
                        months later, the state elections would go far toward deciding the contest
                        by the weight of their example.
                    At midday, when the crowd was greatest, old Bob Harwell, a soldier of the
                        Revolution, who had managed to live to an advanced age, by dint of
                        persistent drunkenness and general worthlessness, was drawn to the polls in
                        a carriage amid deafening cheers for the veteran, from the Whigs. The old
                        man appreciated the dramatic position. Presenting his ballot with a
                        trembling hand, he lifted his hat and swung it feebly round his head.
                    "Boys," he cried, in a quavering, mock-heroic voice, "I fit under Gineral
                        "Washi'ton, an' I voted fer him, an' now I've voted fer General Harrison"
                        (the old man believed that he had), "and if the hero of Tippecanoe is
                        elected, I want to die straight out and be the fust one to go to heaven and
                        tell Washi'ton that Gineral Harrison's elected! Hurrah!"
                    "You'll be a mighty long while a-gittin' thar, you old sinner," cried one of
                        the Democrats.
                    The old Swiss settlers and their descendants voted the Democratic ticket,
                        probably from a liking to the name of the party. It is certain that they
                        knew as little as their American fellow-citizens about the questions of
                        finance which divided the two parties. After the Revolutionary relic had
                        departed, there came an old Frenchmanï¿½one Pierre Larousseï¿½who was
                        commonly classed with the Swiss on account of his language, but who voted
                        with the Whigs.
                    "W'at for you vote the W'ig tigget, eh?" cried out  David Croissant, one of the older Swiss. "You are a turn-goat,
                        to come to Amereeky an' not pe a damograt. Sac-ï¿½-papier!
                            Entrailles de poules!"
                    
                    
                        "Sac-r-r-rï¿½! Le diable!" burst out Larousse. "You dinks
                        I is durn-goat. I dinks you lies one varee leetle pit. By gare! I nayvare pe
                        a damograt. I see 'nough of damograts. Sacr-r-rï¿½! I leef
                        in Paree. Robespierre vas a damograt. I hafe to veel of my head avairy
                        morning to see eef it vas nod shop off. I no likes your damograts. Doo much
                        plud. I likes my head zave and zound, eh? By gare! Quel sacrï¿½
                            imbecile!"
                    
                    It was with some difficulty that the Swiss Democrat and the French Whig were
                        restrained from following their stout French oaths with stouter blows.
                    With such undignified accompaniments and interludes did the American citizen
                        of that day perform the freeman's "kingliest act" of voting. The champion
                        fighter of the western end of the county cheerfully accepted "a dare" from
                        the champion fighter from the eastern end of the county, and the two went
                        outside of the corporation line, and in the shade of the beautiful poplars
                        on the riverbank pummeled each other in a friendly way until the challenger,
                        finding that his antagonist had entirely stopped respiration, was forced to
                        "hollow calf-rope," that is, to signify by gestures that he was beaten.
                    Night came, and with it more drinking, noise, and fighting, filling up the
                        time till the returns should come in. After nine o'clock, horsemen came
                        galloping in, first by one road and then by another, bringing news from
                        country precincts. On the arrival of the messenger, there was always a rush
                        of the waiting idlers to that part of the public square between the
                        court-house door and the town-pump. Here the tidings were delivered by the
                        messengers  and each party cheered in turn as
                        the news showed that the victory wavered first to one side and then to the
                        other. The Democrats became excited when they found that the county, which
                        always had been a "stronghold," might possibly be carried by the Whigs. It
                        was to them the first swash of the great opposition wave that swept the
                        followers of Jackson from their twelve years' hold on the government.
                    In the first returns, Bonamy ran a few votes ahead of his ticket, and his
                        friends were sure of his election. But with Mark there was a fearful waiting
                        for the punishment of his sins. His flirtation with Nancy Kirtley did not
                        seem half so amusing to him now that in a close election he began to see
                        that Rocky Fork might put back the fulfillment of his ambition for years.
                        Paying the fiddler is a great stimulus to the pricks of conscience.
                    When the returns from the Rocky Fork precinct were read, Mark was astonished
                        to hear that where nearly every vote was Democratic, his friend, Major
                        Lathers, had received twenty-five votes. His own vote in the same poll was
                        precisely one. This must have been cast by old Gid Kirtley. Every other man
                        in the Fork was his enemy. When the adjacent voting-places in Brown Township
                        came to be heard from through the mud-bespattered messengers who had ridden
                        their raw-boned steeds out of breath for the good of their country, Mark
                        caught a little glimpse of the adroit hand of Lathers. He had lost
                        twenty-four Whig votes to offset the twenty-five Democratic votes which
                        Lathers received. There had then been a system of "trading off." This is
                        what Lathers had been doing, while he, like a fool, had been dancing
                        attendance on "that confounded Nancy Kirtley," as he now called her in his
                        remorseful soliloquies.
                    
                    At ten o'clock the two remote townshipsï¿½York and Poseyï¿½were yet to be
                        heard from. The whole case was to be decided by them. It was still uncertain
                        whether the Whigs or the Democrats had carried the county; but there was
                        little hope that the two towns, usually Democratic, would give Whig majority
                        enough to elect Bonamy. Meantime, the crowd were discussing the returns from
                        Tanner Township. What made Bonamy fall so far behind? When the story of the
                        dance began to be circulated, there was much derision of Mark's weakness and
                        much chuckling over the shrewdness by which Major Lathers had made it serve
                        his turn. But Lathers was quite unwilling to confess that he had betrayed
                        his friend. When asked about his increased vote, he declared that "the
                        dog-law and the likes done the business."
                    As the time wore on toward eleven, the impatient crowd moved to the upper
                        part of the town, where they would intercept the messenger from York and
                        Posey. Here, under the locusts in front of a little red building used as a
                        hatter's shop, they stood awaiting the vote that was to decide the awful
                        question of the choice of six or eight petty officersï¿½a question which
                        seemed to the excited partisans one of supreme moment.
                    All at once the horse's feet are heard splashing through mud and water.
                        Everybody watches eagerly to see whether it be a Whig or a Democrat who
                        rides, for, as is the messenger, so is his message.
                    "Hurray for York and Posey!"
                    Mark, who is in the crowd, notes that it is the voice of Dan Hoover, the Whig
                        ringleader in York. The voters surround him and demand the returns, for the
                        Democrats still hope that Bonamy is beaten. But they can get but 
                        
                            "HURRAY FOR YORK AND POSEY!"
                        
                         one reply from the messenger, who swings his
                        hat and rises in his saddle to cry:
                    "Hurray for York and Posey!"
                    "Well, what about York and Posey, Hoover? We want to know," cries Mark, who
                        can bear the suspense no longer. But Hoover is crazed with whisky and can
                        give no intelligible account of the election in York and Posey. He responds
                        to every question by rising in his stirrups, swinging his hat and bellowing
                        out:
                    "Hurray for York and Posey, I say!"
                    After half an hour of futile endeavor to extract anything more definite from
                        him, Mark hit upon an expedient.
                    "I say, Dan, come over to Dixon's and get a drink, you're getting
                        hoarse."
                    This appeal touched the patriotic man. Mark got the spell of iteration broken
                        and persuaded Hoover to give him a memorandum which he carried in his pocket
                        and which read:
                    
                        "York gives 19 majority for the Whig ticket,
                        Posey gives 7 majority for the same,
                        Bonamy a little ahead of the ticket."
                    
                    This indicated Mark's election. But he did not sleep soundly until two days
                        later when the careful official count gave him a majority of thirteen.
                    With this favorable result his remorse for having cheated poor Jim McGowan
                        out of his sweetheart became sensibly less, though he laid away some maxims
                        of caution for himself, as that he must not run such risks again. He was not
                        bad, this Mark Bonamy. He was only one of those men whose character has not
                        hardened. He was like a shifting sand-bank that lay open on all sides to the
                        water;  every rise and fall or change of
                        direction in the current of influence went over him. There are men not bad
                        who may come to do very bad things from mere impressibility. He was not
                        good, but should he chance to be seized by some power strong enough to
                        master him, he might come to be good. Circumstances, provided they are
                        sufficiently severe, may even harden such negatives into fixed character,
                        either good or bad, after a while. But in Mark's present condition, full of
                        exuberant physical life and passion, with quick perceptions, a lively
                        imagination, ambitious vanity, a winning address and plenty of bonhommie, it was a sort of pitch and toss between devil and
                        guardian angel for possession.
                    Set it down to his credit that he had kept sober on this election night. His
                        victory indeed was not yet sure enough to justify a rejoicing which might
                        prove to be premature. Drunkenness, moreover, was not an inherent tendency
                        with Bonamy. If he now and then drank too much, it was not from hereditary
                        hunger for stimulant, much less from a gluttonous love of the pleasures of
                        gust. The quickened sense of his imprudence in the matter of the dance at
                        Rocky Fork had a restraining effect upon him on election day. At any rate,
                        he walked home at midnight with no other elation than that of having carried
                        the election; and even this joy was moderated by a fear that the official
                        count might yet overthrow his victory. It was while walking in this mood of
                        half-exultation that Bonamy overtook Roxy Adams and her friend Twonnet, just
                        in the shadow of the silent steam-mill.
                    "Good-evening, or good-morning, I declare I don't know which to say," he
                        laughed as he came upon them. "You haven't been waiting for election
                        returns, have you?"
                    
                    "Have you heard, Mark? are you elected?" inquired Roxy, with an eagerness
                        that flattered Bonamy.
                    "Yes, I am elected, but barely," he replied. "But what on earth are you girls
                        taking a walk at midnight for? I'll bet Roxy's been sitting up
                        somewhere?"
                    "Yes," said Twonnet, whose volatile spirits could not be damped by any
                        circumstances, "of course we've been sitting up, since we haven't gone to
                        bed. It doesn't take a member of the legislature to tell that, Honorable Mr.
                        Bonamy."
                    This sort of banter from his old school-mate was very agreeable. Mark liked
                        to have his new dignity aired even in jest, and in a western village where a
                        native is never quite able to shed his Christian name, such freedoms are
                        always enjoyed.
                    "But where have you been?" asked Mark, as he walked along with them.
                    "Up at Haz Kirtley's. His baby died about an hour ago," said Roxy, "and I
                        sent for Twonnet to tell them how to make a shroud. She understands such
                        things, you know."
                    "That's just what I am good for," put in Twonnet, "I never thought of that
                        before. I knew that nothing was made in vain. There ought to be one woman in
                        a town that knows how to make shrouds for dead people. That's me. But
                        Roxyï¿½I'll tell you what she's good for," continued the enthusiastic Swiss
                        girl with great vivacity; "she keeps people out of shrouds. I might put up a
                        sign, Mark, and let it read: 'Antoinette Lefaure, Shroudmaker.' How does
                        that sound?"
                    "Strangers never would believe that you were the person meant," said Mark.
                        "One sight of your face would make them think you had never seen a corpse.
                        Besides,  you couldn't keep from laughing at a
                        funeral, Twonnet, you know you couldn't."
                    "I know it," she said, and her clear laugh burst forth at the thought. "I
                        giggled to-night right over that poor dead baby, and I could 'a' whipped
                        myself for it, too. You see, Haz Kirtley's sister was there. Haz is ignorant
                        enough, but his sisterï¿½oh my!" and Twonnet paused to laugh again.
                    "Oh, don't, Twonnetï¿½don't laugh so," said Roxy. "I declare I can't get over
                        that poor child's sufferings and its mother's scream when she saw it was
                        dead. I used to think low people of that sort hadn't much feeling, but they
                        have. That sister of Haz's is an ignorant girl, and I don't like her much,
                        but she is beautiful."
                    "She's the prettiest creature I ever saw," said Twonnet. "But when she looked
                        at me so solemnly out of her large, bright eyes and told me that she knew
                        that the baby must die, 'bekase the screech-owl hollered and the dog kep' up
                        sich a yowlin' the livelong night,' I thought I'd
                        die."
                    Mark could make but little reply to this. He had not thought of any kinship
                        between Haz Kirtley, the drayman, and Nancy Kirtley a dozen miles away on
                        Rocky Fork. Had Nancy come into town to-day to be his Nemesis? He heartily
                        wished he had never seen her. Without suspecting the true state of the case,
                        Twonnet was seized with an uncontrollable impulse to tease.
                    "By the way, Mark," she began again, "while I was cutting out the shroud,
                        Nancy Kirtley told me in confidence that she knew you well. She spoke of you
                        as though you were a very particular friend, indeed."
                    "A candidate has to be everybody's very particular friend," said Mark, in a
                        tone of annoyance, thinking of the seal he had given away the day
                        before.
                    
                    "She said you couldn't trot a reel very well, though," persisted Twonnet.
                        "She claims to have danced with you all night, and she ought to know."
                    "Pshaw!" said Mark, "What a yarn!"
                    The evident vexation of Bonamy delighted Twonnet.
                    "Poor old Mr. White!" interrupted Roxy, who wished to make a diversion in
                        Mark's favor. "There's his candle burning yet. They say he hasn't been able
                        to sleep without it for thirty years. It must be an awful thing to have such
                        a conscience."
                    Something in Mark's mood made him feel in an unreasonable way that this
                        allusion to Mr. White's conscience was a thrust at himself. White was an old
                        man who had shot and killed a man in a street affray, many years before,
                        when the territory of Indiana was yet new and lawless, but the old man from
                        that day had never slept without a light in his room.
                    They had now reached the little gate in the paling fence in front of Twonnet
                        Lefaure's home, and Mark was glad to bid the vivacious tease good-night, and
                        to walk on with Roxy, whose house lay a little further away in the direction
                        of his own home. Now that Twonnet was out of sight his complacency had
                        returned; but he was quite in the mood to-night to wish to live better, and
                        he confided to Roxy his purpose to "turn over a new leaf," the more readily
                        since he knew that she would cordially approve it, and approval was what he
                        craved now more than anything else.
                    Besides, Roxy was the saint of the town. In a village nobody has to wait long
                        to find a "mission." He who can do anything well is straightway recognized,
                        and his vocations are numerous. The woman who has a genius for dress is
                        forthwith called in consultation at all those 
                        critical life-and-death moments when dresses are to be made for a wedding,
                        an infare, or a funeral. And the other woman whose touch is tender,
                        magnetic, and life-giving, is asked to "set up" with the sick in all
                        critical cases. Such was Roxy Adams. The gift of helpfulness was born in
                        her; and to possess the gift of helpfulness is to be mortgaged to all who
                        need.
                    That night Roxy climbed the steep stairs to her room, and went to bed without
                        writing in her diary. When one's heart is full, one is not apt to drop a
                        plummet line into it; and now Roxy was happy in the reaction which
                        helpfulness bringsï¿½for an angel can never make other people as happy as
                        the angel is. And she was pleased that Mark had carried the election, and
                        pleased to think that perhaps she had "dropped a word in season" that might
                        do him good.
                    And while the innocent-hearted girl was praying for him, Mark was inwardly
                        cursing the day he had met Nancy Kirtley, and resolving to cut her
                        acquaintance, by degrees.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI.
                    A GENRE PIECE.
                    WHITTAKER was one of those people who take offense
                        gradually. Adams's rude remarks about preachers had rankled in him. The
                        first day after he made up his mind that it was offensive. In two or three
                        days he concluded that he would not visit the keen-witted but aggressive
                        shoe-maker again until some apology should be made. By the time the election
                        was over he doubted whether he ought to greet Mr. Adams on the street if he
                        should chance to meet him. At least he would let his crusty friend make the
                        first advance.
                    Now Adams was penitent for his rudeness even while he was being rude; it was
                        an involuntary ferocity. He had regretted the words before he uttered them.
                        He knew that he ought to apologize, but he must do even that by contraries.
                        Meeting the minister one afternoon, right at the town pump, he stationed
                        himself so as to block Whittaker's path, bowed, smiled grimly, and then came
                        out with:
                    "Mr. Whittaker, you and I had some sharp words in our discussion about good
                        old Henry VIII., the last time you were at my house. You haven't been there
                        since, and you haven't been in the shop, either. It occurs to me that may be
                        you said something on that occasion for which you would like to apologize.
                        If so, you now have an opportunity."
                    
                    This was said with such droll, mock-earnestness, that Whittaker could not but
                        laugh.
                    "Of course I will apologize, Mr. Adams," he said, not without emphasis on the
                        pronoun.
                    "And I," said the other, lifting himself up as if to represent the height of
                        his own magnanimityï¿½"and I will freely forgive you. Come and see me
                        to-night. I haven't had a human soul to quarrel with since you were there
                        before, except Roxy, and she won't quarrel back worth a cent. Now the old
                        score's wiped out and we've settled Bluebeard and his wives, come 'round
                        to-night and abuse me about something else."
                    "I'll come this very evening," said Whittaker.
                    "Now?"
                    "No; this evening."
                    "Oh! you're a confirmed Yankee," said Adams. "Why, it's evening now. After
                        supper we call it night. Come, let's reconcile the confusion of tongues.
                        Come to supper. I suppose you call it tea. Come, we'll teach you English if
                        you live in these wild heathen parts long. Now I've made up, I am aching to
                        quarrel, I tell you."
                    Mr. Whittaker made some feeble resistance. But the village society was so
                        insipid that he found in himself a yearning for the stimulant conversation
                        of the paradoxical Adams. It was a relief to talk with somebody who did not
                        give an ex officio deference to a minister's opinion.
                        Perhaps there was an unconscious inclination to see Roxy again, but this did
                        not come into the category of admitted reasons for eating supper with the
                        shoe-maker.
                    When Roxy saw Mr. Whittaker coming home with her father, she put hat upon the
                        reluctant Bobo and sent him home. Then she began to "fly around," as the
                        western phrase is, to get a supper "fit for a preacher." If Mr.  Whittaker had been observant of trifles he
                        might have foretold the character of the supper, for the "company supper,"
                        among the better families in a western town did not vary much. There was
                        commonly fried chicken in a rich gravy made with cream; there was strong
                        coffee with plenty of loaf-sugar and cream; there might be "preserves" of
                        apple, or peach, or quince, of a tempting transparency, and smothered with
                        cream; and then there were generally hot biscuits of snowy whiteness, or
                        some of those wonderful "corn batter-cakes," which dwellers north of the
                        great corn belt have never tasted. Western housekeepers are all Marthas.
                        They feel obliged to "put themselves about," as the Scotch say, when they
                        have company. And so Roxy got out the old china tea-pot and sugar-bowl which
                        had come down from her grandmother, divers parts of handles, lids, and
                        spouts having suffered those accidents which china is heir to, and been
                        judiciously mended with cement. There were yet three tea-cups and two
                        saucers of the old set left. The cups had dainty handles and were striped
                        and flowered with gilt. She served the two saucers to her guest and her
                        father, while she was forced to use a china cup with a saucer which did not
                        match. I may add in digression that table manners were not the same then and
                        there as now and here. Then one must not drink from the cup, but only from
                        the saucer, into which the coffee was poured to cool. Such loose food as
                        could not be eaten with an old-fashioned steel fork with two tines was
                        gracefully and daintily shoveled into the mouth with the knife, but it was
                            de rigeur that the knife should be presented with the
                        back towards the lips.
                    Supper over, the minister and the shoe-maker fell into a dispute, of course,
                        and as Whittaker persisted in exasperating Adams by his politeness, and
                        especially by his down-east  interrogative of
                        "What say?" when he did not comprehend the drift of his companion's remark,
                        the rudeness of the shoe-maker might have grown as pronounced as it had been
                        before, if a kindly chance had not made a break in the talk. Old Tom
                        Robertsï¿½or, as the people would pronounce it, "Robberds"ï¿½had brought a
                        load of unpressed hay to town, and having stood all day upon the street
                        without finding a purchaser, had resolved in sheer despair to make a virtue
                        of a necessity, and get rid of his hay by paying a long-standing debt for a
                        pair of boots. The opportunity to collect such a debt was not to be missed,
                        and Adams found it necessary to forego the company of his guest while he
                        should stow away the hay in the mow, as Roberts pitched it off the
                        wagon.
                    But Roxy, to make amends for her father's absence, hurried through with her
                        work, and when she had cleared away the "supper things," sat down in the
                        sitting-room. There was an old-fashioned fire-place stuffed full of great
                        green asparagus bushes now, to hide its black walls. Above was the
                        mantel-piece, over which hung a common print of "Washington crossing the
                        Delaware." In one corner stood the tall clock, whose loud, slow, steady,
                        sixty beats to the minute was typical of the way in which time passed in
                        those unprogressive days. There is a characteristic pertness and
                        unsteadiness about the ticking of clocks nowadaysï¿½sharp-set, jerky things,
                        with brass inside.
                    Roxy lit a candle and set it upon the round center-table of cherry-wood which
                        stood in the middle of the room, the floor of which was covered with bright
                        new rag-carpet; and then, while Whittaker sat in the red, gilt-striped,
                        rocking arm-chair, she sat upon a straight-back, splint-bottom rocker
                        swaying herself gently to and fro as she knitted and talked. A malediction
                        on the evil genius who invented knitting- 
                        machines! There never was any accompaniment to talk like the click of
                        knitting-needles. The employment of the fingers gives relief from all
                        nervousness, gives excuse for all silence, gives occasion for droopings of
                        the eyes, while it does not in fact preoccupy the mind at all. And then let
                        us forever maintain with sweet Charles Lamb, that there is no light like
                        candle-light; it gives the mixed light and shadow so much prized by the old
                        painters. Indeed, Roxy looked like a figure out of an ancient picture, as
                        she sat there with the high lights brought out by the soft illumination of
                        the candle, and with her background of visible obscurity. Hers was not what
                        you would call a handsome face, in the physical sense. There was no sensuous
                        beauty of red lips and softly rounded cheeks. But it was indeed a very
                        extraordinary face, full of passionate ideality, and with high enthusiasms
                        shining through it. I have seen an emblematic face in an illuminated title
                        to the Gospel of Matthew that was full of a quiet, heavenly joy, as though
                        there were good tidings within, ever waiting to be told. This pure gladness
                        there was in Roxy as she looked up now and then from her knitting. It was
                        such a face as a master would have loved to paint, and would have worshipped
                        after he had painted it. So it seemed to Whittaker, as he sat on one side of
                        the table trying to guess which it was of all the saints he had seen in old
                        prints that she was like. His eye took in the mantel-piece and the old clock
                        in the corner, almost lost in the shadow, and, though he was not an artist,
                        the sentiment of the picture moved him deeply.
                    Like most men who have lived bookish lives, Whittaker thought it needful to
                        adapt his speech to the feminine understanding. He began talking to Roxy of
                        her father, her garden, her chickens, her friends; but to all of his  remarks or inquiries upon these subjects Roxy
                        answered half absently. The minister was puzzled by this, and while he
                        debated what course was best, the conversation flagged and an awkward
                        silence ensued, which was presently broken by Roxy asking him what he
                        thought of the experiences of President Edwards's wife.
                    Mr. Whittaker started a little. What did a village girl and a Methodist at
                        that, know of the experiences of Jonathan Edwards's wife? This then was the
                        ground on which she was to meet himï¿½not chickens, or garden, or girls, or
                        beans! From the experiences of Mrs. Edwards Roxy passed to the saints in the
                        Methodist calendarï¿½to Mrs. Fletcher, the lady preacher, to Mrs. Hester Ann
                        Rogers, who accepted banishment to her mother's kitchen as a penalty for her
                        piety, and thence to Lady Huntington, who was better known to Whittaker. The
                        minister listened with wonder as her face glowed with sympathetic enthusiasm
                        and thought he detected the latent ambition to be such a saint as these. He
                        was a New Englander, and the training of a quieter school of religion had
                        its place with him, but all the more did he wonder at finding in the heart
                        of this imaginative girl an altar on which was burning so bright a flame of
                        mystical devotion. He noticed that in that face illuminated from within,
                        there was something about the set of the lip that indicated a great
                        endurance of purpose. This mysticism might come to be more than a
                        sentiment.
                    Mr. Adams came back again after a while and started a discussion on the
                        merits of Napoleon Bonaparte, in which Mr. Whittaker ought to have been much
                        interested. But somehow he did not now care anything about the justice or
                        injustice of the execution of the Due d'Enghien, and all the rasping
                        paradoxes which the contradictory  shoe-maker
                        could put forth failed to arouse in him any spirit of contradiction. For
                        Roxy had by this time put down her knitting and was passing in and out of
                        the room attending to her household duties, and the preacher had come to
                        feel that somehow the red-and-yellow, striped ragcarpet, and the old clock
                        and the splint-bottom chairs were made lovely by her presence. He watched
                        her as she came in and went out, and wondered as he had often wondered
                        before at that look of gladness in her face. He heard Mr. Adams say
                        something about Bonaparte's being the one man in modern times who understood
                        that the people needed to be governed. But what did he care for Bonaparte,
                        or for modern times? Here was a saintï¿½a very flesh and blood saint. A
                        plague on all Bonapartes and garrulous shoe-makers!
                    And so the conversation lagged. The preacher was dull. He fell to agreeing in
                        an imbecile fashion with everything Adams said. The latter, in sheer
                        despair, vehemently asserted that Napoleon did right to divorce Josephine,
                        to which Mr. Whittaker agreed, not awaking from his absent mood until he saw
                        the look of surprise in Roxy's face. Then he stammered:
                    "Oh, I didn't know; what was I saying? What was your remark? I'm afraid I did
                        not understand it. I thought you said Bonaparte did right to marry
                        Josephine."
                    "No; to divorce her," said Adams. "You are not well to-night?"
                    "No, not veryï¿½pretty well though for me; but excuse me, I didn't mean to
                        agree with you about divorce. I think Bonaparte showed himself an atrocious
                        scoundrel in that whole affair."
                    "Oh, you do, do you?" cried the other, pleased that he had at last started
                        the game from cover. But when he  ended a new
                        enlogy upon Bonaparte and divorce, and waited for another reply, Mr.
                        Whittaker was engaged in comparing a silhouette portrait of Roxy's mother
                        which hung near the clock, with the profile of Roxy, who stood at the window
                        looking under the half-raised curtain at the crescent moon bravely sailing
                        its little boat through a blue sea beset with great, white, cloud-bergs
                        against which it seemed ever about to go to wreck. When Mr. Adams found that
                        his companion was not in the least interested in that "splendid prodigy"
                        which had "towered among us wrapped in the solitude of his own originality,"
                        he gave up in despair and waited in the vain hope that the other would start
                        something which might offer a better chance for contradiction. The minister,
                        feeling embarrassed by his own inattentiveness, soon excused himself and
                        bade Roxy and her father good-night. Once out of the house he strolled
                        absently through the common, then back into the town, under the shadow of
                        the trees, to his home in the house of Twonnet Lefaure's father.
                    The Swiss in that day held rigidly to Presbyterianismï¿½that is to say, the
                        few who were religious at all, attended the Presbyterian church. While they
                        held it to be a deep and eternal disgrace for a Swiss to be anything but a
                        Presbyterian, most of them, like Twonnet's father, did not much like a
                        Presbyterianism which forbade them to hunt and fish on Sunday or to drink
                        good wine. It was not so in the old country they declared.
                    But Twonnet's mother was a Presbyterian truly devout, and the minister had
                        sought board in a Swiss family that he might improve his French
                        pronunciation. Mrs. Lefaure let him in on this evening with a cordial "Bon soir," and a volley of inquiries beginning with "I'ourquoi," and relating to his reasons for not telling
                        them that he was  going out to tea. But when
                        she saw by the minister's puzzled look that he only half understood her
                        rapidly spoken French, she broke into a good-natured, laugh and began to
                        talk in English with real Swiss volubility and vivacity. Whittaker answered
                        as best he could in his absent frame of mind, and soon managed to evade the
                        hail-storm of the good woman's loquacity by bidding the family good night
                        and ascending to his room. He essayed, like a faithful and regular man that
                        he was, to read a chapter in the Bible before going to bed, but he sat near
                        the west window and kept looking off the book, at the moon now swimming low
                        through the cloud-breakers near the western horizon. And he wondered what
                        Roxy could have been thinking of when she was looking at the sky. He gave up
                        the book presently and knit his brow. It was not love but finance that
                        engaged his thought. How might an honorable man marry while his salary
                        consisted chiefly of a pittance of two hundred dollars a year which the Home
                        Missionary Society allowed him as a stipend for founding a feeble
                        Presbyterian church in a village already blessed with a Baptist church and a
                        Methodistï¿½and that when the young man owed a debt of five hundred dollars
                        incurred in getting his education, toward the liquidation of which he could
                        manage now to put by just twenty-five dollars a year? This question puzzled
                        him and rendered him abstracted while he was at his prayers; it kept him
                        awake until long, long after the moon's shallop had made safe harbor behind
                        the hills.
                    Roxy was not kept awake: she only delayed long enough to read her Bible and
                        pray and to enter in her diary:
                    "Had a very refreshing conversation this evening with Mr. Whittaker about the
                        remarkable experiences of Mrs. Edwards, and the holy lives of Lady
                        Huntington,  Mrs. Rogers and Mrs. Fletcher. Oh,
                        that the Lord would prepare me to do and suffer for Him in the same
                        spirit!"
                    The outer form of this entry was borrowed no doubt from the biographies she
                        read. But the spirit was Roxy's own.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII.
                    TWONNET.
                    MR. WHITTAKER carefully abstained from
                        going often to Mr. Adams's after the evening of his conversation with Roxy.
                        For at the breakfast table next morning Twonnet had turned the conversation
                        to her friend. She spoke seriouslyï¿½as seriously as she
                        couldï¿½but there was mischief lurking in the twinkle of her black eyes as
                        she praised Roxy and watched the minister's face, which was paler than usual
                        this morning. Her Swiss tongue must go about something, and nothing excited
                        her enthusiasm more than the virtues of Roxy Adams.
                    "She's perfection," said Twonnet with moderation, "She's just perfection, Mr.
                        Whittaker, and nothing less."
                    "She seems a very nice girl indeed," said the minister guardedly; but his
                        reserve only amused Twonnet all the more, for now she laughed that clear,
                        ringing laugh that is characteristic of Swiss girls; while every brown curl
                        on her head shook.
                    "Qu'as-tu?" said her father, reproachfully.
                    "Oh, let her laugh, Mr. Lefaure," said Whittaker; "Twonnet's fun is always
                        good-natured; but to save my life I couldn't tell what she is laughing
                        at"
                    "Because you said that Roxy was a very nice person, Mr. Whittaker. You could
                        almost say that of me now, and I am nobody along side of Roxy; nobody but
                        aï¿½"
                    "A giggler," said the mother with a quiet chuckle, the wrinkles about the
                        corners of her eyes showing plainly  that she
                        had been what Twonnet was then. For a hearty chuckle is the old age of a
                        giggle.
                    "I tell you what, Mr. Whittaker," said Twonnet, sipping her coffee and
                        looking at the minister under her eyebrows, "Roxy is the kind of a person
                        that people put in books. Saint Roxy, how would that
                        sound?" This last was half soliloquy. "Roxy is the kind of person that would
                        feel obliged to anybody who would give her a chance to be a martyr."
                    "Toinette," said the father, shaking his head, "tais-toi!" He was annoyed now because the younger
                        children, seeing that Twonnet meant mischief, began to laugh.
                    "I'm not saying any harm," replied the daring girl, with roguish solemnity.
                        "I only said that Roxy would like to be a martyr, and you think I mean that
                        she would even marry a minister. I didn't say that."
                    The children tittered. Whittaker's pale face reddened a little, and he
                        laughed heartily; but this time the father frowned and stamped his foot in
                        emphasis of his sharp "Tais-toi, Toinette, je te dis!"
                    Twonnet knew by many experiments the precise limit of safe disobedience to
                        her father. There was an implied threat in his "Je te
                        dis," and she now reddened and grew silent with a look of injured
                        innocence.
                    If Twonnet had had a lurking purpose to promote the acquaintance between
                        Whittaker and Roxy Adams, she had defeated herself by her suggestion, for
                        Whittaker hardly went near the old hewed-log house again in months. His
                        foible was his honor, and one in his situation could not think of marriage,
                        and, as he reasoned, ought not to make talk which might injure Roxy's
                        interests if not his own. Twonnet was disappointed, and with her
                        disappointment there was a lugubrious feeling that she had made a  mistake. She said no more about Roxy, but she
                        continued to tease the minister gently about other things, just because it
                        was her nature to tease. Once Whittaker had tried to talk with her, as
                        became his calling, about religion; but she could not help giving him droll
                        replies which made his gravity unsteady, and brought the interview to a
                        premature close.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII.
                    THE REVIVAL.
                    THERE was a revival in the town. Do you know what that
                        means? In a country village, where most of the time there is a stagnation
                        even in gossip, where a wedding of any sort is a capital event, where a
                        funeral is of universal interest, and where even a birth is matter of common
                        talk, it isï¿½all moral aspects of the case asideï¿½a great thing to have a
                        hurricane of excitement sweep over the still waters of the little pool.
                        Every one of the fifteen hundred people in the little town knew that there
                        was a revival "going on." Every one of them carried in his head each day a
                        list of those who had "been to the mourner's bench" the night before, and of
                        those who were converted; and everybody knew who had shouted or "taken on"
                        in any way at the meetings. Forlorn groups of young men who looked as though
                        the day of judgment were surely come, stood upon the street corners and
                        discussed the fact that Bill Works had "gone forward" the evening before.
                        Some thought he wouldn't "hold out long." But the morning after old Tom
                        Walters "got religion," the town was convulsed with excitement. He was a
                        notorious drunkard, and when he was converted there did seem something
                        supernaturally awful about it. To see Tom sober was like seeing a dead man
                        alive. Few were living now who could remember when Walters had been entirely
                        sober before. There was many a man ready to assure you that he'd "seen a
                        good many of these roaring  excitements in his
                        time," and that they "all died down afore hay-harvest," and "old Tom Walters
                        would be drunker'n ever, time the corn crop was laid by." And yet, and yet,
                        all this spoken in a voice a little tremulous did have an air of grave-yard
                        whistling.
                    There were the scoffers, however, who laughed and who banded together to
                        laugh. The best man among them was Ben Thomas, who laughed in the preacher's
                        face, when he was going through the congregation exhorting. The preacher, a
                        slender Boanerges, had rebuked him from the pulpit, and this had given Ben a
                        still greater prominence among his fellows. But when two of Ben's cronies,
                        after a fiery and prophet-like denunciation from the preacher, became
                        frightened, and came cowed and bellowing to the "mourner's bench," even
                        Ben's voice grew a little tremulous as he saw himself the forlorn hope of
                        the opposition. But all the thunders of the preacher could not bring him
                        down. He was too much flattered by his unique position. It was better to be
                        the devil than to be nobody in particular, and Ben would have faced
                        perdition itself for the sake of gratifying his love of bravado.
                    All this storm was raised by the new Methodist preacher, a man who had been a
                        mechanic until religion seized upon his enthusiastic spirit. Since that time
                        he had been a blazing torch of religious excitement, sweeping like a prairie
                        fire over every region to which the conference had assigned him. In the
                        autumn, after the August election, he had been sent to Luzerne. In November,
                        General Harrison and his log-cabin were elected to the presidency. Now, the
                        ebb tide of political or financial excitement often ends in becoming a flood
                        tide of religious excitement. It is a resolution of force, not easily
                        accounted for,  but very easily seen. So that
                        Mr. Dale's revival took on proportions surprising even to his faith and
                        enterprise.
                    Mr. Whittaker was a New Englander, and to him this revival was something
                        appalling. Not that he did not believe in revivals; but he believed in
                        revivals like Dr. Payson's and Jonathan Edwards'sï¿½of the quiet, awful, and
                        pervasive kind, which would not have been possible among the inflammable
                        people on the Ohio in the last generation. Mr. Whittaker, believing that
                        some good must be done in spite of the "wild-fire" thought it no more than
                        right that he should attend the Methodist meetings. He could not do this in
                        any spirit of patronage as he might have done in New England, for here the
                        Methodists were more than half the town. Still he could not but feel that it
                        would be a condescension for a college-bred man like himself to lend his
                        countenance to these people whose minister had laid down his hatter's bow to
                        become a preacher on an education consisting chiefly of a reading of
                        Wesley's Sermons and Clarke's Commentary. He went one evening and did his
                        best to get into sympathy with the meeting, but the loud praying, the
                        constant interruptions of responsive "Amens" and other ejaculatory cries,
                        the kneeling mourners weeping and sobbing, fifty at a time, in the space
                        around the pulpit, the public prayer offered by women, the pathetic melodies
                        and choruses, the occasional shoutingï¿½these and a hundred other things
                        offended his prejudices and grated on his sense of propriety. He wondered
                        how Roxy could seem oblivious to the din about her as she moved among the
                        penitents on the women's side of the house, to comfort whom was her special
                        vocation. He saw how everybody loved her, how the gladness of her face
                        seemed to mollify the terribleness of Dale's flery preaching. It happened
                             to be the very night of old Tom Walter's
                        "start," and Whittaker saw that after the old man had wept and cried, lyin
                        prone upon the floor during the whole evening, he seemed not a little
                        cheered by the words which sister Roxy spoke to him at the close of the
                        meeting; not by the words perhaps, but by the radiant face and hopeful
                        tone.
                    But Whittaker did not go again. How could he? To him this religious
                        intoxication was profanation, and he wrote a strong letter to the Home
                        Missionary Society setting forth the "wild and semi-barbarous character" of
                        many of the religious services at the West, and urging the importance of
                        sending men to plant "an intelligent and thoughtful Christianity" in its
                        place. This was because he was an exotic. The religion which he despised was
                        indigenous. A better and more thoughtful Christianity has grown as the
                        people have grown thoughtful. But it has developed on the ground. It is not
                        chiefly New England thoughtfulness, but the home growth of Western
                        intelligence that has done it.
                    But though Whittaker washed his hands of this ranting revivalism he wished
                        that he were free to dislike it wholly. Tom Walters, he reflected, would no
                        doubt slip back into the mire as soon as the excitement was over, but in all
                        this ingathering there must be some good grain. And so he found himself in
                        that state which is least comfortable of allï¿½his sympathy dividing the
                        ground with his antipathy. And such is the solidarity of people in a village
                        that an excitement of this sort is sure to affect everybody, sooner or
                        later. Whittaker soon saw in his own congregation an unusual solemnity. He
                        was unwilling to admit that the Methodist revival had influenced him, but he
                        found himself appealing more earnestly than ever to his  few hearers to become religions. He found himself expecting
                        something. What to do he did not know. At last he appointed an "Inquiry
                        Meeting" at the close of his Sunday evening service. Just one person
                        remained as an "inquirer." To Mr. Whittaker's amazement this was Twonnet.
                        There were others a week later, but that the first should be the volatile
                        Twonnet, whose gay banter and chaffer had made him afraid to speak to her
                        seriously, quite upset him. After the inquiry meeting was over and he had
                        seated himself alone in the little parlor at Mr. Lefaure's, where a
                        melancholy ticking was kept up by an old Swiss clock screwed to the wall,
                        with its weights and pendulum hanging exposed below, he looked into the
                        blazing fire on the hearth and wondered how it was that Twonnet, who, at
                        supper that very evening, had been as gay as ever, should have suddenly
                        remained to an inquiry meeting. He tried to think what there was unusual in
                        his sermon that might have impressed her.
                    Just then the brass knob of the door was turned hesitantly, the old-fashioned
                        latch, big at one end and little at the other, was raised with a snap, and
                        the door was opened a little way by Twonnet, who immediately began to close
                        it irresolutely.
                    "Come in, Twonnet," said the minister gravely.
                    Thus reassured, Twonnet entered, took up the broom mechanically and swept the
                        ashes on the hearth into the fire-place, set the broom down and stood
                        haltingly by the fire.
                    "Sit down, Twonnet," said Whittaker gently, as though he were addressing a
                        little child. "How long have you been thinking seriously about becoming a
                        Christian?"
                    "Ever since I can remember."
                    
                    "Yes, yes, but lately."
                    "All the time." Then after a pause, "I would like to be as good as Roxy, but
                        I can't. I can't be serious long at a time, I'll be laughing and teasing
                        somebody to-morrow, I suppose. That's the reason I haven't tried before. I
                        can't be much of a Christian anyhow."
                    "But divine grace can help you," said Whittaker, using the form of words to
                        which he had always been accustomed.
                    "But divine grace won't make me somebody else, will it? It won't make me like
                        to look inside as Roxy does, and to keep diaries and all that. It won't make
                        me want to be a martyr as she does, I'm sure. I'll never be good all over.
                        It doesn't seem to make other people all alike, and I suppose I'll be the
                        same giddy-headed Twonnet, as long as I live, and father will have to keep
                        shaking his head and saying, 'ais-toi, Toinette,' in that
                        awful way, forever. If I ever get to heaven, I'll laugh one minute and get
                        mad the next," and at this she laughed in her sudden mercurial fashion.
                    The minister was silent. He was afraid to say anything that might discourage
                        her. There was not a trace of cant or mimicry in her piety. But, on the
                        other hand, it seemed to him that there was a strange lack of the
                        seriousness which he had always been taught was the first step of a
                        Christian life. The cool Saxon New Englander was trying to apply Puritan
                        rules to one of a different race.
                    "But I thought," Continued Twonnet, gravely, "that, if I couldn't be as good
                        as I wanted to, I would just try to be as good as I could." And here she
                        began to shed tears. "I thought that was the common-sense way. I've got a
                        temperï¿½all of us Swiss have. But then we don't  stay mad, and that's a good thing." Here she laughed again. "Any way, I'm
                        going to do my best."
                    Mr. Whittaker thought it safe to approve of this last resolution, though the
                        girl was a puzzle to him. This certainly was not an experience according to
                        the common standard. He could not dissect it and label its parts with the
                        approved scientific names.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX.
                    THE MEMBER FROM LUZERNE.
                    DURING this revival regret was often expressed, that Mark
                        Bonamy was absent. If he were at home he might be converted, and his
                        conversion would tell upon the other young men of the town. And then he
                        might come to be a preacher. What a preacher he would make! He would
                        doubtless become a famous presiding elder like John Strange or Allen Wiley.
                        He might some day get to be a great bishop like Elijah Hedding. But he was
                        away attending the session of the legislature. None regretted this more than
                        his mother, a devout Methodist, who prayed day and night that the son who
                        "had wandered into paths of worldly pleasure and ambition" might be "led to
                        ground the arms of his rebellion and enlist under the banner of the
                        cross."
                    As for Mark, his ambition seemed in a fair way to be gratified. For the first
                        time the state government was in the control of the Whigs. He had happened
                        to change just in time to come in on the rising wave, and all Luzerne
                        recognized him now as destined to become a distinguished citizen. Some days
                        before the time for the legislature to meet, Mark buckled on his leggings,
                        packed his saddle-bags, and mounted his horse. He rode for four days through
                        thick yellow clay, soft enough to let his horse sink down one or two feet at
                        nearly every step, arriving late in the evening of the fourth day at
                        Indianapolis, a straggling muddy village in a heavily wooded  morass. The newly projected capital had been
                        laid off with true Hoosier magnificence and hopefulness. The grovernor's
                        houseï¿½remarkable for a homely bigness and a dirty colorï¿½stood in the
                        middle, surrounded by a circular street which left his excellency's family
                        no back yardï¿½all sides were front. Around this focus most of the new
                        wooden churches were built, so that the people going to meeting might
                        inspect the governor's wood-pile and count the inmates of his chicken-coop,
                        whose death-warrants had not yet been signed. Outside of the "circle" the
                        city was laid off with nice rectangularity, except that four great diagonal
                        avenues running from the center gave the town, on the map, the appearance of
                        a blazing sun in a cheap picture. Nowadays, when more than a hundred
                        thousand people have filled up this radiant outline with many costly
                        buildings, and when the unsightly "governor's mansion" having ceased to
                        exist, no longer presents its back door to the Episcopal church, the
                        beautiful Hoosier metropolis has justified the hopes of its projectors. But
                        in Bonamy's time the stumps stood in the streets; the mud was only navigable
                        to a man on a tall horse; the buildings were ugly and unpainted; the people
                        were raw immigrants dressed in butternut jeans, and for the most part
                        afflicted either with the "agur" or the "yaller janders"; the taverns were
                        new wooden buildings with swinging signs that creaked in the wind, their
                        floors being well coated with a yellow adobe from the boots of the guests.
                        The alkaline biscuits on the table were yellow like the floors; the fried
                        "middling" looked much the same, the general yellowness had extended to the
                        walls and the bed-clothing, and combined with the butternut jeans and
                        copperas-dyed linsey-woolsey of the clothes, it gave the universe an air of
                        having the jaundice.
                    
                    It is quite depressing to a man who has been the great man of his town, and
                        who has been duly commissioned to some deliberative body, to find that all
                        his fellow-members consider themselves the central objects of interest. Mark
                        was neglected at first by all except those members who wanted to get state
                        roads or other projects of local interest carried through the house. He was
                        only "the young fellow from Luzerne." Nevertheless, after he had made his
                        maiden speech on the necessity for internal improvements by the general
                        government, he was more highly esteemed. A young man with so telling a style
                        of declamation was not to be slighted. A shrewd old member nodded to his
                        neighbor as Mark sat down at the close of his effort, and said, "Congress
                        some day." For that was the day before the reign of newspapers. Declamation
                        was the key to promotion.
                    One day when the session was drawing to its close, a messenger came for
                        Bonamy. The man had ridden hard over frozen ground for two days, and now
                        with horse worn out, he came to tell Mark that his mother was dying of one
                        of those bilious fevers which made the West a graveyard in those days. Mark
                        was a man of strong feeling. He had often disregarded the advice of his
                        mother, but she was the good influence of his life, so that it was with a
                        mixed emotion of grief and remorse that he mounted his horse and turned his
                        back upon the legislature, then in its last week, to make a forced ride of
                        eighty miles in two days over frozen roads of horrible roughness, with only
                        the faintest hope of seeing his mother alive.
                    But Death does not wait for us. When Mark rode his tired horse up to his
                        father's gate, the serious faces of those who met him at the door told that
                        he was too late.  It only remained to receive
                        her blessing at second-hand from the old women who had been with her to the
                        last, and who gave her messages to Mark in a tone that seemed to say: "Now,
                        you reprobate, you! don't you feel mean that you did not repent as your
                        mother wanted you to? Now you see in a time like this how superior to you we
                        pious people are; aha!" It is the persuasive way of some peopleï¿½this
                        crowing over a sinner. Mark wouldn't have taken a short step in the
                        direction of Paradise, on any account just then.
                    His two sisters were full of sorrow, though Amanda, the elder, showed it in a
                        severe and dignified way quite becoming in a Bonamy. Even Colonel Bonamy
                        looked softenedï¿½just a little.
                    Mrs. Bonamy was buried after the village custom. The funeral tickets were
                        distributed on the day of her death. The little printing-office conducted by
                        the editor, publisher, proprietor, and printer of the "Weekly Palladium,"
                        and one small boy, kept a black ornamental border all set up for funeral
                        tickets. The type of the set phrases, such as "Yourself and family are
                        respectfully invited," were never distributed; the name, and date, and hour
                        only were changed as occasion required. As soon as the tickets for Mrs.
                        Bonamy's funeral were ordered, the printer set the form of the funeral
                        ticket on the imposing-stone and proceeded to make the alterations needful
                        to render it appropriate to the present occasion. He pulled it apart, placed
                        the lines needing change in his composing-stick, took out the name of Job
                        Raymond, the last deceased, and replaced it with Mrs. Bonamy's, changed the
                        dates and other particulars, "justified" the lines, and then replaced them
                        in the form, and proceeded to "lock it up." In a short time the small inky
                        boy was rolling and the editor  was working off
                        with an old hand-press little tickets much like this: 
                            Yourself and family are respectfully invited to attend the funeral of
                                    OLIVIA W. BONAMY, from the
                                residence of her husband, DANIEL K. BONAMY, on Wednesday, February 19th, 1841, at one
                                o'clock P.M.
                        
                    
                    You will find many of these tickets laid away between the leaves of old books
                        in Luzerne. When the proper number were printed, the inky, impish-looking
                        lad made a feint of washing his hands, put on his round-about, and started
                        out to distribute them, with the greater part of his face in appropriate
                        mourning. He did not go to certain select families set down on a
                        pre-arranged list. A small town is democratic; the tickets were left at
                        every house, and you might have seen the village folks discussing the matter
                        over their division fences. For people must discuss somethingï¿½it is the
                        great preventive of insanity. So now every symptom of Mrs. Bonamy's disease
                        was gone over, and what Mrs. So-and-so said about it three days ago, and
                        what the doctor thought, and when "the change" took place, and who were
                        "sitting up the night she died," and whether she "died happy" or not, and
                        what she said, and whether the corpse looked "natural," and how old she  was, and "what time Mark got home," and how he
                        "took it," and how "the old colonel took it," and whether he would stay an
                        infidel or not, and how Amanda "took it," and whether the girl had much
                        heart or not, and whether the old man would marry again, and what he would
                        do about his family, and whether Mark would get "under conviction" or not,
                        and whether he would make a preacher if he was converted. But everybody was
                        agreed that, coming just at this time, it was a "mighty solemn call" to
                        Mark, and Jemima Dumbleton expressed herself very positively on this point.
                        She said he needed a solemn call, "Fer that ere Mark Bonamy," she went on,
                        "haint got no other god but Mark Bonamy. And worshipin' his self is mighty
                        like bowin' down to a god of brass, or to Aaron's calf, so it seems to
                        me."
                    The funeral took place like all the other village funerals of that day. First
                        the minister preached a sermon of warning and consolation to the living,
                        reviewing and eulogizing the life of the deceased. Then there was a
                        procession, which included, beside the wagon on which the coffin rested,
                        some old family carriages or carry-alls, several buggies, one gig, fifteen
                        people from the country on horseback, and a long line afoot, with the usual
                        number of stragglers and small boys, who ran alongside because it was a
                        procession. These small boys reached the graveyard in advance of the rest
                        and perched themselves high on the fences, where they could see all that
                        might take place. They were not noisy, though they showed much
                        excitementï¿½this was a spectacle, and any spectacle is a godsend to a
                        village lad. Whether it is a muster, or a funeral, a circus, or a
                        "baptizing," matters not to him,ï¿½so that something goes on and he sees
                        it.
                    The coffin was lowered, the Methodist service was read,  the grave was quickly filled and rounded up with the spades of
                        kindly neighbors,ï¿½after which the minister said that he "was requested on
                        behalf of the family of the deceased to thank the friends who had shown so
                        much kindness during her illness." Then he pronounced the benediction, and
                        the small boys leaped from the fences and hurried away pell-mell for the
                        town, while the friends slowly dispersed, the wintry winds playing a
                        pathetic requiem in the frozen and vibrant boughs of the clump of weeping
                        willows which keep, even unto this day, a perpetual vigil over the graves of
                        the village dead, while generation follows generation to the lonely
                        sleeping-place.
                    It was some time during the next day that Mark Bonamy went to see Roxy Adams,
                        to thank her for her faithful kindness to his mother, and receive some
                        messages that the mother had left in the keeping of Roxy. In his present
                        state of mind Mark was a little afraid of Roxy. But he was ill at ease in
                        his conscience, and he gave himself much credit for submitting to Roxy's
                        exhortations. It showed that he was not so very bad, after all.
                    Roxy did not take the lofty and patronizing stand he expected. There was
                        something so strange and persuasive in the earnestness with which the eager
                        girl spoke of his mother, something so touching in her enthusiastic appeals
                        to his conscience through his natural affection, that Bonamy, who was full
                        of sensibility, found himself strangely affected by it. He was always
                        susceptible to female influence, but he found that Roxy called out what was
                        best in him. He readily promised her that he would go to meeting that night,
                        and he kept his word.
                    He expected to be touched by the absence of his mother, who had always been a
                        prominent figure in the meetings. But there was so much change, that he did
                        not feel his  mother's absence as he thought to
                        feel it. The old, unpainted and unfenced, brick meeting-house with its
                        round-top front windows and its fan-light over the door, was the same.
                        Within there were the same stiff benches with awkward backs consisting of
                        two narrow boards far apart, the same unpainted pulpit with posts on either
                        side supporting candles in brass candlesticks, the same rusty boxstove
                        sitting in the middle of the aisle, and the same hanging tin chandeliers
                        with candles at every stage of consumption. The same tall, kindly sexton, a
                        man with one eye, went round as before, taking careful sight on a candle and
                        then, when sure of his aim, suddenly snuffing it, gently parting the wick
                        afterward to increase the light, then opening the stove door with a clatter
                        and pushing in a piece of wood. It was all as of old, but all so different.
                        The young men with whom Mark had had many a wild spree, sat no longer back
                        near the door in the seat of the scornful but in the "amen corner;" the
                        giddiest girls he had ever waltzed with were at this moment joining with
                        Roxy and the rest in singing that plaintive melody:
                    
                        "Our bondage here shall end,
                        By and byï¿½by and by."
                    
                    When one follows in the track of a storm one measures the force by the
                        uprooted trees and the shattered branches. So Mark, seeing all at once the
                        effects of the revival, felt that the town had been subjected to a fearful
                        power, and the sense of this invisible power almost overwhelmed him. Then,
                        too, he was as one who beholds all his friends sitting guests at a feast
                        while he shivers without in cold and darkness. The preacher's words were
                        evidently leveled at him. Dale knew, as all revivalists do, the value of
                        natural  sensibility as a sort of priming for
                        religious feeling; he touched with strong emphasis on "praying mothers," and
                        "friends gone before," and on probable separations in the world to come, and
                        Mark felt the full force of the whole tide of magnetic feeling in the
                        audience turned on himself.
                    He sought diversion in looking about. But this was vain. Those who had not
                        yet "made a start," looked full of grave apprehension. One or two stood like
                        trees unscathed by the blast. Ben Thomas was as full of mockery as ever. He
                        looked at Mark and nodded, saying:
                    "He means you, Mark. He loves a shining Mark! Ain't you under conviction
                        yet?"
                    But his horrible scoffing at everything, which to anybody else seemed sacred,
                        only reacted on Mark, and made him ready to put any gap between himself and
                        Ben. Near Ben sat Major Tom Lathers, tall and stringy and solemn. He kept
                        himself forever "in an interesting state of mind" in order that religious
                        people might encourage him by furthering his political aims. Lathers made
                        every church in the village believe that he "leaned toward" it, in
                        preference to the others. He talked to the Methodists about his Methodist
                        wife, "now dead and in heaven;" he told the Baptists about his "good Baptist
                        bringing up," and spoke feelingly to the Presbyterians about his "good old
                        Presbyterian grandmother," who taught him to say his prayers. Thus did this
                        exemplary man contrive to keep in a perpetual bond of sympathy with his
                        fellow-men, regardless of sect or creed. Had there been any Catholics and
                        Jews in the town he would doubtless have discovered a Catholic ancestor
                        somewhere, and a strong leaning toward Judaism on account of his lineal
                        descent from Noah. Provided always that the said  Catholics and Jews had at the least filed a declaration of their
                        intention to become citizens of this great republic.
                    Mark knew Lathers's hypocrisy and hated it. But what was his disgust when,
                        catching the major's solemn eye and following its direction, he saw on the
                        women's side of the church, decked out in cheap finery, Nancy Kirtley. She
                        sat next the aisle and her splendid and self-conscious face was posed on
                        purpose to attract his attention. She had come to town to spend two days at
                        the house of her brother, the drayman, and had prolonged her stay when she
                        heard that Mark had been sent for. She had not felt the revival excitement.
                        Roxy had besought her, the minister had preached at her, the sisters had
                        visited her. All this flattered and pleased her. She liked to be the center
                        of attention, and she had managed on occasion to squeeze out a tear or two
                        by way of encouraging the good people to keep up their visits. But for
                        herï¿½healthy, full-blooded, well-developed, beautiful animalï¿½there was no
                        world but this. Such people are enough to make one doubt whether immortality
                        be a gift so generally distributed as we sometimes think. On this evening
                        the radiant Nancy sat smiling among the solemn and even tearful people about
                        her. Her shallow nature had no thought now for anything but her appearance
                        and its probable effect on Mark.
                    Little did Nancy imagine what a goblin her face was to the young man. In his
                        present state of mind she was the ghost of his former sins and weakness. The
                        very attraction he found in her face startled him. So at last when he went
                        forward to be prayed for, it was not altogether repentance, nor altogether a
                        fear of perdition, even, but partly a desire to get out of the company in
                        which he found himself. Mark was hardly a free agent. He was  a man of impulsive temperament. His glossy,
                        black, curly hair and well-rounded, mobile face expressed this. In this
                        matter he floated in on the tide, just as he would have floated out on an
                        evil tide had the current set in the other direction.
                    That night Twonnet went home with Roxy. For how can girls be friends without
                        sleeping together? Is it that a girl's imagination is most impressed by
                        secrets told in the dark? I am not a girl; the secret of this appetency for
                        nocturnal friendship is beyond me, but I know that when two girls become
                        friends their favorite trysting place is sure to be the land of Nod. So
                        Twonnet, having attended the Methodist meeting, went home with Roxy. And
                        they discussed the "start" which Mark had made.
                    "I don't just like it," said the Swiss girl. "You see Mark is grieved by his
                        mother's death; he is sorry in a general sort of a way that he didn't do as
                        she wanted him to. But is he sorry for any particular sins? Now, when a body
                        repents I don't believe in their saying, 'I'm sorry I'm a sinner.' When I
                        can say, 'I am sorry that I get mad so quick and that I trouble other
                        people,' then I repent. Now, if Mark could say, 'I'm sorry I was drunk on
                        such a night, and that I gambled at such a time,' it would all be well
                        enough."
                    "How do you know he can't?" asked Roxy, somewhat warmly. For Mark was a
                        friend of hers, and now that his conversion was partly the result of her
                        endeavor, she felt a sort of proprietary interest in his Christian life.
                    "I tell you what, Twonnet," she added with enthusiasm, "it's a grand thing to
                        see a young man who has the glittering prizes of this world in his reach,
                        bring all his splendid gifts and lay them as a sacrifice on the altar of the
                        Lord, as Mark did to-night."
                    
                    "You give Mark more credit than he deserves," persisted the uncharitable
                        Twonnet, with a toss of her curls. "He didn't do anything very deliberately
                        to-night. He felt bad at his mother's death and sorry that he had treated
                        her badly. Wait till he actually gives up something before you praise
                        him."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X.
                    THE EXHORTER.
                    BUT if friends overestimated the change in Mark it is
                        quite certain that the critics were equally mistaken. For Mark converted was
                        quite a different Mark. Even the scoffers had to admit so much. A man who
                        finds his excitement in prayer-meetings and love-feasts is not the same with
                        a man who finds his diversion in gaming and whisky and all-night dancing. He
                        was not the same Mark; and yet, and yet, religion is only the co-efficient
                        derives its value from that of the quantity, known or unknown, into which it
                        is multiplied Mark was different but quite the same.
                    Wicked or pious, he must lead. In politics he had shown himself
                        self-confident, ambitious and fond of publicity. In religious affairs he
                        wasï¿½let us use the other names for similar traits when they are modified
                        by a noble sentimentï¿½bold, zealous and eager for success.
                    He began to speak in meeting at once, for the Methodists of that day were not
                        slow. In giving a new convert opportunity to "testify." Indeed, every man
                        and woman who became a Methodist was exhorted, persuaded, coaxed,
                        admonished, if need be, until he felt himself all but compelled to "witness
                        for Christ." If there was any hesitancy or natural diffidence in the way of
                        a new beginner's "taking up the cross," brethren did not fail to exhort him
                        in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs according  to the scripture. They would sing at him such words as these:
                            
                            
                                "I'm not ashamed to own my Lord
                                Or to defend his cause," etc.
                            
                         Or, 
                            
                                "Are there no foes for me to face?
                                Must I not stem the flood?
                                Is this vile world a friend to grace
                                To help me on to God?
                            
                        
                    
                    It was a sharp discipline to which the convert was thus subjected. No very
                        clear distinction was made between moral courage and mere effrontery,
                        between natural diffidence and real cowardice. But this discipline made
                        every one bear his share of responsibility. Methodism captured the West by
                        mobilizing its whole force. In time of revival at least there were no
                        reservesï¿½the whole landwehr was in action. Everybody
                        must speak in meeting, or pray, or exhort, or "talk to mourners," or solicit
                        the hesitating in the congregation personally. And so it came about that the
                        clear, flexible voice of Mark Bonamy was heard in the meetings almost
                        immediately. His addresses, if not eloquent, were at least striking and
                        effective. The visible tokens of the influence of his addresses were
                        pleasant to him,ï¿½there are few men to whom this sort of power would not be
                        gratifying. Mark was active, he enjoyed the excitement, he liked to feel
                        himself at last on the side of the right; he threw himself more and more
                        into the work of exhorting, he went out of town frequently to address
                        meetings in the country, and as he did not hesitate to brave storm or flood
                        in these expeditions, he soon acquired a reputation for zeal which was quite
                        agreeable to him, for it could not be expected that his natural vanity  should have all disappeared under the
                        influence of his piety. For that matter our motives are never quite so good
                        as we think, and never quite so bad as our enemies suppose. Our best is
                        inwoven with evil, and our worst, let us hope, has some strands of good.
                        Only God can unravel the complexity. Mark, for his part, did not attempt it.
                        He was of too complacent a temper to go behind the popular verdict when that
                        was so favorable as in the present case. He often confessed his depravity,
                        his sinfulness, his unworthiness; but this old heresy that a man is all bad
                        is the devil's own cloak under which one is always prone to hide specific
                        sins.
                    Of course Mark's religiousness occasioned much gossip in the small political
                        circles of the county. The sheriff, claiming to be intimate with Bonamy, was
                        often inquired of about it.
                    "Well, you see," Lathers replied when the solution was demanded by a crony,
                        "I don't think it's a sharp move. It makes friends and the like for Mark,
                        and gives him the preachers and class-leaders and exhausters and what
                        yemay-call-'ems. But you see he can't ride both horses with their heads and
                        the like turned different ways. And it's the fellers that don't go to
                        class-meetin' and the like that carries elections. How's Mark goin' it with
                        them? Can't drink, can't danceï¿½pshaw! it ain't the best card Mark had, and
                        I don't see for my life what made him throw it. He ain't too smart at
                        'lectioneerin' and the like noways. Ef't hadn't been for me that dancin' so
                        much with Nance Kirtley would 'a' tripped him last run; I laid myself out to
                        save him from that scrape and lost votes and the like a-doin' it. And he
                        don't appreciate it. But he don't come a-foolin' 'round me with his religion
                        and goin's-on, and the like, I tell you, now."
                    
                    Here the astute man took a good bite from a plug of tobacco. Then he
                        expectorated awhile with a deadly, melancholy, meditative aim at the rusty
                        grate.
                    "Liker'n not, now, I may do Mark injestice," he went on with a suspicious
                        twinkle. "It may be one of them Methodist girls and the like he's after. But
                        then he don't show no signs. That ain't like him. He's a plumb fool when
                        they's anything of that kind a-goin'. I can't make it out. I don't believe
                        he kin nother! It's like the feller't had measles, and mumps, and janders,
                        and cholery infantu-um all in one heap. 'I can't make it out,' say's the
                        doctor, 'but I'll give you a little of everything I've got in the pill-bags,
                        and something'll hit the disease, may be.' I heard that the Kirtley girl had
                        went forrerd and the like in one of the meetin's out on the crick. I know
                        what tree she's a barkin' up. It's like the man said about his dog. 'He's
                        treed a bear," says he; 'he barks too big fer a 'coon.' Nothing but big game
                        would make Nancy Kirtley put on the pious and the like."
                    If the sheriff erred in his estimate of Mark, he was more nearly right when
                        it came to Nancy. To marry Mark Bonamy was more to her than heaven itself;
                        for the bliss of heaven or any other joy long deferred made no impression on
                        her. When Mark became religious she followed him. And her large-eyed beauty
                        became yet more dazzling when she tried to appear religious. It made one
                        hope that, after all, there might be a soul within. So long, indeed, as she
                        said nothing, she was a picture of meditative wisdom, a very Minerva. But
                        when she spoke, it was, after all, only Minerva's bird. Such was the
                        enchantment of the great still eyes in her passively beautiful face, that
                        after many shocking disillusions brought about by the folly of her tongue,
                        one was  sure to relapse again into a belief in
                        her inspiration as soon as she became silent. I doubt if good John Kaspar
                        Lavater himself could expound to us this likeness of absolute vacuity to
                        deep thoughtfulness. Why do owls and asses seem so wise?
                    Nancy's apparent conversion was considered a great triumph. Wherever Mark
                        went he was successful, and nearly everybody praised him. Mrs. Hanks, Roxy's
                        well-to-do aunt, held forth to Jemima upon the admirable ability of the
                        young man, and his great goodness and self-sacrifice in "laying all his
                        advantages of talent, and wealth, and prospects at the foot of the
                        cross."
                    "I tell what I think, Henriette," replied Jemima, with her customary freedom;
                        "I think that's all fol-de-rol and twaddle-de-dee." Here she set her iron
                        down with emphasis and raised her reddened face from her work, wiping the
                        perspiration away with her apron. "I think it's all nonsense fer the
                        brethren and sisters to talk that way, jest like as ef Mark had conferred a
                        awful favor on his Creater in lendin' him his encouragement. Do you think
                        it's sech a great thing to be Colonel Bonamy's son and a member of the
                        Injeanny legislater, that God must feel mightily obleeged to Mark Bonamy fer
                        bein' so kind as to let him save his immortal soul? Now, I don't," and here
                        she began to shove her iron again. "You all 'll spile Mark by settin'him up
                        on a spinnacle of the temple," she added, as she paused a moment to stretch
                        out a shirt sleeve, preparatory to ironing it.
                    "Jemima," said Mrs. Hanks, "it's wicked to talk that way. You are always
                        making fun of the gospel. I'm sure Mark's very humble. He calls himself the
                        chief of sinners."
                    "I s'pose he does. That's nice to set himself up alongside  of Paul and say: 'See, Paul and me was both
                        great sinners.' That makes you think he's a-goin' to be like Paul in
                        preachin'. But s'pose one of the brethrenï¿½brother Dale, nowï¿½was to say:
                        'Brother Bonamy, you're the biggest sinner in town. You're wuss'n ole Gatlin
                        that went to penitenshry, an' you're wuss'n Bob Gramps that was hung.' D'you
                        think he'd say, 'Amen, that's a fact'? But ef bein' the chief of sinners
                        means anything, that's what it means."
                    "Jemima, I tell you, you're wicked. It's right to kill the fatted calf for
                        the returning prodigal."
                    "Oh yes, I know," and Jemima wiped her face again. "But I wouldn't kill all
                        the calves on the place and then begin on the ye'rin's so as to make him
                        think it was a nice thing to be a prodigal. I'd he afraid the scamp would go
                        back and try it over again."
                    And here Jemima broke out with her favorite couplet:
                    
                        "Oh, hender me not, fer I will serve the Lord,
                        And I'll praise him when I die."
                    
                    Mark did find the attention which his piety brought him very pleasant, and
                        indeed his new peace with himself made him happy. His cup would have been
                        full of sweetness if it had not been for the one bitter drop. Nancy would
                        follow him. Wherever he held meetings she availed herself of the abounding
                        hospitality of the brethren to pursue him. She boasted a little, too, of her
                        acquaintance with Brother Bonamy before his conversion. She received much
                        attention on account of her friendship for him. But Mark's worst trouble was
                        that he could not emancipate himself from her. She attracted him. Struggle
                        as he might with the temptation, her exceeding fairness was a continual
                        snare to his thoughts.  It humbled him, or at
                        least annoyed him, to remember that while all the world thought him a saint,
                        he could not but feel a forbidden pleasure in looking on one, to attach
                        himself to whom would be certain overthrow to all plans for goodness or
                        usefulness. Did there also dawn upon the mind of Mark, unaccustomed as it
                        was to self-analysis, the thought that this passion for Nancy had nothing to
                        do with what was best in him? Did he ever reflect that it had no tinge of
                        sentiment about it? Certain it is that he struggled with it, after a
                        fashion; but his attempts to extinguish it, as is often the case, served to
                        fan it into something like a flame; for such passions are not to be
                        foughtï¿½when one fights one thinks, and thought is oil to the flame. They
                        are to be extinguished by the withdrawal of fuel; to be eliminated by
                        substitution of serious purposes. Mark prayed against his passion; reflected
                        wisely on the folly of it; did everything but what he ought to have done. He
                        perpetually hid from himself that his conversations with Nancy on the
                        subject of religion were sources of nothing but evil to himself and to her.
                        Was she not a convert of his own labors? Should he not do what he could to
                        strengthen her purpose to do right?
                    About this time Dr. Ruter's missionaries in Texas had attracted much
                        attention, and Mark thought of joining them. He would thus undertake a hard
                        thing, and Mark was in the humor of doing something Herculean. He spurned
                        the idea that he was to settle himself to the ordinary and unpoetic duties
                        of life, or that, if he should become a preacher he could be content with
                        doing only what commonplace circuit-riders did. In a general sort of way,
                        without wishing for specific martyrdom, he would have liked to brave wild
                        beasts or persecutions. Most of us  would be
                        willing to accept martyrdom in the abstract,ï¿½to have the glory and
                        self-complacency of having imitated Paul, without having our heads
                        specifically beaten with specific stones in the hands of specific heathen,
                        or our backs lacerated with Philippian whips on any definitely specified
                        day.
                    Bonamy had caught the genuine Methodist spirit, however, and being full of
                        enterprise and daring he was ready for some brave endeavor. Perhaps, too, he
                        found a certain relief in the thought that a mission of some kind would
                        carry him away from the besetment of Nancy, who had lately persuaded him to
                        give her his pocket-testament as an assistance to her religious life.
                    At any rate, it was soon noised that Bonamy was going to do something. The
                        rumor was very vague; nobody knew just what the enterprise of the young
                        Methodist was to be. Texas, and even Mexico, was mentioned; Choctaw Indians,
                        the Dakota mission and what not, were presently woven into the village
                        gossip.
                    Colonel Bonamy debated in himself, how he should defeat this scheme. As a
                        lawyer he was accustomed to manage men. He had but two ways: the one to play
                        what he called "bluff,"ï¿½to sail down on his opponent and appall him by a
                        sudden display of his whole armament; the other was a sort of intellectual
                        ambuscade. With Mark, who had always been under authority, he chose the
                        first. It is not pleasing to parental vanity to have to take roundabout
                        courses.
                    "Mark," said the old colonel, as the young man entered his office, "sit down
                        there," and he pointed to a chair.
                    This was a sign of coming reproof. Mark had been so much flattered by the
                        Whigs on the one hand and his religious associates on the other, that he did
                        not quite like  this school boy position. He
                        seated himself in the chair indicated. The old gentleman did not begin
                        speech at once. He knew that when "bluff" was to be played a preliminary
                        pause and a great show of calmness on his part would tend to demoralize the
                        enemy. So he completed the sentence he was writing, gathered up his papers
                        and laid them away. Then he turned his chair square around toward his son,
                        took off his glasses, stroked the rough, grizzlid beard of three days'
                        growth on his chin, and fastened his eyes on Mark.
                    "What is the use of being an infernal fool?" said the old man. "I let you
                        take your own course in politics. I didn't say anything against your being a
                        little unsteady; I was a young man myself once and sowed some wild oats. I
                        knew you would settle after a while. But I never was such a confounded fool
                        as you! To let a set of shouting old women and snooping preachers set you
                        off your head till you throw away all your chances in life, is to be the
                        plaguedest fool alive. Now, I tell you, by godamity, Mark Bonamy, that if
                        you go to Texas you may go to the devil, too, for all of me. I'll cut you
                        out of every red cent. I don't waste my money on a jackass, sir. That's
                        all."
                    The old man had by this time wrought himself into a real passion. But he had
                        mistaken Mark's temper. He was no more a man to yield to threats than his
                        father. Many a man with less heart for martyrdom than Mark can burn at the
                        stake when his obstinacy is aroused.
                    "Keep your money, I don't want it," he said contemptuously, as he strode out
                        of his father's office, mentally comparing himself to Simon Peter rejecting
                        the offer of Simon Magus.
                    He was of a temper quite earnest enough to have made more real sacrifices
                        than the giving up of a reversionary  interest
                        in an estate between him and the possession of which there stood the
                        vigorous life of his father. But the apparent sacrifice was considerable,
                        and it was much extolled. Roxy in particular was lost in admiration of what
                        seemed to her unchecked imagination a sublime self-sacrifice. She rejoiced
                        humbly in the part she had taken in bringing Mark to a religious life, while
                        she estimated the simplicity and loftiness of his motives by the nobleness
                        of her own. And, indeed, Mark's missionary purpose was in the main a noble
                        one.
                
                
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI.
                    DIVINING CUPS.
                    INTENSE excitements cannot endure. It is a "merciful
                        provision." Human nature strained too long in any direction must find repose
                        in relaxation or change in reaction. As the white heat of the political
                        excitement of "the campaign of '40" had cooled off, so now the revival
                        excitement slowly but surely subsided. There were brethren unversed in the
                        philosophy of human nature who did not know that after the summer heat of
                        religious excitement a hibernation is needful and healthy, and who set
                        themselves to prevent the cooling, or the "backsliding" as they termed it.
                        But the ebb tide was too strong for them, they were caught in it themselves,
                        tired nature overstrained in one direction sank into torpor, in them as well
                        as in others. Doubtless this period of reaction was worth quite as much as
                        the period of revival. The winnowing went on rapidly now; the good folks
                        were greatly alarmed to see how much of what they had raked together was
                        mere chaff; but ever as the wind drove away the chaff, the solid grain
                        became visible.
                    Among those who proved steadfast was the young lawyer. He did not go out to
                        exhort so much in meetings as before, but then it was corn-planting time and
                        meetings were no longer common in the country. He gave attention to his
                        business, but it was still understood that he meditated some dreadful
                        mission to some outlandish place, Oregon or Texas or Guineaï¿½gossips were
                        divided about  ocalityï¿½it was away off in
                        that direction some Mark talked less about it now, and was not quite
                         are of his own mind in the matter as he had been, exept while
                        talking to Roxy. He grew more and more fond of talking to Roxy. In
                        conversation with her it was the better Mark who spoke. The lower, the
                        passionate, the vacillating Mark was quite put out of sight. Roxy called out
                        his best, and put him in conceit with himself. All that was highest in her
                        transferred itself somehow to him, and he was inclined to give himself
                        credit for originating the impulses with which she inspired him. He liked to
                        look at himself shining in the light of her reflected enthusiasm. She had
                        set up an ideal Mark Bonamy, and the real Mark was so pleased to look at
                        this flattering picture in the mind of the pure-hearted girl, that he came
                        to believe the image of himself which he saw there to be an accurate
                        likeness.
                    Of course interviews so frequent and so pleasant must grow to something more.
                        It doesn't matter what a young man and a young woman talk about, even
                        sympathetic conversations about missionary labors in Texas or in Greenland
                        are apt to become tender. One enthusiasm translates itself so easily into
                        another! This worship of his real and imaginary goodness, and this stimulus
                        of what was best in him was so agreeable to Bonamy that he began to doubt
                        whether after all it was best to undertake a mission to the Texans
                        single-handed and alone. Good old sisters whose match-making proclivities
                        had not died but had only been sanctified, took occasion to throw out hints
                        on the subject, which greatly encouraged Mark to believe that Roxy was
                        divinely intended and molded to be his helpmate in that great, vast, vague
                        enterprise which should be worthy of the large abilities he had
                        consecrated.
                    
                    Roxy on her part was a highly imaginative girl.  was a
                        large-shouldered, magnificent, Apollo-like fel who thought himself something
                        wonderful, and whom his friends thought wonderful. It was easy to take him
                        at the popular estimate, and then to think she had discovered even more than
                        others saw in bim. For was it not to her that he revealed his great
                        unsettled plans for suffering and dying for the cross of Christ? And as he
                        came more and more, the pure-spirited girl began to long that she might
                        somehow share his toils and sufferings. The ambition to do some heroic thing
                        had always burned in her heart, and in her it was a pure flame with no taint
                        of selfishness or egotism.
                    Mark went into Adams's shop one day to have his boots mended.
                    "So you are going to Texas, are you?" broke out the shoe-maker, with
                        half-suppressed vehemence.
                    "Yes."
                    "Fool's errandï¿½fool's errand," muttered the old man as he turned the boots
                        over to look at the soles. Then he looked furtively at Bonamy and was
                        disappointed to find in his face no sign of perturbation. "Fool's errand, I
                        say," sharper than before.
                    Mark tossed back his black hair, and said with a twinkle:
                    "So you think, no doubt."
                    "Think? think?" Here the shoe-maker choked for utterance.
                        "I tell you if you were my son I'dï¿½" then he went on turning the boots
                        over and left the sentence unfinished. Perhaps because he could not think
                        what he would do to such a strapping son as Mark; perhaps because the
                        sentence seemed more frightful in this mysterious state of suspended
                        animation than it could have done with any conceivable penalty at the
                        end.
                    
                    ou'd spank me and not give me any supper, may  said Mark, who was
                        determined to be good-natured with Roxy's father.
                    The old man's face did not relax.
                    "That shoe needs half-soling," he said, ferociously. "What makes you run your
                        boots down at the heel?"
                    "To make business lively for the shoe-makers."
                    "And what'll you do when you get to Texas where there are no shoe-makers? I
                        wish I could patch cracked heads as easy as cracked shoes."
                    Adams was not averse to Mark's flattering attentions to Roxy, to which he had
                        attached a significance greater than Mark had intended or Roxy suspected.
                        Missionary fever would soon blow over perhaps, and then Mark was sure to "be
                        somebody."
                    Besides, the shoe-maker was himself meditating a marriage with Miss Moore.
                        Her sign hung next to his own on Main street, and read, "Miss Moore,
                        Millinery and Mantua-maker." Adams may have guessed from the verbal
                        misconstruction of the sign, that the mantua-maker was as much in the market
                        as the millinery; but at least he had taken pity on her loneliness and Miss
                        Moore had "felt great sympathy for" his loneliness, and so they were both
                        ready to decrease their loneliness by making a joint stock of it. Adams,
                        thinking of marriage himself, could not feel unkind toward a similar
                        weakness in younger people.
                    There was, however, one person who did not like this growing attachment
                        between Mark Bonamy and Roxy Adams. Twonnet had built other castles for her
                        friend. She was not sentimental, but shrewd, practical, matter-of-factï¿½in
                        short she was Swiss. She did not believe in Mark's steadfastness. Besides,
                        her hero was Whittaker  whose serious
                        excellence of character was a source of perpetual admiration in her. She was
                        fully conscious of her own general unfitness to aspire to be the wife of
                        such a man; she had an apprehension that she abode most of the time under
                        the weight of the minister's displeasure, and she plainly saw that in his
                        most kindly moods he treated her as one of those who were doomed to a sort
                        of perpetual and amiable childhood. It was by no great stretch of
                        magnanimity, therefore, that Twonnet set herself to find a way to promote an
                        attachment between Whittaker and Roxy. Next to her own love affair a girl is
                        interested in somebody else's love affair.
                    But Twonnet saw no way of pushing her design, for Whittaker carefully
                        abstained from going to Adams's house. Twonnet beguiled Roxy into spending
                        evenings at her father's. Whittaker, on such occasions, took the
                        dispensations of Providence kindly, basking in the sun light of Roxy's
                        inspiring presence for a few hours, and lying awake in troubled indecision
                        the entire night thereafter. It was with an increase of hope that Twonnet
                        saw the mutual delight of the two in each other's society, and she was more
                        than ever convinced that she was the humble instrumentality set apart by
                        Providence to bring about a fore-ordained marriage. She managed on one
                        pretext or another to leave them alone at times in the old-fashioned parlor,
                        with no witness but the Swiss clock on the wall, the tic-tac of whose long,
                        slow pendulum made the precious moments of communion with Roxy seem longer
                        and more precious to the soul of the preacher. But nothing came of these
                        long-drawn seconds of conversation on indifferent topicsï¿½nothing ever came
                        but sleepless nights and new conflicts for Whittaker. For how should he
                        marry on his slender salary and with his education yet  unpaid for? After each of these interviews contrived by
                        Twonnet, the good-hearted maneuverer looked in vain to see him resume his
                        calls at the house of Mr. Adams. But he did not. She could not guess
                        why.
                    One night Twonnet spent with Roxy. Mark came in, in his incidental way,
                        during the evening, but he did not get on well. The shrewd Twonnet got him
                        to tell of his electioneering experiences, and contrived to make him show
                        the wrong side of his nature all the evening. Roxy was unhappy at this, and
                        so was Mark, but Twonnet felt a mischievous delight in thus turning Mark
                        aside from talking about Roxy's pet enthusiasms, and in showing them the
                        discords which incipient lovers do not care to see.
                    The girls sat at the breakfast-table a little late the next morningï¿½late in
                        relation to village habits, for it was nearly seven o'clock. Twonnet
                        proposed to tell fortunes with coffee-grounds, after the manner of girls.
                        Roxy hesitated a little; she was scrupulous about trifles, but at Twonnet's
                        entreaty she reversed her cup to try the fortune of her friend.
                    "I don't see anything, Twonnet, in these grounds," she said, inspecting the
                        inside of her cup, "exceptï¿½exceptï¿½yesï¿½I see an animal. I can't tell
                        whether it's a dog or a mule. It has a dog's tail and mule's ears. What does
                        that mean?"
                    "Pshaw! you aren't worth a cent, Roxy, to tell fortunes," and with that
                        Twonnet looked over her shoulder. "Dog's tail! why that's a sword, don't you
                        see. I am to have a gentleman come to see me who is a military man."
                    "But will he carry his sword up in the air that way as if he were going to
                        cut your head off if you should refuse him?" asked Roxy, "and what about
                        these ears?"
                    
                    "Ears! that is beastly, Roxy. Those are side-whiskers. Now, see me tell your
                        fortune."
                    With this, Twonnet capsized her cup in the saucer and let it remain inverted
                        for some seconds, then righting it again she beheld the sediment of her
                        coffee streaked up and down the side of the cup in a most unintelligible
                        way. But Twonnet's rendering was fore-determined.
                    "I see," she began, and then she paused a long time, for in truth it was hard
                        to see anything. "I seeï¿½"
                    "Well, what?" said Roxy, "a dog's tail or side-whiskers?"
                    "I see a young man, rather tall, with curly hair andï¿½and broad shoulders."
                        Twonnet now looked steadily in the cup, and spoke with the rapt air of a
                        Pythoness. Had she looked up she would have seen the color increasing in
                        Roxy's cheeks. "But his back is turned, and so I see that you will reject
                        him. There are crooked lines crossing his figure by which I perceive it
                        would have been a great source of trouble to you had you accepted him. There
                        would have been discord and evil."
                    Here Roxy grew pale, but Twonnet still looked eagerly in the cup.
                    "I see," she continued, "a tall, serious man. There is a book in front of
                        him. He is a minister. The lines about him are smooth and indicate
                        happiness. His face is toward me and I perceiveï¿½thatï¿½"
                    But here Roxy impatiently wrested the cup from her hand and said, "Shut up,
                        you gabbling story-teller!" Then looking in the cup curiously, she said,
                        "There's nothing of all that there. Just a few streaks of
                        coffee-grounds."
                    "May be you spoiled it," said the gypsy Twonnet. "You cannot read your own
                        destiny. I read it for you."
                    
                    "And I read yours," said Roxy; "an animal with a dog's tail and mule's ears.
                        But don't let's talk any more nonsense, Twonnet, it's a sin."
                    "More harm comes of religious talk sometimes than of fooling," retorted
                        Twonnet.
                    "What do you mean?" demanded Roxy, with anger and alarm.
                    But Twonnet did not answer except by a significant look from her black eyes.
                        The girls had changed places for a time. It was Twonnet who had taken the
                        lead.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII.
                    WHITTAKER'S SHIP COMES IN.
                    POVERTY is always superstitious, if we may believe the
                        Bonhomme Bï¿½ranger, and Whittaker, driven to and fro between a growing love
                        for Roxy Adams and an honest sense of obligation to pay for his education,
                        had one superstition. His father had, four years before, invested all his
                        small savings in a whaling vessel sailing out of the port of New Bedford.
                        News had come from the Arctic seas which led to the belief that the ship was
                        lost. Distress at the loss of his property, with the superadded grief of
                        losing his wife soon after, had caused the death of Whittaker's father. But
                        the son had never been quite convinced that the "Petrel" had gone down. And
                        now he even dreamed at night of the "Petrel," weather-worn but richly laden,
                        sailing into New Bedford harbor with Roxy on her prow, while he stood in the
                        crowd of rejoicing stockholders, anxious friends of sailors, curious idlers,
                        on the busy pier watching her return. But the "Petrel" never, except in
                        Whittaker's dreams, floated again over the waters of Buzzard's Bay. He hoped
                        in vain for his dividend, and the weary wives of sailors on the "Petrel"
                        waited in vain for husbands whose grave-stones were the icebergs.
                    But if the "Petrel" did not come, another ship did. The rich and childless
                        deacon, who out of his large means had lent young Whittaker enough to finish
                        his education for the ministry, died, and remembering that notes  and bonds could not add to his comfort in
                        heaven, he willed to his beneficiary the amount of his debt. On the very
                        morning of Twonnet's fortune-telling Whittaker had gone feverishly to the
                        village post-office in the back part of a dry goods store, to look for the
                        letter that should bring him news of the "Petrel." He readily paid the
                        thirty-seven and a half cents postage on a letter from his brother, and
                        opened it eagerly to read, not the return of the "Petrel," but the death of
                        Deacon Borden and his own release from bondage. I am afraid that his joy at
                        his deliverance from debt exceeded his sorrow at the death of his
                        benefactor. He would now carry out a plan which he had lately conceived of
                        starting a school, for there was no good one in the village. The two hundred
                        dollars a year which this would bring, added to his two hundred from the
                        Home Missionary Society and the one hundred of salary from the church, would
                        be ample for his support and that of a wife.
                    He was so elated that he could not quite keep his secret. He had gotten into
                        a habit of talking rather freely to Twonnet. Her abundant animal spirits
                        were a relief to his sobriety, and he had observed that her regard for him
                        was kindly and disinterested. So with his letter full of news, he began to
                        walk the upper piazza, waiting for the blithe Twonnet to come out, for she
                        had returned home and was now, as she "made up" the beds, singing and
                        chatting to her younger sisters half in French and half in English. In
                        circumstances such as his, one must talk to somebody. Once
                        he paused in his pacing to and fro and looked off at the deep green of the
                        Kentucky hills, overlaid by a thin blue atmospheric enamel; he looked
                        through the grape-vines which over-clambered the upper piazza, to the great,
                        peaceful current of the Ohio, flowing steadily  in a majestic stillness;ï¿½a placid giant is that river;ï¿½he listened to
                        the red-bird in a neighboring cherry-tree pouring out an ecstasy of amorous
                        song to his mate, as he leaped joyously from bough to bough; and he, the
                        grave, severe young minister, rejoiced in hills, and sky, and river and
                        singing birds, half reproaching himself all the time for being so happy and
                        feeling like a good boy that, under some impulse quite irresistible, has
                        suddenly played truant.
                    Twonnet was long in appearing and Mr. Whittaker resumed his pacing to and
                        fro, glancing every now and then at the hills and the river, and listening
                        in a dreamy way to the delicious melody of the red-bird and the occasional
                        soft cooing of a turtle-dove whose nest was in an apple-tree just beyond the
                        garden fence. At last Twonnet came out on the piazzaï¿½or porch, as they
                        call it in Indianaï¿½and Whittaker told her, with what solemnity he could,
                        of the death of the old deacon, and then of his own good fortune.
                    "I'm glad," said Twonnet, beginning to guess what had kept Whittaker from
                        visiting Roxy.
                    "Glad the deacon's dead?" queried Whittaker, smiling.
                    "I do not know your friend and I can't be very sorry for him. But I do know
                        you and I am glad, since he must die, that he was good enough to give you
                        your debt. It shows he was prepared to go, you see, so my pleasure is quite
                        religious and right," and she laughed roguishly. "Besides, you don't seem
                        heart-broken about it, andï¿½" but here she checked herself, seeing that she
                        had given pain.
                    "I am afraid I have been selfish," said Whittaker,ï¿½all the gladness had
                        gone now,ï¿½"but you don't know what  a
                        nightmare this debt has been. I don't wonder that debt makes men
                        criminalsï¿½it hardens the heart."
                    "Well, Mr. Whittaker, if he had wanted you to feel sorry when he had gone, he
                        ought to have given you the money while he was alive," said Twonnet,
                        lightly. Then she started away, but looked back over her shoulder to say
                        teasingly, "Now, Mr. Whittaker, you'll go to see somebody, I'll bet."
                    "Twonnet," he called after her, and when she had stopped he asked: "Is there
                        any reason why I shouldn't go to see somebody?"
                    "Of course not. Every reason why you should go right off. You are not too
                        late, but you will be if you wait." This last was said with the old
                        bantering tone, and Whittaker looked after her as she disappeared, saying to
                        himself:
                    "A splendid girl. Pity she is so giddy."
                    After mature reflection lasting fifteen minutes, he decided to call on Roxy
                        Adams that very afternoon. He had not understood Twonnet's warning, but some
                        apprehension of grave disaster to his new-born hope, and the nervousness of
                        an austere man who has not often found duty and inclination coincident, made
                        him in haste to forestall any misadventure. He ate but little dinner, not
                        even enjoying his favorite dish of dandelion greens cooked in good Swiss
                        fashion. Mr. Lefaure watched anxiously and at last inquired with
                        earnestness:
                    
                        "Est-ce que vous ne vous portez pas bien, Monsieur?"
                    
                    But Whittaker smiled and assured the host that he was well, but had no
                        appetite.
                    Twonnet, at last, solemnly told her father that Mr. Whittaker had received a
                        letter that very morning informing him of the death of an old friend, and
                        this information 
                        
                            "THIS OTHER WAY!" CRIED THE MISCHIEVOUS VOICE OF
                                TWONNET.
                        
                         tallied so little with the expression on the
                        minister's face that Twonnet's father was quite suspicious that the girl was
                        playing one of her little pranks on him. But when he looked again at
                        Whittaker's face it was serious enough.
                    After dinner the minister tried to get ready with great deliberation. By
                        severe constraint he compelled himself to move slowly, and to leave the
                        little front gate of palings, painted black atop, in a direction opposite to
                        that which his feet longed to take.
                    "The other way," cried the mischievous voice of Twonet, from behind a
                        honeysuckle which she affected to be tying up to its trellis.
                    "Presently," replied he, finding it so much easier not to keep his secret,
                        and pleased with Twonnet's friendly sympathy. But that word, spoken to her
                        half in tenderness, pierced her like an arrow. A sharp pang of jealousy and
                        I know not what, shot through her heart in that moment; the sunshine
                        vanished from her face. She had accomplished her purpose in sending Mr.
                        Whittaker to Roxy, and now her achievement suddenly became bitter to her.
                        She ran upstairs and closed her door and let down the blind of green slats,
                        then she buried her head in the great feather pillows and cried her eyes
                        red. She felt lonely and forsaken of her friends. She was mad with the
                        minister and with Roxy.
                    But Whittaker walked away in the sunlight full of hope and happiness.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII.
                    A WEATHER-BREEDER.
                    PEEPS into the future are depressing. Twonnet's gypsy-gift
                        did not raise Roxy's spirits. By means of divination she had suddenly found,
                        not exactly that she was in love with Mark, but that she was in a fair way
                        to love him. It was painful, too, to know that all the joy she had had in
                        talking with Bonamy was not as she had thought it, purely religious and
                        disinterested. Her sensitive conscience shuddered at the thought of
                        self-deception, and she had been in this case both deceiver and dupe. She
                        had little belief in Twonnet's gift of prophecy but much in her shrewd
                        insight. Was it true, then, that the great, brilliant and self-sacrificing
                        Mark loved her? This thought would have been enough to plunge her into doubt
                        and questionings. But Twonnet's evident distrust of her hero vexed and
                        perturbed her. And then to have her other hero suddenly thrown into the
                        opposite scale drove her into a tangle of complex feelings. How did Twonnet
                        know anything about Mr. Whittaker's feeling toward her? Was it likely that
                        he would want to marry a Methodist?
                    Alas! just when her life was flowing so smoothly and she seemed to be able to
                        be useful, the whole stream was suddenly perturbed by cross-currents and
                        eddies, and she was thrown into doubts innumerable. Prayer did not seem to
                        do any good; her thoughts were so distracted that devotion was impossible.
                        This distraction and depression  seemed to her
                        the hiding of the Lord's face. She wrote in her diary on that day: 
                            "I am walking in great darkness. I have committed some sin and the
                                Lord has withdrawn from me the light of his countenance. I try to
                                pray, but my thoughts wander. I fear I have set my heart on earthly
                                things. What a sinner I am. Oh Lord! have mercy! Leave me not in my
                                distress. Show me the right way, and lead me in paths of
                                righteousness for thy name's sake."
                        
                    
                    The coming of Whittaker that afternoon added to her bewilderment. She did her
                        best to receive him with composure and cordiality, but Twonnet's prophecy
                        had so impressed her beforehand with the purpose of his visit that she
                        looked on him from the first in doubt, indecision and despair. And yet her
                        woman's heart went out toward him as he sat there before her, gentle, manly,
                        unselfish and refined. It was clear to her then that she could love him. But thoughts of Mark Bonamy and his mission
                        intruded. Had Whittaker come a week or two earlier!
                    While the minister talked, Roxy could not control her fingers at her
                        knitting. Her hands trembled and refused to make those motions which long
                        since had become so habitual as to be almost involuntary. There was one
                        relief; Bubo sat alongside of her and the poor fellow grew uneasy as he
                        discovered her agitation. She let fall her knitting and pushed the hair from
                        the boy's inquiring face, lavishing on him the pity she felt for her suitor,
                        speaking caressing words to him, which he caught up and repeated like an
                        echo in the tones of tenderness which she used. Whittaker envied the
                        perpetual child these caresses and the pitying love which Roxy gave him.
                        Roxy was much moved by Whittaker's emotion. Her pitiful  heart longed not so much to love him for her own sake as to
                        comfort him for his sake. Some element of compassion must needs have been
                        mingled with the highest love of which she was capable.
                    The minister came to the love-making rather abruptly. He praised her and his
                        praises were grateful to her, he avowed his love, and love was very sweet to
                        her, but it was when, having exhausted his praises and his declarations, he
                        leaned forward his head on his hand, and said, "Only love me, Roxy, if you
                        can," that she was deeply moved. She ceased her caresses of the boy and
                        looked out of the window in silence, as though she would fain find something
                        there that might show her a way out of the perplexities into which her life
                        had come. Bobo, in whose mind there was always an echo, caught at the last
                        words, and imitating the very tone of the minister, pleaded:
                    "Only love me, Roxy, if you can."
                    This was too much for the girl's pent-up emotions, she caught the lad and
                        pressed him in her arms eagerly, saying or sobbing:
                    "Yes, I will love you, Bo, God bless you!"
                    She had no sooner relaxed her hold than the minister, in whose eyes were
                        tears, put his own arm about the simple lad and embraced him, much to the
                        boy's delight. This act, almost involuntary as it was, touched Roxy's very
                        heart. She was ready in that moment to have given herself to the good
                        man.
                    But again she looked out of the window, straining her eyes in that blind,
                        instinctive, searching stare, to which we are all prone in time of
                        perplexity. There was nothing without but some pea-vines, climbing and
                        blossoming on the brush which supported them, a square bed of lettuce, and a
                        hop-vine clambering in bewildering luxuriance 
                        over the rail fence. The peaceful hen-mother, troubled by no doubts or
                        scruples, scratched diligently in the soft earth, clucking out her content
                        with a world in which there were plenty of angle-worms, and seeming in her
                        placidity to mock at Roxy's perturbation. Why should all these dumb
                        creatures be so full of peace? Roxy had not learned that internal conflicts
                        are the heritage of superiority. It is so easy for small-headed stupidity to
                        take no thought for the morrow.
                    But all that Roxy, with her staring out of the window, could see was that she
                        could not see anything at all.
                    "Will you tell me, Miss Adams," asked the minister, presently, "whether I am
                        treading where I ought notï¿½whether you are engaged?"
                    "No, I am not." Roxy was a little startled at his addressing her as "Miss
                        Adams." For in a western village the Christian name is quite the common form
                        of speech to a young person.
                    There was another long silence, during which Roxy again inquired of the
                        idle-looking pea-vines, and the placid hen, and the great, green hop-vine
                        clambering over the fence. Then she summoned courage to speak:
                    "Please, Mr. Whittaker, give me time to thinkï¿½to think and pray for light.
                        Will you waitï¿½wait a weekï¿½or so? I cannot see my way."
                    "I cannot see my way," put in Bobo, pathetically.
                    "Certainly, Roxy. Good-bye!"
                    She held out her hand, he pressed it but without looking at her face, put on
                        his hat, and shook hands with little Bobo, whose sweet infantile face looked
                        after him wistfully.
                    He was gone and Roxy sighed with relief. But she had only postponed the
                        conflict.
                    
                    The minister, who had carried away much hope, met Mr. Adams in the street,
                        and, partly because he felt friendly toward everybody and toward all
                        connected with Roxy in particular, he stopped to talk with him; and he in
                        turn was in one of his most contrary moods, and took pains to disagree with
                        the preacher about everything.
                    "It is a beautiful day," said Whittaker at last, as he was saying good-bye,
                        resolved perhaps to say one thing which his friend could not controvert.
                    "Yes, nice day," growled Adams, "but a weather-breeder."
                    This contradictoriness in the shoe-maker took all the hopefulness out of
                        Whittaker. The last words seemed ominous. He returned home dejected, and
                        when Twonnet essayed to cheer him and to give him an opportunity for
                        conversation by saying that it was a beautiful day, he startled himself by
                        replying, with a sigh:
                    "Yes, but a weather-breeder."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV.
                    CARPET-RAGS AND RIBBONS.
                    "IT seems to meï¿½"
                    It was Mrs. Henrietta Hanks speaking to her faithful Jemima on the day after
                        the events recorded in the previous chapter of this story. Jemima and her
                        mistress were cutting up all manner of old garments and sewing them into
                        carpet-rags, while Bonaparte Hanks, whose name is better known to our
                        readers in its foreshortened form as Bobo, was rolling the yellow balls of
                        carpet-rags across the floor after the black ones, and clapping his hands in
                        a silly delight.
                    "It seems to me," said Mrs. Hanks, "that Mark and Roxy will make a match of
                        it."
                    "Umph," said Jemima. She did not say "umph,"ï¿½nobody says that; but she gave
                        forth one of those guttural utterances which are not put down in the
                        dictionary. The art of alphabetic writing finds itself quite unequal to the
                        task of grappling with such words, and so we write others which nobody ever
                        uses, such as umph and eh and ugh, as algebraic signs to represent the unknown quantity
                        of an expressive and perhaps unique objurgation. Wherefore, let "umph,"
                        which Jemima did not say, equal the intractable, undefinable,
                        not-to-be-spelled word which she did use. And that undefinable word was in
                        its turn an algebraic symbol for a whole sentence, a formula for general,
                        contemptuous, and indescribable dissent.
                    "He goes there a good deal," replied Mrs. Hanks, a little subdued by Jemima's
                        mysterious grunt.
                    
                    "I thought he'd made a burnt sackerfice of hisself and laid all on the altar,
                        and was agoin' off to missionate among the Texicans," said Jemima, prudently
                        reserving her heavier shot to the last, and bent on teasing her
                        opponent.
                    "Well, I don't imagine that'll come to anything," said Mrs. Hanks. "Young
                        Christians in their first love, you know, always want to be better than they
                        ought, and I don't think Mark ought to throw away his great opportunities.
                        Think how much good he might do in Congress; and then, you know, a Christian
                        congressman is such an ornamentï¿½toï¿½to the church."
                    "An' to all his wife's relations besides," chuckled the wicked Jemima. "But
                        for my part, I don't 'low he's more'n a twenty-'leventh part as good as
                        Roxy. She's jam up all the time, and he's good by spells and in
                        streaksï¿½one of the fitty and jerky kind."
                    "Jemima, you oughtn't to talk that way." Mrs. Hanks always pitted her anger
                        and her slender authority against Jemima's rude wit. "You don't know but
                        Mark 'll come to be my nephew, and you ought to have more respect for my
                        feelings."
                    "They haint no immegiate danger of that," answered Jemima,
                        with emphasis. "He may come to be your nephew to be sure, and the worl' may stop off short all to wunst and come
                        to a eend by Christmas. But neither on 'em's likely enough to make it wuth
                        while layin' awake to think about it."
                    "How do you know?"
                    "Well, I went over arter Bobo yesterday evenin',* an' what d'ye think
                        I see?"
                            * "Evening," in
                            the Ohio valley and in the South, is used in its primary sense of the
                            later afternoon, not as in the eastern states, to signify the time just
                            after dark.
                    
                    
                    Mrs. Hanks did not inquire, so Jemima was obliged to proceed on her own
                        account.
                    "I see Mr. Whittaker a-comin' out of the house, with his face all in a flash, like as ef he'd been a-talkin' sumpin pertikular,
                        an' he spoke to me kinder shaky and trimblin like. An' when I come in, I see
                        Roxy's face sort a red and white in spots, and her eyes lookin' down and to
                        one sides, and anywheres but straight,ï¿½kinder wander'n' roun' onsartain,
                        like's ef she wus afeared you'd look into 'em and see sumpin you hadn't
                        orter."
                    "Well, I do declare!" Whenever Mrs. Hanks found herself
                        entirely at a loss for words and ideas she proceeded after this formula to
                            declare. She always declared that she did declare, but
                        never declared what she declared.
                    "Well, I do declare!" she proceeded after a pause.
                    "Jemimy Dumbleton, if that don't beat the Dutch! for you to go prying into
                        people's houses, and peeping into their eyes and guessing their secrets, and
                        then to run around tattling them all over town to everybody, andï¿½"
                    But the rest of this homily will never be known, for at this critical moment
                        the lad with the ambitious name, who was engaged in developing his military
                        genius by firing carpet-rag cannon-balls in various directions and watching
                        their rebound, made a shot which closed the squabble between Mrs. Hanks and
                        her help. He bowled a bright red ballï¿½relic of an old flamel
                        shirtï¿½through the middle of a screen which covered the fire-place in the
                        summer. When he heard the crashing of the ball through the paper he set up a
                        shout of triumph, clapping his hands together, but when he saw that his
                        missile did not come back from its hiding-place, he stood looking in
                        stupefied curiosity at the screen, the paper of which had almost closed over
                        the  rent. He was quite unable to account for
                        the sudden and total eclipse of his red ball.
                    Mrs. Hanks saw with terror the screen, which had cost the unskilled hands of
                        herself and Jemima two or three hours of cutting and planning and pasting,
                        destroyed at a blow. Mischief done by responsible hands has this
                        compensation, that one has the great relief of scolding, but one would as
                        well scold the wind as to rebuke so irresponsible an agent as Bobo. Mrs.
                        Hanks seized him by the collar and shook him, then ran to the screen and put
                        her hands behind it, holding the pieces in place as one is prone to do in
                        such a case. It is the vague, instinctive expression of the wish that by
                        some magic the injury might be recalled. Then she looked at her late
                        antagonist, Jemima, for sympathy, and then she looked at the rent and
                        uttered that unspellable interjection made by resting the tongue against the
                        roof of the mouth and suddenly withdrawing it explosively. One writes it "
                        tut-tut-tut," but that is not it at all.
                    Bobo fretted a little, as he generally did after being shaken up in this way,
                        but having recovered his red ball, he was on the point of dashing it through
                        the screen again, when his mother prudently took it away from him, put on
                        his cap, led him to the door and said:
                    "Go to Roxy."
                    "Go to Roxy!" cried the little fellow, starting down the path, repeating the
                        words over and over to himself as he went, as though he found it needful to
                        revive instantly his feeble memory of his destination.
                    Having thus comfortably shed her maternal responsibilities, Mrs. Hanks
                        proceeded to shed the carpet-rags also, by arraying herself to go out. This
                        was a very simple matter, even for the wife of one of the principal men in
                             the town, for in those good old days of
                        simplicity nothing more elaborate than a calico dress and sun-bonnet was
                        needed to outfit a lady for shopping. Mrs. Hanks's sun-bonnet was soon
                        adjusted, and she gave Jemima a fare-well look, expressive of her horror of
                        gossiping propensities, and then proceeded to where the tin sign beside the
                        door read, "Miss Moore, Millinery and Mantuamaker," for the purpose of
                        verifying Jemima's report.
                    Miss Moore was all attention. She showed Mrs. Hanks the latest novelty in
                        scoop-shovel bonnets which she had just brought from Cincinnati, got out her
                        box of ribbons and set it on the table, and assented to everything Mrs.
                        Hanks said with her set formula of "very likely, Mrs. Hanks, very
                        likely."
                    Miss Moore was not at all the conventional old maid. She was one of the mild
                        kind, whose failure to marry came neither from flirting nor from a repellent
                        temper, nor from mere chance' but, if it is needful to account for it at
                        all, from her extreme docility. A woman who says "indeed" and "very likely"
                        to everything, is very flavorless. Adams had concluded to marry her now,
                        perhaps, because he liked paradoxes and because Miss Moore with her ready
                        assent, would be the sharpest possible contrast to his contradictoriness.
                        Then, too, she was the only person he could think of with whom he could live
                        without quarreling. She never disputed anything he said, no matter how
                        outrageous. He experimented on her one day by proving to her, conclusively,
                        that polygamy was best and according to Scripture, and when he had done and
                        looked to see her angry, she smiled and said, "Very likelyï¿½very likely,
                        indeed."
                    Now that the long-becalmed bark of Miss Moore was about to sail into the
                        looked-for have, she set all her  pennons
                        flying. This call from Mrs. Hanks, who was the sister of the first Mrs.
                        Adams, seemed to her very significant. She became more complaisant than ever
                        before. If Mrs. Hanks thought the orange ribbon a little too bright, Miss
                        Moore said, "very likely, indeed." If Mrs. Hanks thought the blue just the
                        thing, Miss Moore was again impressed and said, "very likely." But when Mrs.
                        said that on the whole the blue would not do, Miss Moore thought so,
                        too.
                    At last Mrs. Hanks pushed back her sun-bonnet, fingered the rolls of ribbon
                        absently, and approached the point of attack.
                    "Well, Miss Moore, they do say you're not going to be Miss Moore always."
                    The milliner smiled and blushed and bridled a little, and then gave way and
                        tittered. For when a woman's courtship comes late, the omitted emotions of
                        her girlhood are all interpolated farther on, and it is no affectation for
                        her to act like a young girl. Young girl she is in all the fluttering
                        emotions of a young girl. Only the fluttering does not seem to us so pretty
                        and fitting as it might have been twenty years earlier.
                    "Well, I suppose Roxy won't trouble you long."
                    Miss Moore looked mysterious.
                    "Very likely, indeed," she replied, and then added with a blush, "I've heard
                        she has a beau." Miss Moore had heard only of Mark's attentions, but the
                        suspicious Mrs. Hanks was now on the track of Whittaker.
                    "Mr. Whittaker?" she queried.
                    "Very likely." This was said partly from habit and partly to cover her real
                        surprise at hearing the name of Whittaker. But this mechanical assent did
                        not satisfy the inquisitive lady.
                    
                    "Now do you know anything about it, Miss Moore? Don't say
                        'very likely' but tell me plainly."
                    Miss Moore was cornered. She did not want to tell a lie, for Miss Moore was
                        as truthful as a persson of her mild temper could be. But she was very loth
                        to confess her ignorance and thus lose something of her importance in the
                        eyes of Mrs. Hanks.
                    "Well, being's it's you, Mrs. Hanksï¿½being's it's you"ï¿½Miss Moore spoke as
                        though she were going to sell a bonnet under priceï¿½"I don't mind telling
                            you the plain truth without any double-and-twisting. I
                        tell you plainly 't I shouldn't be surprised 'f there was something in that, now I come to think of it. Very likely,
                        indeed."
                    With this Mrs. Hanks had to be content, for to all further inquiries Miss
                        Moore returned only her stereotyped assent.
                    At last Mrs. Hanks turned away from the ribbons without buying and said:
                    "Well, I must be going."
                    "Very likely," said Miss Moore from sheer habit. And then, too, she was
                        turning over in her mind the intelligence Mrs. Hanks had given her, and what
                        a nice morsel it would be to tell the wife of the ruling elder in Mr.
                        Whittaker's church.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV.
                    MARK'S MISSION.
                    "YOU don't say so." It was Sheriff Lathers who spoke, as
                        he did so, putting his boots up on the mantel-piece, leaning back in his
                        chair and spitting in the fire-placeï¿½expectorating by way of facilitating
                        the expression of his ideas. He never could say anything of great importance
                        without stopping to spit, and his little clique of hangers-on knew that when
                        Major Tom Lathers thus loosened his mental machinery he was about to say
                        something quite oracular. It was the signal for general silence and intense
                        attention on the part of the bottle-nosed deputy and other interested
                        disciples of the eminent and astute political philosopher whose misfortune
                        it was that he must repose his boots on the poplar mantel-piece in the
                        sheriff's office in Luzerne, rather than on the sofas in the United States
                        Senate Chamber, for which last position of repose nature had clearly
                        intended him. But while I have thus digressed the philosopher has run his
                        sharp gray eyes in a scrutinizing way around the circle of admiring loafers,
                        has rammed his fists into his pockets, corrugated his intellectual brow,
                        resumed his meditative stare at the fire-place, in which there are the
                        charred relies of the last fire it contained, destined to remain until the
                        next fire shall be lighted in the fall. And now he is ready to speak.
                    "Well, I'll be swinged!" Here he paused. Pauses of this sort whet people's
                        appetites. He looked about  him once more to
                        be sure that he had now fairly arrested the whole-hearted attention of his
                        devout followers.
                    "I didn't believe no ways, as Mark Bonamy would go, and he wouldn't a gone a
                        step ef the ole man hadn't a threatened. Mark's one of this 'ere kind: you
                        can coax him and tole him with a yer of corn, but jist try to drive him and
                        he won't. 'Git up,' says you, 'I won't,' says he; 'Git up there,' says you, 'I'll be dogged ef I do,' says he, and lets his
                        heels fly and you keel over backward. I tried drivin' and tolin' last summer
                        and he kicked up every time I tried the spurs onto him. But he's goin' to
                        Texas shore enough, they say. That'll wear out soon and he'll be back here,
                        like the prodigal son, eatin' swine's flesh with the rest of us."
                    Here he gave a knowing look at each of his auditors and received a
                        significant blink in return.
                    Just at this point Mark Bonamy himself came in to attend to some business
                        with the sheriff's deputy.
                    "Good morning, Major," he said, half-conscious at once that he had
                        interrupted some conversation about himself.
                    "Howdy, Mark? Goin' to Texas, shore as shootin', so they say?"
                    "Yes." This with some hesitation, as of a man who would fain make an avowal
                        with reserve lest he should want to creep out of it.
                    "Well, Mark," here Lathers paused, placed his feet on the mantel-piece again
                        and again performed the preliminary rite of expectoration, "I do say that
                        they aint many folks that gives up more'n you do in goin' away on a fool
                        mission to convert the heathen. Now, Mark, it mayn't be a bad move after all. Texas is a small republic, and you may come to
                        be president there, like Joseph did in the land of Canaan. Hey? And Texas
                        may be hitched on  behind Uncle Sam's
                        steamboat some day as a sort of yawl. In which case look out for Mark
                        Bonamy, United States Senator. It's better to be capt'in of a yawl than
                        deckhand on board the 'General Pike.' I don't know whether you're such a fool after all. Joseph didn't go down into Egypt
                        for nothing. He had his eye on the corn."
                    Here Lathers winked at the deputy's luminous nose, and then looked seriously
                        at Bonamy. Somehow Mark, at this moment, felt ashamed of his mission, and
                        was quite willing to have Lathers impute to him interested designs rather
                        than to appear to the eyes of that elevated moral philosopher a man who was
                        somewhat disinterested and therefore a fool. The real chameleon is a
                        sensitive vanity, prone to change color with every change of
                        surrounding.
                    Mark Bonamy was not yet a licensed preacher, nor even an exhorter, for his
                        probation of six months had not expired. He exhorted in meeting by general
                        consent, but as a layman. A glowing account of his abilities and of his
                        missionary enthusiasm had been sent to Bishop Hedding, who immediately
                        booked him in his mind as suited to some dangerous and difficult rï¿½le; for
                        Hedding looked on men as a chess-player does upon his pieces, he weighed
                        well the difference between a knight and a rook, and especially between a
                        piece with great powers and a mere pawn. The death of Dr. Martin Ruter had
                        weakened the Texan mission. In Mark, as described to him, he saw a man of
                        force who might in time prove of the utmost value to the church in that new
                        republic. So he wrote to Mark, asking if he would proceed in the autumn to
                        Texas and take a place as second man on a circuit of some five hundred miles
                        around, with forty-seven preaching places. The letter came at the right
                        moment, for Bonamy had just returned from the great camp-meeting in Moore's
                        Woods,  with all his religious enthusiasm and
                        missionary zeal at white heat. He had renewed for the tenth time in six
                        months his solemn consecration of himself to some great work, had made a
                        public and penitent confession of his backslidings, and resolved to grow
                        cold no more. And of all his spiritual leaders none were wise enough to know
                        and point out to him that this keying himself higher than his impulsive
                        nature would bear, was one of his chief perils. Reactions were inevitable
                        while he continued to be Mark Bonamy.
                    But while he was thus, as Cartwright would have said, "under a shouting
                        latitude," there came the letter from the great bishop like the voice of God
                        telling him to leave his father's house, and to get him out into the
                        wilderness to seek the lost sheep. Many a man gets committed to some high
                        and heroic course in his best moment, often wondering afterward by what
                        inspiratin he was thus raised above himself. Happy is he whose opportunity
                        of decision finds him at high-water mark. Happy, if he have stability enough
                        to stand by his decision after it is made.
                    Mark was not without debate and hesitation. He might even now have faltered
                        but for two things. The influence of Roxy and of his father alike impelled
                        him to accept. As soon as the word came to Colonel Bonamy that Mark had
                        received such a letter, he did his best, unwittingly, to confirm him in his
                        purpose by threatening him again with disinheritance. It only needed to
                        awaken the son's combativeness to give his resolution strength and
                        consistency. Even the religious devotion of a martyr may gain tone from
                        inborn oppugnancy.
                    Then there was the influence of Roxy. Her relation to Mark was only that of a
                        confidential religious friend.
                    
                    He had had occasion to consult her rather frequently, sometimes when meeting
                        her on the street, sometimes calling at her house. But how often does one
                        have to remark that mere friendship between a young man and a young woman is
                        quite impossible for any considerable time. There is no King Knud who can
                        say to the tide of human affection, "thus far and no farther." Mark's love
                        for Roxy had ceased to be Platonicï¿½he was not quite Plato. But how should
                        he even confess to himself that he loved Roxy. For loving Roxy and going on
                        a mission to the Brazos River were quite inconsistent. A man was not
                        supposed to want a wife to help him fight Indians, rattlesnakes, Mexican
                        desperadoes and starvation. And to give up the mission for Roxy's sake would
                        have been to give up Roxy also. He knew dimly that it was only in the light
                        of a self-sacrificing hero that she admired him. Perhaps he unconsciously
                        recognized also that this admiration of him on her part had served to keep
                        his purpose alive.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI.
                    AFTER THE MEETING.
                    ON the Wednesday evening following Mark's reception of his
                        call to go to Texas and his talk with Lathers, he would fain see Roxy. It
                        was the evening of the prayer-meeting, and if he had been prone to neglect
                        it, he would have found Roxy nowhere else. But he had no inclination in his
                        present state of feeling to go away from the meeting.
                    The brethren had heard of the call to the mission, and most touching prayers
                        were offered for his welfare and success. Mark himself prayed with deep and
                        genuine pathos. Toward the last the minister called on Roxy to pray, and she
                        who had been born full of the missionary spirit, who would have rejoiced to
                        lay down her life for the lost sheep in the wilderness, who had been the
                        source of most of Mark's inspiration, began to pray, not with her accustomed
                        directness and fervor, but with a faltering voice. Twonnet's fortune-telling
                        had awakened in Roxy a sense of the strength of her own feeling for Mark,
                        and with this came a maidenly delicacy. She faltered, hesitated, picked her
                        words, prayed in platitudes, until at last, after mentioning Mark only in
                        the most general way, she proceeded to pray for those to whom he was sent.
                        All the force of her strong nature found utterance in the cry of the lost,
                        and when she ceased everybody was weeping And when the brethren and sisters
                        rose from their  knees, the old schoolmaster
                        in the amen corner started to sing: 
                            
                                "From Greenland's icy mountains;"
                            
                         and as everybody sang it with feeling, Mark felt ashamed that he should
                        ever have thought of any other life than that of a missionary. It were
                        better to die of malarial fever among the rowdies and rattlesnakes of the
                        Brazos River, than to live a thousand years in ease and plenty. And when at
                        the close of the meeting the military notes of "Am I a Soldier of the
                        Cross?" resounded through the old meeting-house, Mark regretted that so much
                        time would intervene before he could reach the field of battle.
                    In this state of enthusiasm he walked home with Roxy. And this enthusiasm
                        lifted him almost to the height of Roxy's perpetual exaltation. They talked
                        of that in which they both were interested, and is it strange that they were
                        drawn the one to the other by their community of feeling? Mark did not even
                        now distrust himself; he did not once imagine that there was any difference
                        between his flush of zeal, and the life-long glow of eager unselfishness and
                        devoutness that was the very essence of the character of Roxy, He could not
                        distinguish between himselfï¿½thin comet that he was, renewing his
                        ever-waning heat, first by the fire of this sun and then by the radiance of
                        thatï¿½and Roxy, the ever-burning fixed star whose fire of worship and
                        charity was within herself. But taking himself at the estimate she put upon
                        him, he rejoiced in having a friend worthy to sympathize with him, and when
                        he parted with her, he pressed Roxy's hand and said:
                    "Oh, Roxy! if you were only going with me! You make me brave. I am better
                        when I am with you.
                    
                    Think of the good we might do together. Some day I shall come back for you if
                        you'll let me."
                    He held her hand in both of his, and he could feel her trembling.
                    His voice was full of pleading, and Roxy was in a flutter of mingled
                        admiration, pity, and love. That this brave servant of the Lord, taking his
                        life in hand, casting ambition, friends, and property behind him, should
                        appeal to her! She dared not speak, and she could not pray. In a moment
                        Bonamy had kissed her hand. A maidenly recoil seized her, she withdrew her
                        hand, opened the gate, and ran up the walk between the rows of
                        pretty-by-nights and touch-me-nots. It was not until she stood in the door
                        with her hand on the latch-string, that she turned toward her companion and
                        said softly, in a voice suffused with emotion:
                    "Good-night, Mark!"
                    And then she went into the house with her soul in chaos. Zeal, duty, and love
                        neither contended nor agreed. The scrupulous girl could understand nothing,
                        see nothing. Pitying thoughts of Whittaker strove with her thoughts of
                        Mark.
                    And that night she dreamed that she had set out to find the lost sheep that
                        had left the ninety-and-nine and strayed in the wilderness, and Mark had set
                        out with her. But ever they became more and more separated in the
                        thorn-thickets of Texas, until at last Mark left her to travel on alone
                        while he gave over the search. And the thickets grew higher and more dense,
                        her feet were pierced with thorns, and her body exhausted with weariness.
                        She saw panthers and catamounts and rattlesnakes and alligators and
                        indescribable creatures of terror about her; they hissed at her and rushed
                        upon her, so that she shuddered
                    
                    as she pushed on and on through the dense brake, wondering whether the poor
                        lost sheep were not already devoured. But at last she came upon the object
                        of her search environed with wild beasts. Trembling with terror she broke
                        through and laid hold on the far-wandering sheep,ï¿½the monsters fled before
                        her and the impregnable fold all at once inclosed her and the lost one. Then
                        she discovered that the lost whom she had saved, was, by some
                        transformation, Mark himself. And even while the Shepherd was commending
                        her, the trembling girl awoke.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII.
                    A REMONSTRANCE.
                    AFTER her visit to the millinery and mantua-makery of Miss
                        Moore, Mrs. Hanks debated with herself what to do. She could not consult
                        Jemima, for Jemima belonged to the enemy. But upon debating variouns plans,
                        she resolved to see Roxy herself. She was Roxy's aunt, and the aunt ought to
                        have some influence with the motherless niece, she reasoned. She was a
                        little ashamed to go to Roxy now, it was so long since she had entered the
                        old loghouse which had sheltered her childhood in the days when wandering
                        Indians still traversed at intervals the streets of the new village of
                        Luzerne. But then she had been so busy with her own children, Roxy ought to
                        make allowance for that.
                    These explanations she made to Roxy when she made her call on the next day
                        after the prayer-meeting. She couldn't come before. And then Roxy was so
                        steady that she didn't need looking after. It wasn't every girl that could
                        keep a house so clean and do so much for her father. All this talk troubled
                        Roxy. She was simple-minded and direct, and the lurking suspicion of
                        ulterior purpose in her aunt's words, and the consciousness of having
                        something to conceal, disturbed her.
                    "I understand, Roxy," she said at last, "that you've had one or two beaus
                        lately. Now you know that I'm in the place of a mother to you, and I hope
                        you won't do anything about marrying without consulting me."
                    
                    Roxy bent over her sewing and grew red in the face. Mrs. Hanks interpreted
                        this flush of indignation as a blush.
                    "I suppose you are already engaged," she said, with an air of offense. "I
                        don't think you ought to treat your mother's sister in that way. I was told
                        that you were engaged to Mr. Whittaker. I must say I don't think it the best
                        you can do."
                    "I am not engaged to Mr. Whittaker or to anybody else," said Roxy, giving way
                        to her rising anger, and breaking her needle. "I wish people would mind
                        their own business."
                    "Well, Roxy, I must say that is not a nice way to treat me when I come to
                        give you advice. If I can't talk to you, who can?"
                    Roxy's sense of injury and neglect which she thought she had conquered by
                        prayer all revived now, and she bit her lip.
                    "I tell you plainly, Roxy, that if you marry Mr. Whit-taker you'll get a cold
                        Presbyterian that does not believe in real heart religion. They educate
                        their ministers without asking whether they have a real divine call or not.
                        Some of them, I expect, are not soundly converted. And you know how you'll
                        suffer for the means of grace if you join the Presbyterians. They won't have
                        any praying or speaking by women. They don't have any class-meetings, and I
                        don't think they have that deep depth of godliness you
                        know that we Methodists believe in. And they don't allow shouting or crying,
                        and that's a quenching of the spirit. So I say. For David says in the Psalms
                        to shout and to cry aloud, and to make a joyful noise unto the Lord. Now, I
                        do hope you won't marry a cold-blooded Presbyterian that believes in
                        predestination, and that a certain number was born to be damned. And little
                        children,  too, for the Confession of Faith
                        says that children not a span long are in hell, andï¿½"
                    "The Confession of Faith don't say that," said Roxy.
                    "Oh! you've been reading it, have you. I didn't know you'd gone so far. Now,
                        I say that there's some good Christians in the
                        Presbyterian church, but a Methodist that leaves her own church to join the
                        Presbyterians has generally backslid beforehand. And a girl that changes her
                        religion to get a husbandï¿½"
                    "Who said I meant to change my religion to get a husband?" Roxy was now
                        fiercely angry. "If you're going to talk that way, I will not stay and
                        listen," and the girl drew herself up proudly; but her sensitive conscience
                        smote her in a moment for her anger, and she sat down again, irresolute.
                    "Well, Roxy, you've got your father's temper along with your mother's
                        religion. Though for that matter I think a temper's a good thing. But when
                        you've got a chance to marry such a Methodist as Mark Bonamy, now, I don't
                        see why you should take a poor Presbyterian preacher that hasn't got a roof
                        to cover his head. Mark'll get over his mission soon. Missionary fever with
                        young Christians is like wild oats with young sinnersï¿½it's soon over. You
                        can cool Mark down if you try. Show him how much good he can do if he'll
                        stay here and inherit his father's wealth. But Mark'll get his share anyway.
                        The old man won't leave him out. And now, Roxy, you'll get over your freaks
                        as I have got over mine, and if you miss your chance you'll be sorry for it.
                        It isn't every day a girl whose father's a poor shoe-maker and who lives in
                        a log-house, gets a man with a good farm and a brick house, and a chance of
                        going to Congress or getting to be a bishopï¿½"
                    
                    "Oh! Aunt Henrietta, hush!" Roxy was on her feet now. "I've got nothing to do
                        with Mr. Whittaker or Mark, and if I had, you've no business talking that
                        way. If you don't hush I'll say something awful."
                    "Well, I declare! For a girl as religious as you, that's a
                        pretty how-do-ye-do, ain't it, now?"
                    Here Roxy left the room to keep herself from saying something awful, leaving
                        Mrs. Henrietta Hanks to gather her cape about her shoulders, put on her
                        sun-bonnet and depart with the comfortable feeling that she "had cleared her
                        skirts anyhow." The faithful discharge of a duty disagreeable to others
                        maketh the heart of the righteous to rejoice.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII.
                    GOSSIP AND GIGGLING.
                    MISS MOORE was a gossip of the
                        good-natured kind. She never told anything for the sake of harming anybody.
                        She was as innocent in her gossip as she was in her habit of plucking out
                        her front hair with tweezers to make her forehead intellectual. The
                        milliner's shop in a village is in some sort a news-depot. People bring
                        hither their items of news and carry away whatever has been left here by
                        others. It is a fair exchange. The milliner has the start of everybody else;
                        for who should know so well as she whether Mrs. Greathouse will wear cherry
                        ribbon or brown? Who knows the premonitory symptoms of a wedding so well as
                        the skillful woman who trims the bonnet? And shall we condemn gossip? Only
                        where it is thoughtless or malicious. For without the ventilating currents
                        of gossip the village would be a stagnant pool. We are all gossips. The man
                        who reads the daily paper may despise the "tattle" of the town, but he
                        devours the tattle of the reporter who gets his livelihood by gossip.
                        Whether we talk about a big world or a little one, it is the gossip about
                        others that saves us from becoming eremites in the wilderness of our own
                        egotism.
                    But did the red-bird that sang under Miss Moore's window that morning ask
                        whether his notes were a delight to any one's ears? Or did he just whistle
                        because whistling is a necessity of red-birdism? Miss Moore for her part did
                        not ask whether her function was of use to the community  or not. It was not her place to philosophize
                        about gossips, but to gossip,ï¿½an employment in which she received the
                        moral support of the best citizens. And in a village the general consent of
                        the best citizens is of more weight than the decalogue.
                    But why should anything so clearly beneficial as gossip be carried on
                        clandestinely? Why is a bit of gossip told in a voice that has something sly
                        and delightfully wicked about it? Is it that one enjoys copyrighted
                        information, which one is not to tell,ï¿½or at most not with the name of the
                        informant attached? Or is it that one likes to fancy oneself doing something
                        forbidden?
                    At any rate Miss Moore, having possession of a bit of information which she
                        knew would delight Mrs. Highbury, the wife of the principal ruling elder of
                        Whittaker's church, was perplexed to find a pretext for calling on Mrs.
                        Highbury that she might not seem to have come on purpose to tell tales.
                        Experienced gossip that she was, she could not get over the notion that her
                        traffic in information was illicit. She might have called on Mrs. Highbury
                        out-right; for there is no caste feeling in a village that proscribes the
                        milliner. A woman was none the worse in the Hoosier Luzerne in 1841 for the
                        possession of that kind of skill which we call a trade. But Miss Moore, at
                        last, remembered something that she wanted to ask Mrs. Highbury's advice
                        about, or at least she remembered something concerning which she contrived
                        to make herself believe she wanted information or counsel. So Miss Moore
                        went up under the grape-vines that led to Mr. Highbury's door, and then
                        around over the stone-paved walk to the backdoor, where the wide arbor
                        shaded the broad pavement, in the middle of which stood the cistern with its
                        hook in readiness for use.
                    
                    Miss Moore went in over the broad clean porch into the sitting-room and was
                        received cordially; for, besides her importance as a milliner, she was also
                        a member of the Presbyterian church, and in those days of polemical
                        animosities a small and somewhat beleaguered denomination held closely
                        together.
                    "I thought I'd run over, Mrs. Highbury, and ask you about the cape to your
                        bonnet. How long do you think it ought to be?"
                    Mrs. Highbury had a habit of leaving such things to the superior judgment of
                        the milliner. For the milliner to throw the decision back on her, was like
                        asking her to solve a problem in geometry. And so the plump, wellfed little
                        lady sank down into her arm-chair and began rocking herself so energetically
                        as to lift her feet off the floor at each tilt backward. Her mind was
                        exhausting itself in thinking how impossible it was that she should ever
                        decide what should be the length of a piece of rosecolored silk at the base
                        of a scoop-shovel bonnet.
                    "I declare to goodness, I don't know, Miss Moore." Here Mrs. Highbury opened
                        her fan, and began to ply it and rock more vigorously and cheerfully than
                        before. "Did you see the one that lady from Cincinnati had on at church, on
                        Sunday?"
                    Of course, Miss Moore had noted every bonnet in the church. She was not such
                        a heathen as not to make the most of her "Sabbath and sanctuary privileges."
                        But she did not reply to Mrs. Highbury's question. For here was the
                        opportunity she had sought. It was a dangerous leap from the cape of a straw
                        bonnet in church to the parson's love affair, but there might not come a
                        better opportunity.
                    "Yes; but now you speak of church, reminds me. Did
                    
                    
                        you notice any change in Mr. Whittaker's appearance on
                        Sunday?"
                    "No, I didn't Why?"
                    Miss Moore felt her superiority now.
                    "Did you think he had the look of a man just engaged to be married?"
                    "You don't tell me Mr. Whittaker's going to be married," cried the stout
                        little lady, forgetting to rock and allowing the toes of her shoes to rest
                        on the floor.
                    "Well; I don't say anything about it. I've heard something of the kind."
                    "Who to, for goodness gracious' sake?"
                    "Well, that's a delicate question, especially in view of my peculiar
                        circumstances; I suppose I oughtn't to say anything."
                    Miss Moore was human, and she knew that so long as she had a secret which
                        curious Mrs. Highbury did not know, that lady was her humble servant.
                    "Yes; but you must tell me," pleaded Mrs. Highbury. "Mr. Whittaker ought not
                        to marry without consulting the session. And if he consults the session I
                        will know, I suppose. You can't keep secrets between man and wife."
                    "Very likely. But you know with me it's a sort of a family secret. Not
                        exactly a family secretï¿½" here Miss Moore tittered and stammered. "Well,
                        you know, I didn't mean to let my own secrets out, but I suppose everybody
                        knows. I never did see such a horrible town for talk as
                        this is. They wont let anybody's private affairs alone." Here Miss Moore's
                        face reddened, and she smothered a girlish giggle.
                    Mrs. Highbury suddenly leaned forward so as to bring her heels on the floor
                        and began to fan herself again.
                    "Why, Rachel Moore, what've your family affairs got to
                    
                    do with Mr. Whittaker's marrying? Is he going to marry you? You're too
                        old,ï¿½I mean you're already engaged to Mr. Adams, they say. What do you
                        mean? Don't be so mysterious, or folks 'll think you've lost your
                        senses."
                    "I believe I have," said Miss Moore, and then she burst into another fit of
                        laughing, while the aristocratic little dumpling rocked away again for dear
                        life. Rocking was her substitute for thinking.
                    Miss Moore's habitual propriety and gravity soon came to her rescue, and she
                        attempted to explain to Mrs. Highbury that by "family secret" she meant to
                        alludeï¿½cheï¿½heï¿½to the familyï¿½cheï¿½heï¿½with which she was to become
                        theï¿½theï¿½cheï¿½heï¿½he,ï¿½or rather that Mr. Whittaker was not going to
                        cheï¿½heï¿½marry her,ï¿½but that it was somebody else who was going to be a
                        cheï¿½heï¿½heï¿½he,ï¿½that is, he was going cheï¿½heï¿½heï¿½heï¿½he.
                    Poor Mrs. Highbury did not know whether to laugh or get angry, and, being in
                        doubt, she took a middle courseï¿½she rocked herself. Her round face had a
                        perplexed and injured look, as she waited for Miss Moore to explain
                        herself.
                    "I do believe that I am cheï¿½heï¿½heï¿½he," said Miss Moore.
                    "I know you are, Rachel. Why can't you control yourself and tell a straight
                        story? Who is Mr. Whittaker going to marry; you, or your mother? You say
                        it's in your family."
                    "My mother! Oh! cheï¿½heï¿½he. Not my mother, but my cheï¿½heï¿½he."
                    "Your cheï¿½heï¿½he! What do you mean?"
                    "Not my cheï¿½he mother, but my daughter, cheï¿½heï¿½he."
                    "Your daughter! Why, Miss Moore, you ought to be ashamed of yourself."
                    
                    "I don't mean my cheï¿½he daughter, but my cheï¿½heï¿½heï¿½heï¿½hoo!"
                    By this time, little fat Mrs. Highbury was also laughing convulsively and
                        screaming between her fits of laughter.
                    "What isï¿½what is cheï¿½he, what is your cheï¿½heï¿½he?"
                    "My cheï¿½heï¿½my cheï¿½he step-daughter, that is to be."
                    Mrs. Highbury grew sober and began to wipe her eyes.
                    "You don't mean Roxy Adams?"
                    "Yes, I do."
                    Mrs. Highbury shut her pretty mouth tight. She didn't know whether she
                        approved or disapproved of Roxy Adams. How could she tell what she thought
                        until she heard Mr. Highbury's opinion? For Mrs. Highbury's rï¿½le was that
                        of echo. It might be that Roxy Adams would make a good Presbyterian. It
                        might be that she would corrupt the church. Mrs. Highbury would wait until
                        her husband spoke. Then she would give him back his own opinions with
                        emphasis, and tell her friends that she had "told Mr. Highbury so." People
                        were certain that the little Mrs. II. had great influence with the big Mr.
                        II. Turned him round her little finger.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX.
                    THE RULING ELDER INTERFERES.
                    MR. HIGHBURY was a Presbyterian of the
                        Western Pennsylvania stamp. Generations of training in the Calvinistic
                        formulas and the Presbyterian forms had produced, perhaps, a hereditary
                        habit of thought. He could not see anything in any other light than that of
                        his traditional opinions. Above all, these mushroom Methodists who did
                        nothing decently or in order, were to be condemmed. To admit that any large
                        number of them were really Christian would be to suppose that God had chosen
                        to convert more people through unsound doctrines tending to Pelagianism than
                        he had through the preaching of the true doctrines of divine sovereignty and
                        unconditional election. The fact that so many Methodists backslid was to him
                        evidence beyond question that they had not much of God's grace among
                        them.
                    When Mrs. Highbury told him what Miss Moore had said, Mr. Highbury felt that
                        the time for rebuke and reproof had come. The revival of the past winter had
                        irritated him. The large numbers that had joined the Methodists were an
                        eye-sore; for churches of differing seets in a small town are very like
                        rival corner grocers, each watching with jealous eye the increase of his
                        neighbor's trade.
                    After debating the matter for a day or two and growing gradually warm with
                        righteous indignation as he reflected,  "Mr.
                        Highbury put on his hat on Thursday morning and walked down the street
                        toward Lefaure's. The singing locusts were making their sweet, monotonous,
                        drowsy din in the air; the great running rose-bushes were climbing up to the
                        second-story windows with their arms full of white and red and yellow roses;
                        there were faint sounds of the pastoral music of tinkling cow-bells in the
                        distance, and on either hand the green hills grew hazy where they were
                        touched by the blue sky flecked with white clouds. But no sound of singing
                        locust, of faint far-away cow bells and crowing chickens, or sight of rich
                        rose-trees or vista of high wooded hill and of soft white cloud sailing
                        through the infinite ocean of deep blue sky, touched the soul of the ruling
                        elder. Highbury's horizon was narrow; there were no objects within it but
                        himself, his family, his trade, and his church. All else was far away in the
                        dim distance like the unnoted sound of the cow-bells. For there is a sky in
                        every man's soul, and some souls are near-sighted.
                    On the other hand, Mr. Whittaker's sky was clear. He came out of his room at
                        nine o'clock, walked along the porch and stood looking at the hills on the
                        other side of the river, scanning the green apples in the young trees near
                        at hand, and watching the white clouds, not in the sky, but floating in the
                        under-sky, which he saw below in the waters of the wide river. He heard
                        faintly the distant crowing of the cocksï¿½even from a mile away, across the
                        river, he could hear them. He heard the cow-bells, and the "chook, chook,"
                        of the red-bird, the conversational "can't, can't" of the cat-bird, whose
                        musical powers had all been exhausted by his matin song. The time for him to
                        see Roxy again was drawing near, and his spirit was full of hope. It seemed
                        to him that his soul was like the great, wide Ohio,ï¿½it mirrored in its
                        depths the glory  of the sky above. Presently
                        old Jacques Dupinï¿½Twonnet's grandfatherï¿½came hobbling out of his room
                        into the sunlight. He was a picturesque figure, with his trowsers of
                        antiquated cut, his loose jacket, and his red yarn cap pointed at the top
                        and tasseled.
                    Full of human kindness and sympathy this morning, Whittaker hurried over to
                        meet the octogenarian, and to inquire how he was.
                    "Comment-vous portez-vous aujour-d'hui?" cried the minister in the deaf old
                        man's ear.
                    "Trï¿½s-bien, vary well, Iï¿½remercie, M'sieur." The old man felt obliged to
                        make an effort to speak in English out of courtesy to Whittaker's feeble
                        French.
                    The minister assisted him to a seat in the large rocking-chair; then he
                        adjusted a stick of wood under the rockers so that the chair would not rock,
                        for the old man could not bear the sense of insecurity which the motion of
                        the chair gave him.
                    "Mr. Weetakare," he began, in a querulous voice, as soon as his feet had been
                        placed upon his foot-stool,ï¿½"Mr. Weetakare, je ne sais quoiï¿½I don't know
                        wat God A'mighty means. Mon frï¿½reï¿½my brothare Guillaume, who was good
                        for somet'in', he die; my cousin Bernard, il est mort aussi, il y a deux
                        ansï¿½it ees so much as two yare past, and my sï¿½ur, she aussi ees gone.
                        Moiï¿½I am not wort' so much as a picayune, and moiï¿½je leef on, on, on.
                        Pardi, I don't know wat God A'mighty ees about to leef to dead dree wat
                        bears no pommes at all and to cut down all de rest. Eh! que pensez-vous,
                        Monsieurï¿½wat you dink?"
                    And then without waiting for Mr. Whittaker to reply, the old man went on:
                    "Wen I was a boy in Suisse, I remembare datï¿½"
                    
                    But it was at the beginning of this reminiscence that Mr. Whittaker's mind
                        wandered entirely away from the old man in the red cap sitting there under
                        the overhanging vines,ï¿½wandered away from his story of boyhood in
                        Switzerland, his garrulous memories of the Pays de Vaud and of the simple
                        mountain life so different from that of his old age on the fertile banks of
                        this great river. Mr. Whittaker heard him not, for all the time his mind
                        went after his heart to the home of the shoe-maker's daughter with its
                        honeysuckle and morning-glory vines and to the morning-glory herself. At
                        last the old man had reached some sort of denouement in his polyglot tale,
                        he tapped Whittaker's knee with his trembling hand and burst into an old
                        man's laughï¿½faint and far down in the throat like the gurgling of
                        subterranean waters.
                    "Wat you dinkï¿½que pensez-vous, Monsieur? Ees it notï¿½haï¿½haï¿½ees it
                        notï¿½heï¿½heï¿½trï¿½s drole?
                    "It is very funny, no doubt," answered the other in some confusion. But at
                        that moment Mr. Highbury was ushered to the porch by Twonnet. After a few
                        minutes of speech with the old man, the ruling elder took the minister's arm
                        and asked for an interview in private, leading his companion to the further
                        end of the long porch, where they sat down upon a bench.
                    Mr. Highbury began about the Methodists, their unsoundness, their illiterate
                        preachers and uninstructed laymen, their reception of all sorts of people
                        without any discrimination. Then he enlarged on the necessity for building
                        up a more intelligent piety and one sound in doctrine and not running into
                        wild excitement.
                    Mr. Whittaker assented.
                    But Mr. Highbury thought that Presbyterians should not associate too much
                        with Methodists.
                    
                    Mr. Whittaker did not say anything.
                    Mr. Highbury thought that Mr. Whittaker would do well not to visit at Adams's
                        again, because it would make talk, andï¿½
                    But just at this critical moment came Twonnet. She had already affected to
                        have much business in the room which opened just behind the seat occupied by
                        the two gentlemen, she had observed closely their countenances, and now she
                        brought a tray of bright striped apples, insisting in her most winning
                        fashion that Mr. Highbury should accept one. The ruling elder was vexed that
                        his speech should have been broken off just when he was drawing it to a
                        focus, but there was no help for it. And besides, he was human, and it was
                        not in his man's nature to be displeased with such distinguished hospitality
                        from so cheery a brunette as Twonnet. She paused after the gentlemen had
                        taken apples to talk a minute with the half impatient Highbury, shaking her
                        brown curls with merry laughter and chatter about nothing at all, and so
                        filling that gentleman's head with a pleasant sense of her presence that he
                        found it hard to resume his severity when her merry eyes were gone.
                    He gathered up his dispersed forces, however, and prepared to return to the
                        charge. But at the disadvantage, now, that the enemy had had time to put
                        himself under arms. Whittaker was slow to arouse, but while Twonnet talked
                        he had been busy guessing the drift of the ruling elder's speech and in
                        growing a little indignant.
                    "I was saying, Mr. Whittakerï¿½aï¿½thatï¿½" resumed Mr. Highbury,
                        hesitantly.
                    "That I ought not to go to Mr. Adams's so often,"ï¿½put in the minister,
                        whose nerves were irritable from the excitement to which he had been
                        subjected of late; "and  I, on my part, insist
                        that I have a right to go to see the man if I find his company
                        agreeable."
                    Mr. Highbury was silent a moment. Who could have dreamed that a minister on
                        three hundred dollars a year would have the pluck to speak to the richest
                        man in his church as though they were at all equals? He would sooner have
                        expected his store-boy to show spirit than Whittaker. What is the use of a
                        moneyed man in a church, if he is not to control the pastor?
                    "But perhaps you do not know," continued the elder, "that your going there so
                        often has started a report that you are engaged to Roxy Adams."
                    Mr. Whittaker was silent. He could truthfully say that he was not betrothed
                        to Roxy. But he felt that this would be a cowardly shirking of the
                        issue.
                    "Now, of course, there is no truth in this report," continued the merchant,
                        in a tone which indicated his belief that there was; "but think how much
                        damage the ideaï¿½the very idea may do us. What a shock it is to our
                        congregation to think of you marrying a girl who was never taught a word of
                        the catechism, who doesn't believe in the doctrine of God's sovereignty, and
                        the election of grace, who sings those wild Methodist songs, and prays in
                        meeting, and even makes speeches in love-feast before a crowded audience.
                        And then sheï¿½"
                    But just here, to Mr. Highbury's vexation, and the minister's relief, Twonnet
                        came upon the stage once more, entering by way of the garden gate, with a
                        nosegay of pinks, and roses, touch-me-nots, and Johnny-jump-ups,
                        intermingled with asparagus twigs, and some old-man-in-green. This she
                        presented to the disturbed Mr. Highbury, asking pardon for interrupting the
                        conversation and requesting him to give the bouquet to Mrs. Highbury for
                        her.
                    
                    She said that she wanted to show Mrs. Highbury which had the finest pinks.
                        Then, as she started away, she turned round to ask Mr. Highbury if he had
                        heard about Mrs. Boone, the poor woman whose husband was a drunkard.
                    "Roxy Adams," she said, with entire innocencyï¿½"Roxy Adams went down there
                        two weeks ago and nursed that poor creature for three days, without leaving
                        her day or night, and without taking more than an hour of sleep at a time. I
                        didn't know anything about it till Mrs. Boone's little boy came up here and
                        brought me a note from Roxy asking for a bottle of wine to keep the old
                        woman alive, for the fever had left her nearly dead. And then I went down to
                        help Roxy, but the old creature wouldn't drink a spoonful of wine and water
                        out of my hand. It was all Roxy, Roxy; and Roxy nursed her as if she'd been
                        her own mother. That's what you might call pure religion and undefiled,
                        isn't it, Mr. Highbury?"
                    "Well, yes, if it came from faith and was not self-righteousness. All our righteousness is as filthy rags, you know. I have no
                        right to judge. Roxy seems to be a Christian."
                    "Doesn't the Bible say we shall know them by their fruits?" returned Twonnet.
                        "For my part, I think if Roxy isn't saved the rest of Luzerne had better
                        give up. Of course, though, I believe in salvation by graceï¿½there's no
                        other chance for such as me."
                    And with that the girl went away laughing, and Mr. Whittaker wondered whether
                        some kind providence had sent her to his rescue, or whether, after all, this
                        mercurial girl had not a depth of finesse in her
                        character. --d he lived under the same roof with her so
                        long without finding out that she was something more than a merry
                        superficial chatterer?
                    
                    Meantime Mr. Highbury now saw that he must change his tack. He could not go
                        on assailing even the theology of Roxy Adams without bringing to an
                        explosion the gathering indignation of the cool New England parson, whose
                        face had been growing redder for some time.
                    "Certainly, what she says about Roxy Adams is true. I wish she was a
                        Presbyterian. Then we might stand some chance of getting Mark Bonamy. Poor
                        fellow! he is dead in love with her. And I'm afraidï¿½you'll excuse me Mr.
                        Whittaker,ï¿½I'm afraid any interference on your part with Mark's prospects
                        there might drive all his good resolutions out of his head. But I must
                        go."
                    For just at that moment Mr. Highbury remembered with a pang that there was to
                        be an "animal show" in town that very day, and that the store must even now
                        be full of country customers. He hurriedly bade Mr. Whittaker good-bye. He
                        hardly took time to shake hands civilly with the dreamy old man in the red
                        cap at the other end of the porch. He left the pinks and touch-me-nots lying
                        on the bench where he had sat, and hastened through the hall out of the door
                        and up the street, noting, as he walked, not the scenery, but the number of
                        wagons standing by the hitching-rails, at either side to the court house
                        square, and calculating how much of "bit" calico and brown sugar, how many
                        clocks, and shoes, and nails, and clothes-lines he might sell during the
                        day.
                    But the minister sat still upon the porch. The last arrow of the retreating
                        assailant had wounded him. His life had been one of severe self-denial. For
                        a few days, he had thought that duty and inclination lay in the same
                        direction. Now, this awful specter of the harm he might do to the eternal
                        welfare of Bonamy stood in his path. In his day men believed in
                        perditionï¿½hell was a very real  and horrible
                        place of everlasting torture. If, now, he should be the means of toppling
                        over poor Mark Bonamy into that abyss, and even then after all should be
                        forgiven, what an awful thing it would be for him to think about in
                        eternity, that he had wrought endless misery to a human soul!
                    The birds, the rose-bushes, the singing locusts and all the sweet and drowsy
                        music of a summer day, and all the beauty of the hills and the placidity of
                        the river seemed to belong to another world now. He was a truant school-boy,
                        who had had a good time. But now he was brought back to take his flogging,
                        and the world did not seem so pleasant any more.
                    Twonnet stood near him when he looked up. The droll girl had set her face
                        into the very expression that was characteristic of Mr. Highbury.
                    "Don't marry a Methodist," she began, mimicking the ruling elder's tone;
                        "don't marry any singing, shouting, shoe-maker's daughter; marry my niece,
                        Caroline, now, she is good and quiet andï¿½"
                    The drollery and mimicking of manner were perfect, but they jarred upon Mr.
                        Whittaker's present state of feeling. He was amazed at this sudden
                        revelation of the real Twonnet; but he was in trouble, and he wanted
                        sympathy, not diversion.
                    "Oh, Twonnet," he cried, pathetically, reaching out his hands in sudden
                        impulse, and seizing hers, "don't make fun. I am sick. I have done wrong.
                        Think what harm I've done, maybe, to Mr. Bonamy."
                    "Mark Bonamy! Pshaw!" said Twonnet. But she went no further. For the
                        minister's voice in appealing thus to her, his act of confidence in taking
                        her hands had touched her heart, and she felt again that old frightful  pang of love or jealousy come back. She
                        longed to comfort the good, troubled man. Why should she plead for Roxy?
                        Roxy had everybody to love her. But who loved Twonnet?
                    The minister suddenly released her hands, and went to his room. But all the
                        drollery was gone from the heart of Twonnet. She opened the gate through the
                        fence, went down betwen the currant-bushes and hollyhocks to the further end
                        of the garden. There she sat down on a little stool beneath a quince-tree,
                        and cried. She who was so strong that she had undertaken to deliver others
                        was weak now. The voice of her friend crying for help had made her helpless;
                        for she was a woman. And much as she declared to herself in this hour that
                        she would never marry a sober, hesitating, severe minister, her heart still
                        gave the lie to her thought as she saw, in her memory, his tearful eyes
                        upturned to her own, and heard him call her name so eagerly.
                    Then she grew angry and said: "What does he ask me to help him in his love
                        affairs for? I'm sure I don't know."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX.
                    A MILLSTONE.
                    THE temptations of a scrupulous man like Whittaker are
                        never gross. The 
                            
                                "Fierce Anthropophagi,
                                Spectre, diaboli,
                                What scared St. Anthony,
                                Hobgoblins, lemures,
                                Dreams of antipodes,
                                Night-riding incubi
                                Troubling the fantasy,"
                            
                         are not for him. But it is a most unhappy thing for a man to be both
                        scrupulous and logical. The combination is bad. The scrupulous man, and
                        especially the scrupulous woman, whose logic is defective, is saved from a
                        thousand snares. On the other hand the severely logical man who is not
                        scrupulous escapes easily. This is how it happens that the harshest creeds
                        do little harm. One man is saved by his laziness, another by his transparent
                        quibbles, while a third walks boldly out the front door, having but a feeble
                        moral sense. Mark Bonamy, for instance, would not have been troubled by
                        Whittaker's doubts. His easy-going egotism, his calm confidence that his own
                        purposes and welfare were of the first importance, would have furnished a
                        premise from which to draw any convenient conclusion. But poor Whittaker was
                        ground between his clear logic on the one hand, and his severe  scruples on the other. He had an instinctive
                        doubt of the security of Mark's religious life. He did not question the
                        doctrine of final perseverance, but then he could not be sure of the
                        genuineness of a conversion. What if he should offend one of these little
                        ones? It were better tha- a millstone were hanged about
                        his neck.
                    He did not dare go back to that forbidden logic which absolves itself from
                        obligation by pushing on toward fatalism. He shuddered at Antinomianism, for
                        that is the extinction of conscience. It was at this point that the
                        intuitions of an honest nature put a stop to logic.
                    In a state of mind such as his, there is one thing stronger than reasoning.
                        It is the persistence of ideas. Once mastered by the notion that in wedding
                        Roxy he would be offending against one of those who were yet but babes in
                        Christ: he could not shake it off. The awful words "millstone about his
                        neck," re-echoed in his mind.
                    He tried to write a letter withdrawing his offer. He began: "My dear Roxyï¿½"
                        but decided that that was too cordial. Then he wrote "Dear friendï¿½" but
                        that would not do. "Miss Adams" was too cold. At last after tearing up
                        several sheets of paper he resolved not to write at all. Good sense, which
                        is not exactly either conscience or logic, but both with something added,
                        began to revive. Why not go to Roxy without waiting for the week to expire
                        and learn from her what was the exact state of the case? It was nonsense to
                        decide such a question for her. Besides, the half threat of Highbury made it
                        quite necessary that he should assert his right to do as he thought
                        best.
                    When he set out to go to see Roxy, the town was full of people come to see
                        the "animal show." The whole stagnant life of the country about was stirred
                        by the  arrival of a spectacle. Here were
                        women standing by the hour with babies in their arms, waiting to see the
                        outside of the box wagons as they passed along the streets. Horses were
                        neighing to other horses all about the open square in the middle of the
                        town, and groups of people formed and dissolved and re-formed again like
                        molecules in effervescence, while everywhere, girls in new calico and lawn,
                        and boys in cotton drilling, hurried to and fro.
                    When Whittaker neared Roxy's house he began to doubt again whether he was
                        acting wisely or not. So he walked on further till he came to a gate leading
                        into a pasture. Through this into a grass-bordered path, along the path up
                        to the foot of the hill, he traveled mechanically; then up the rocky
                        hill-side, through the patches of papaw, he went clambering over a stone
                        wall into a vineyard, and over another into a road on top of the ridge. From
                        the summit he saw the whole village at his feet, the river, the distant
                        hills, and all the glorious landscape. He saw as in a dream, for he cared
                        neither for river nor sky, hill-slope nor town. He stopped a moment to
                        single out the log house in which lived the shoe-maker's daughter. Then he
                        strode eagerly onward, at first along the open road, afterward turning
                        whimsically into a disused wagon-track, almost overgrown now with bright
                        May-apple plants. Out of this he turned into a blind cow-path leading into a
                        dark ravine or "hollow." Down this he followed in the rocky bed of a dry
                        "branch," in the shadow of beech and butternut trees, and those noble
                        tulip-trees which they class with poplars in Indiana,ï¿½until at last he
                        came suddenly out upon the bank of Indian Creek. He had walked two rough and
                        rocky miles. He had meant to think when he started, but he had not thought
                        at all. He had only a sense of having left the noisy little town behind him,
                        and  of having marched straight forward to the
                        month of this dark hollow. He had not been able to walk away from his
                        perplexities. He stood and looked at the woods; he idly traced the gigantic
                        grape-vines up to where they were interlaced in the tree-boughs, a hundred
                        feet or so from the ground; he stared vacantly at the stagnant creek, the
                        sluggish current of which seemed to be drying up in the summer heat, spite
                        of the protection of the dense forest. A solitary ugly, short-tailed,
                        long-legged bittern flapped awkwardly past with discordant screams, and a
                        few hoarse bull-frogs croaked in the margin of the water. Whittaker, heated
                        and tired, with all his fiery eagerness spent, sat down on a moss-grown log,
                        and thought again what an awful thing it was to have a millstone hanged
                        about one's neck. Then, from the mere religions habit of his life, he knelt
                        on the bed of leaves. But he did not pray; he only lay across the log and
                        listened to the beating of his heart, and recalled images of Roxy with her
                        background of the quaint old house and its homely interior.
                    After a long time he started slowly and wearily back toward Luzerne.
                    Meantime the "animal show" at the appointed time "took up," as the country
                        people expressed it. It was a poor enough show. The few beasts looked very
                        tame and dispirited, but then the visitors paused for only a brief interview
                        with the scrawny lion, that bore but a weak resemblance to his own portrait
                        on the show-bills as the "king of beasts;" they did not waste much time on
                        the small tiger, from "the jungles of India." After giving a cracker or two
                        to the elephant, they assembled in a great crowd in front of the cage of
                        grinning, chattering, scratching monkeys. In that steady-going age, people
                        were not conscious that there might be aught of family affection in  this attraction. Monkeys then were monkeys
                        pure and simple; one could look at them as one looks at caricatures of
                        nobody in particular; one might laugh at them without a sense of gamboling
                        rudely over the graves of his ancestors.
                    Near this cage stood Twonnet, another girl now from the Twonnet of the
                        morning, laughing in her free, childish way at the pranks of the monkeys.
                        She had all the children with herï¿½Cecille, Isabelle, Adolphe, Louis and
                        little Julie, whom they called "Teet," a foreshortening of Petite. A little
                        monkey had just pulled the tail of the big baboon in the next cage, to the
                        great delight of the children, when who should come along but Jemima.
                        Squaring herself off where she could see, she declared that "them air
                        monkeys was a kind of people. Only needed a little dressin' up and you'd
                        have human critters. An' they wouldn't be no bigger fools than most folks.
                        They'd do for to run for the legislater, Mr. Bonamy."
                    This last to Mark, who made his appearance at this moment in company with
                        Roxy.
                    "Can't talk well enough for that," he answered.
                    "Why!" said Twonnet, always ready for attack when Mark was at hand. "I didn't
                        suppose you Methodists would attend such a place. Didn't they church Wayne
                        Thomas for going to a circus last year?"
                    "Yes, but that was a circus," said Roxy. "This kind of a show has nothing
                        wrong it. It gives a body information. I'm sure it's better than reading
                        Goldsmith's 'Animated Nature.'"
                    "It's right improvin', I'm shore," said Jemima, with droll mock gravity.
                        "Shouldn't think they'd be any use o' your goin' to Texas, now, Mr.
                        Bonamy."
                    "Why?"
                    
                    "Oh, the people must be so much 'improved' by catamounts and other varmint
                        that they can see any day without pay that missionaries ain't needed. But I
                        s'pose animalsï¿½bars an' rattle-snakes and sichï¿½haint improvin' to the
                        mind tell they're put in cages."
                    "But," said Roxy, timidly, like a person caught doing something wrong, "it
                        isn't any harm to look at these creatures. They are God's works, you
                        know."
                    "Yes, but some of God's works haint calc'lated to be admired while they're
                        runnin' 'round loose. If Markï¿½Mr. Bonamy hereï¿½finds a nasty, p'ison
                        copperhead snake under his piller some night, I don't 'low but what he'll up
                        with a stick and give him a right hard knock on the head smashin' God's
                        works all to pieces."
                    "That I will, Jemima, kill him first and admire him afterward," said Mark,
                        laughing in his hearty, unreserved fashion.
                    Slowly the people dispersed after watching the underfed tiger devour a very
                        tough piece of meat, and hearing the lion roar in fierce discontent over a
                        bone that gave him little promise of a good supper. Mark and Roxy as they
                        walked homeward together did not meditate much on God's works which they had
                        seen. They had, also, the misfortune to meet Mr. Whittaker returning, hungry
                        and fagged, from his long tramp in the woods, and disappointed at having
                        knocked in vain at the door of Roxy's house. A sudden pain smote the girl's
                        heart. Had he been to see her? She remembered now what sordid arguments her
                        aunt had used in favor of Mark, and she could hardly resist a feeling that
                        she was betraying Whittaker and giving herself to Mark on account of Mark's
                        worldly advantages. Indeed, this very rebellion against the aunt's advice
                        had almost induced her  to decline Mark's
                        invitation to go to the show. And then she remembered that the time for her
                        reply to Whittaker was but two days off, and how could she maintain a
                        judicial frame of mind if she kept Mark's company. But he had pleaded that
                        he needed some recreation, there was not much that was pleasant left for
                        him. And Roxy's heart had seconded its pleading, for the more she talked
                        with him of his plans, and pitied him in his prospective trials, so much the
                        more she loved him. She was a romancer, like all girls of her age, only her
                        romances had a religious coloring. If she could have felt a hearty pity for
                        Whittaker, or painted pictures of possible self-immolations for him she
                        might have loved him. But he had never said a word about any sacrifices that
                        he had made. Is it any wonder that the impulsive, romantic, self-pitying
                        Mark should have made the deepest impression? Was there not also a latent
                        feeling that Bonamy needed her influence? For all strong women like to feel
                        that they are necessary to somebody, and your pitiful and philanthropic
                        woman wants somebody to be sorry for.
                    Nevertheless, at sight of the fagged and anxious face of the young minister,
                        she was smitten with pain, and she lapsed into a melancholy from which Mark
                        could not arouse her. Once or twice she answered him with just a spice of
                        contradictoriness. Mark had meant to open his whole heart to her that very
                        afternoon. Now he thought that he had in some way offended. He bade her
                        good-bye at the gate, and walked slowly homeward through the long shadows of
                        the evening, trying to guess what he had done to give offense. If Roxy could
                        have decided the debate in her heart as most girls would have done,
                        according to her inclination, there would have been no more halting. But the
                        vision of Whittaker's troubled face made her hesitate,  and then the scrupulous habit of her mind made everything that
                        was pleasant seem to be wrong. Because she loved Mark she feared that she
                        ought not to have him. In imitation of the early Methodist saints she sought
                        to decide this matter, not by using her judgment, but by waiting for some
                        supernatural impulse or some outward token.
                    "Choose my way for me, O Lord!" she wrote in her diary that evening.
                    And yet with all her praying she was in a fair way to make her own choice.
                        There is nothing so blind as love, there is nothing so given to seeing. It
                        will get even from heaven the vision it seeks.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI.
                    A SUMMER STORM.
                    MR. WHITTAKER was tired, dispirited,
                        and dinnerless, and where one is fagged, hungry, and depressed, the worst
                        seems most probable. To him it was clear that Bonamy and Roxy were as good
                        as engaged. He was almost glad that he had not found Roxy at home when he
                        called on his return from the woods. What Bonamy could want with a wife, or
                        how he could support one, in his wild journey to Texas, Whittaker could not
                        imagine. But then the whole proceeding of dispatching an impulsive young
                        lawyer without theological training, on a mission, was ridiculous enough to
                        the well-regulated mind of a New Englander. In New England he had looked to
                        Indiana as the fag-end of Heathendom itself, but here the Indiana people
                        were sending a missionary into the outer darkness beyond. For himself, he
                        was, as yet, by no means sure of Bonamy's conversion. But the question of
                        the harm he might do to Bonamy was not the only one that touched him now.
                        Partly from scruple, partly from discouragement, partly on account of a
                        wounded pride, and partly from a sense of injury, he determined to settle
                        the matter once for all. To a man accustomed to act with simplicity and
                        directness, any hesitation, any complexity and entanglement of motives, is
                        purgatory. And a bewildered and badgered human soul will sometimes accept
                        the most desperate alternative for the sake of escaping from perplexity.  Misery, simple and absolute, is sometimes
                        better than compound suspense.
                    The tavern bell was already ringing its vesper when Whittaker pushed open the
                        white gate and walked up the graveled walk in front of the Lefaure cottage.
                        He ate his supper in a voracious and almost surly silence. When Lefaure
                        remarked that the heat was oppressive and that there were signs of a
                        thunder-storm, Whittaker roused himself only at the close of the sentence
                        which he dimly perceived was addressed to himself.
                    "What say?" he asked, using a down-east cut-off in his speech that seemed
                        almost offensive to his friend. The host repeated his remark about the
                        weather and Whittaker, whose attention had already lapsed, again revived
                        himself sufficiently to answer that he believed he was and went on
                        eating.
                    The letter he wrote in that sultry evening was a simple and unexplained
                        withdrawal of his offer of marriage. Whittaker sealed it and went out. The
                        twilight sky was already stained with a black cloud sweeping upward from the
                        west; little puffs of dust rose here and there in fitful eddies as the
                        sultry air anticipated the coming gust with nervous twitchings. But the
                        young minister cared for no cloud but the one in his own heart. He hurried
                        on through the deepening gloom past one or two of the old Swiss houses,
                        under the shadow of a great barn-like brick dwelling popularly called the
                        White Hall, which had been built by an overgrown merchant who had since
                        failed. Then he mechanically crossed the open lots into the main street and
                        did not pause until he had dropped the letter in the box. He had hardly
                        turned toward home when there came a sudden clap of thunder. The wind and
                        rain struck the village almost at once; the twilight was gone in an instant;
                             and it was with no little pains and
                        stumbling that Whittaker at last found his way back through the drenching
                        storm to his own room. The wild irregular dashing of the wind against the
                        window, the roaring of the summer rain upon the roof, and the gurgling rush
                        of the water in the tin leaders made a strange and stormy harmony with the
                        minister's perturbed emotions. The tired man at last slept soundly. When he
                        awoke in the gray dawn the tempest had spent itself. There were traces of
                        the wind in broken branches of trees here and there, the roads were
                        submerged by pools of water and the gutters and gullies were choke full. But
                        the air was clear and fresh and Whittaker threw open his window and watched
                        the first beams of the sun as they turned the gray clouds to orange and
                        yellow and blazed upon the river's ripples in a line of gold.
                    "It is a pleasant morning," he said to Twonnet, when she appeared in the yard
                        below drawing water from the cistern with the old-fashioned hook. "The storm
                        has cleared the air."
                    Something in his own words did him good, for indeed the storm had cleared the
                        air. Through the dull, lingering pain which he felt, there came a grateful
                        sense of relief and just a hope of final victory. He was thankful. For once
                        he neglected to "say his prayers." One never needs the form of devotion so
                        little as when the spirit is spontaneously devout.
                    Nevertheless, there was for many a month a vague sense of suffering
                        throughout his whole being, that depression about the nerve-centers which
                        may come from any disappointment, but which is more aggravated in its form
                        and persistency when the disappointment has to do with the affections.
                        Friends of the sufferer declare the pain a most unreasonable one. Isn't
                        every disease unreasonable?
                    
                    One would as well argue against dyspepsia. Of what good is it to assure a
                        disappointed lover that there are as many fish in the sea as ever were
                        caught? Loving differs from fishing precisely in this, that in love the sea
                        has but the one fish; the rest are all contemptible.
                    For weeks Whittaker's sermons were prepared in a dull way, and preached
                        listlessly. He even lost interest in the raging battle between the old
                        school and the new, and for a while he cared little for the difference
                        between partial atonement and universal. His few theological books were
                        untouched. One symptom of his disease was a disposition to quarrel with
                        Highbury. He took grounds in opposition to the elder's well-known opinions
                        at every opportunity, saying exasperating things on such slight occasions,
                        and resenting so sharply every attempt of the elder to advise him about
                        anything that Highbury seriously debated whether he should not move for the
                        minister's dismissal. There was one obstacle, however; that was the Home
                        Missionary Society. It might withdraw its assistance in case of difficulty.
                        But Whittaker did not think of the Home Missionary Society, or anything else
                        that could shield him from the elder's wrath. He rather craved a controversy
                        than shirked it. He even read and expounded those offensive sayings of
                        Christ about the difficulty of entrance into the kingdom of heaven which a
                        rich camel laden with many costly burdens is sure to encounter.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER SXII.
                    ROXY'S DECISION.
                    WHITTAKER'S letter did not reach Roxy. Letters without
                        direction cannot find their destination. In his profound agitation Whittaker
                        had forgotten to direct it and it went wandering away to the stupid old
                        dead-letter office of that day, where, in a pile of miscarried love-letters,
                        business notes, idle epistles and family bulletins, it was solemnly burned.
                        Roxy never knew why Whittaker did not come to hear her yes or no, but she
                        was glad that he did not.
                    She had to make her decision in her own way. Which was to fancy that the
                        decision was made for her. When she prayed the image of Mark Bonamy stood
                        before her. Was not Miss Bosanquet of blessed memory guided in the same way
                        to the choice of the saintly Fletcher of Madeley? At other times texts of
                        scripture were strongly "suggested" to her mind. The answer of Ruth to
                        Naomi, the passage about giving up houses and lands and father and mother,
                        and the vocation of Paulï¿½"Behold I will send thee far hence unto the
                        Gentiles"ï¿½all came to her mind at times when she could not track the
                        association which brought them. Clearly they were suggestion. Why should she
                        be disobedient to the heavenly voice.?
                    Mark came to see her on the next evening but one af-er the
                        day of the menagerie. He found her teaching Bobo.  She had read somewhere or heard of the experiments then
                        beginning to be made on the continent of Europe in the education of the
                        feeble-minded. She had persuaded her father to make her a board with a
                        triangular hole, a round hole and a square one. She had also three blocks
                        made to fit the three holes. When Mark came in she was teaching the boy to
                        set the blocks in their places and to know them by her descriptions. He was
                        so pleased with his success in getting the three-cornered block into its
                        place, that he was clapping his hands with delight when Mark entered. Bonamy
                        had that sort of aversion to an invalid or an imbecile which inheres in some
                        healthy constitutions. He therefore exaggerated the self-denial of Roxy in
                        teaching her cousin.
                    She blushed a little when Mark came,ï¿½she could not have told why,ï¿½and
                        begged that he would let her finish her lesson.
                    "Certainly, certainly," he answered.
                    "Certainly, certainly," cried Bobo as he lifted up and replaced the
                        triangular block in the aperture.
                    "Now the square one," said Roxy.
                    "Now the square one," responded the boy, at the same time laying hold of the
                        circular block.
                    "No," said Roxy.
                    "No," answered the pupil putting down the block and taking the other.
                    "That's the square one."
                    "That's the square one," he cried, trying to force it into the round
                        hole.
                    "No," no! the square hole!"
                    "No, no! the square hole!" And then he looked at Roxy vacantly. At last,
                        catching her meaning, he clapped the square block on the square hole. But
                        Roxy had to  take hold of his hand and turn it
                        round until the block fitted to its place.
                    "Hurra! that's it!" cried the teacher, clapping her hands in great gleeï¿½a
                        demonstration that was quickly imitated by the triumphant pupil.
                    "How slowly he must learn," said Mark. "It will take you a week to teach him
                        to place those blocks."
                    "I've been at it a week already. It will take at least a month. You see the
                        first steps, are the hardest. When he has learned this lesson I shall have a
                        lot of blocks, all one shape but of different colors. The rims of the holes
                        will be colored to match. When he has learned those, I shall have both
                        shapes and colors various. I was afraid I could not teach him at all, but he
                        has already learned to know the round block. See!"
                    With this Roxy took all the blocks out and put them together.
                    "Now, Bobo, the round one."
                    "Now, Bobo, the round one," echoed the lad, squeezing the fingers of his
                        right hand with his left, and rocking to and fro in indecision, and knitting
                        his brows with mental effort. At last he reached out, timidly lifted the
                        square block, then timidly took up the round one, looked up to make sure
                        that Roxy approved, then, after hovering a while over the three holes, he
                        clapped it into the right one, receiving a burst of applause and a kiss from
                        his teacher as a reward.
                    "How tedious it must be!" said Mark, amazed at Roxy's patience.
                    "Tedious? No. I shall make a man out of Bobo yet."
                    "Make a man out of Bobo yet," chuckled the little fellow, lifting the blocks
                        and striving to fit them in their holes.
                    
                    "I wish you were not quite so good," said Mark, in a sudden fit of
                        humility.
                    Roxy did not answer. She had a desire to protest against the compliment, but
                        the shadow of what Mark was about to say fell upon her, and she was silent.
                        Bobo looked up in wonder and curiosity at her blushing face, then he went up
                        and caressed her, saying, "Poor Roxy mus'n't cry."
                    Roxy pushed him away gently, and Bobo wandered into the yard leaving Roxy and
                        her lover alone.
                    "If you were not so good I might hope to come back some day when Texas gets
                        to be a little better, maybe, and take you out to help me. God knows I need
                        help. I don't feel very sure of myself without you to strengthen me."
                    It was the same old cry for help. And all the more eloquent that it was
                        utterly sincere. Was it that in this moment some doubt of Mark's stability
                        crossed the soul of Roxy that she rose and walked to the little book-shelf
                        and affected to arrange the few books that she might gain time? But the cry
                        for help opened all the fountains of her love. Whether Mark was as good as
                        she believed him to be or as unsteady as Twonnet thought him, she loved him
                        with all her woman's soul. Be he good or bad, she felt now for the first
                        time that she was his; that some force beside her will or judgment had
                        decided for her. It was but a feeble effort she could make in favor of
                        calmness or thought. She returned to her chair trembling and helpless.
                    "What do you say, Roxy?" Mark was standing waiting. For a minute not a word
                        passed. Roxy knew that she was floating on a stream against which all rowing
                        was futile. A new and hitherto unsuspected force in her own  nature was bearing her away. Neither praying
                        nor strugling availed. He already possessed her, but she could not tell him
                        so. She did not debate any longer, she only floated in a dreamy, blissful
                        state, waiting for him to understand what she dared not confess. At last he
                        reached his hand and lifted hers which lay upon the arm of her chair. She
                        had no sense of volition, but, as though his touch had given her a galvanic
                        shock, she closed her hand on his and Mark understood.
                    Much depends on the stand-point from which a subject is viewed. Go and ask
                        Colonel Bonamy, as he sits meditatively at his desk, his long gray locks
                        gently fluttering in the summer wind. He will tell you that Mark is rather
                        throwing himself away on a shoe-maker's daughter, and that the time may come
                        when he will be sorry for it. Even the Christian virtues do not weigh in all
                        scales alike.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII.
                    BONAMY, SENIOR.
                    BONAMY the elder walked up and down his office floor. It
                        was a week after Mark's betrothal, and a hot, still, summer day, disturbed
                        by nothing; for the drowsy sound of the distant hammering of the village
                        smith could not be said to disturb anything. The elder Bonamy was a
                        broad-shouldered, raw-boned man. His heavy chin was closeshaven, there was
                        an under lip that indicated stubbornness, and a certain droop of the eyelids
                        over his black eyes and a close-shutness of the mouth that stood for a
                        secretiveness which knew by-ways to an end where highways were obstructed.
                        But over the firmness and the shrewdness of his character a mantle was
                        thrown by his innate dignity. He was one of those who treat themselves with
                        sincere reverence. Now and then he stopped in his solitary pacing to and fro
                        to look out of the open window of the office at the brass ball on the top of
                        the court-house. But either because the brass ball, blazing in the summer's
                        sun, did not give him the inspiration he sought, or for some other good and
                        sufficient reason, he always uttered between his teeth, as he turned away
                        from the window, an ejaculation which is in the English tongue accounted
                        profane, and forbidden to be put down in books. The object of the colonel's
                        cursing was an impersonal "it," What the "it" was which he wished to have
                        put under malediction, an eavesdropper could not have guessed.
                    
                    Colonel Bonamy was not an eloquent lawyer. It was not from him that Mark
                        inherited his outspoken vehemence. Secretive men are good diplomatists, but
                        a diplomatist is not often an orator. He loved the struggle of litigation as
                        he loved a game of poker. He fought now in this way, now in that way, now by
                        sudden and abrupt attack, and again by ambuscade, sometimes by cool and
                        lofty assurance, sometimes by respectful considerateness, but by this or
                        that he managed to win whenever success was within reach without compromise
                        of his exterior dignity, which dignity was with him a make-shift for
                        conscience. He studied the juries, their prejudices of politics or religion
                        and their susceptibilities. He took them almost one by one, awing some,
                        flattering others, reasoning with others. He was never brilliant, but he won
                        his suits; defeat was the only thing in heaven or earth that he dreaded.
                    Those who knew his habits would have said that in the present instance he had
                        a case in which he could not quite see his way to success. This striding up
                        and down the floor, this staring with half-shut eyes at the ball on the
                        belfry, this short, abrupt, half-smothered and rather uncharitable damning
                        of the neuter pronoun, betokened a difficult case. But there were certainly
                        no cases to perplex him until the a "fall" term of the circuit court should
                        come round. Neither had he been overthrown in his tilt at poker the night
                        before. None the less was he wrestling with a hard problem. He had tried to
                        "bluff" Mark and had failed. But all the more was he resolved to find some
                        way to accomplish his purpose. Hence this striding to and fro, diagonally
                        across the office. For do not the legs pump blood into the brain? And hence,
                        too, this staring at the brass ball, and this swearing at some undefined
                        "it."
                    
                    The colonel had just uttered his little curse for the dozenth time, when the
                        lank Lathers darkened, in a perpendicular way, the threshold of the open
                        door. Some business about a subpï¿½na was the occasion for his call. The
                        aristocratic lawyer and the rude Lathers were a fine contrast of the
                        patrician and the plebeian in manner and appearance. When Lathers had
                        finished his errand, and stood again in the open door about to depart, he
                        said:
                    "Mark, don't come home early these nights, I 'low, Colonel."
                    "I don't know," answered the diplomatic lawyer.
                    "Seems to me, Colonel,ï¿½but then 'taint none of my business," and the
                        sheriff passed out into the hot sunshine.
                    "Come back, Lathers," said Bonamy, adding to the invitation his
                        half-smothered oath, fired in the air at nobody in particular.
                    "What the dickens do you mean? Has Mark been doing anything worse than going
                        to those confounded Methodist meetings?" And the colonel took a turn toward
                        the window, and another pull at the economical and non-committal little
                        curse. It was a vent to nervous irritation.
                    "Well, I don't know what you call wuss and what you call better. Texas and
                        preachings and girls is awfully mixed up in Mark's headï¿½a sort of jumble,
                        like a Fourth of July speech, or the sermon of a red-hot young exhauster and
                        the like, you know. But I reckon it'll clarfy, as the old woman said of he
                        duck-puddle when she spilled her eggs into it."
                    "What girls do you think of, that Mark likes?"
                    "Oh! last summer it was that Kirtley witch, now it's  Tom Adams's Roxy. She's the very angel Gabriel, and the like,
                        you know."
                    "Oil, well, I didn't know but it was something worse. Every young man has to
                        be a fool about something. You and I, we had our turn, Major." And Bonamy
                        smiled condescendingly.
                    "We rekivered mighty devilish airly though, Colonel, and we haint had many
                        relapses. Playing poker with an old hand like you is my very worst, Colonel.
                        When I do that I'm like Samson in the lion's den." And with this the sheriff
                        departed, smiling.
                    Colonel Bonamy had treated Lathers's communication with dignified
                        indifference, but Lathers knew how to estimate this affectation. He had seen
                        the colonel's immovable face when he lost and when he won at poker.
                    "He's mad as a black bear," said Lathers to himself. And when, half an hour
                        later, he saw the lawyer enter the shop of Adams, he was confirmed in his
                        surmise.
                    "What cut is the old fellow taking?" was the question that Lathers could not
                        answer. That Bonamy meant to break off Mark's attachment to Roxy he did not
                        doubt, but how?
                    "He's powerful deep, that Colonel Bonamy. He's deeper'n the Old Boy." It was
                        thus he comforted himself for his inability to guess what was the old
                        lawyer's line of attack.
                    Nevertheless, he saw his opportunity to serve his own ends. He watched for
                        Mark and took him aside to tell him that the old man was "lookin' after" his
                        love affairs, and had been "inquirin' round" about Mark's attachment to
                        Roxy. For his part, he disapproved of "meddlin.'" and the like, and felt
                        bound, as an old friend of Mark's, to give him a sly hint and the like, you
                        know,  that the old man had been over to see
                        Adams on the subject. Whereupon Mark, of course, grew red in the face. Was
                        he not able to settle such matters for himself? It is a way we civilized men
                        have. We are all able to take care of ourselves in love affairs when we are
                        young, and when we get old, we are all convinced of the inability of other
                        folks in youth, to look out for themselves.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV.
                    BY THE FLANK.
                    WHEN Lathers had left Colonel Bonamy, the old man did not
                        look at the blazing brass ball any more, but looked steadily at the floor as
                        he resumed his pacing to and fro. He thrust his hands into the pockets of
                        his brown linen trowsers and laughed inaudibly.
                    "Byï¿½George!" The colonel drew the first word out to its
                        fullest length and then cut the other off short and sharp, with a faint
                        inward chuckle at the end. It was his note of triumph. There was then a road
                        out of this embarrassment about a son who had the misfortune to inherit a
                        streak of moral enthusiasm from his mother. It was a favorite maxim with the
                        old lawyer: "concede small points to carry large ones."
                    "I will give him his first point and gain the suit," he soliloquized. Then
                        after a while he came out with an appeal to some private deity of his own
                        whom he called "Godomighty." For the colonel was rather full of such words
                        for a man who was an ostentatious disbeliever in any god.
                    When he had looked at his empty Franklin stove a while he suddenly became
                        interested in his boots. He lifted his left foot and examined the sole
                        carefully, then he looked at the right one, then he took his beaver hat from
                        the mantel-piece and went out into the scorching heat of the summer
                        afternoon. The little shop of Mr.  Adams stood
                        in the main street which ran toward the river; there were higher buildings
                        all about it, but it had held its place for more than a generation, having
                        been a store, and the only one in the town at the beginning. It was in some
                        sense the germ cell from which all the trade of the place had grown. The
                        door of the old shoe-shop was wide open, the smell of leather diffused
                        itself into the street without, and scraps and bits from the shop were
                        scattered as far as the gutter. The meditative Adams sat doubled together,
                        hammering vigorously upon a bit of leather. Did his trade give him his
                        sturdy speech? Of all mechanical occupations, that of the shoe-maker is the
                        most favorable to reflection and to vehement expression. Adams hammered
                        theories, as he did the leather on his lap-stone.
                    By Adams's side sat little Ben Boone, an illegitimate child in a family
                        doomed to poverty in all its generations. There are whole races of people
                        who have a genius for wretchedness; it comes to them as a vocation.
                    "Why don't you take the shoe and go?" demanded the shoe-maker sternly,
                        pausing in his hammering.
                    "Gran'mother says she can't pay you tillï¿½"
                    "Go 'long with you, and don't say another word," burst out the
                        shoe-maker.
                    The boy started out, frightened into silence.
                    "Stop!" called the shoe-maker, relenting. "Tell your grandmother when the
                        shoe gives out again, to send it to me. Don't take my work over to Jim
                        Hone's shop. Here's some leather to make a whirligig of. Go, now. Out with
                        you!"
                    "Aha!" said Bonamy, as he entered the shop. "I didn't know you kept charity
                        customers."
                    "Charity! pshaw! You know, Colonel, that I'm a fool 
                        
                         to give away time and good leather to
                        shiftless people like the Boones. And if you had the politeness that people
                        say you have, you would not twit me with it. We all have our
                        weaknesses."
                    "I don't know," said Bonamy, who was, as usual, left by the ambiguousness of
                        Adams's tone, in a perplexing doubt as to whether he were jesting or
                            quarreling,-ï¿½a doubt which Adams was generally
                        unable to solve himself. "I don't know about that, Mr. Adams. I have
                        out-grown most of mine, and yours seem to be very commendable ones."
                    Saying this, the colonel took a seat on the vacant bench, which was occupied
                        in busy seasons by a journeyman. He sat down on this low bench, among bits
                        of leather, pegs, wax, lasts, hammers and what-nots, with all of his
                        accustomed stateliness, gently lifting his coat-tails and posing his tall
                        figure by the side of the stooped and grizzled shoemaker, with an evident
                        sense of his picturesqueness.
                    "That boot needs a few pegs in the hollow of the foot, I think."
                    "Widowers are dreadful particular, Colonel. There's nothing much the matter
                        with the boot."
                    "You forget that you're a widower, too. But young folks are likely to beat
                        us. They do say now that my Mark and your Roxyï¿½"
                    "Are a couple of fools," cried the irascible shoe-maker, stung by something
                        in Bonamy's tone which he interpreted to mean that the house of Adams ought
                        to feel very much flattered by its present juxtaposition, in the gossip of
                        the village, with the house of Bonamy.
                    "I agree with you," said the lawyer.
                    "For two fools like them to be talking of going to Texas to carry the Gospel
                        is an outrage. I think Texas 'll  convert the
                        missionary instead of the missionary converting Texas. It's bad enough for
                        Mark to make a fool of himself. I wish he would go to Texas and be done with
                        it, and not turn Roxy's head."
                    "Do you really think they care for each other?" put in the lawyer,
                        diplomatically.
                    "Mark would be a fool, sir, if he didn't like Roxy. And what does he mean by
                        all his attentions if he doesn't care for her? He ought to be shot if he
                        doesn't care. I've half a mind to interfere and break it up. I would if I
                        was the man I ought to be."
                    "Between you and me, I don't think Mark 'll go. I'm glad he likes Roxy. It
                        will keep him at home."
                    "She's as crazy as he is," said Adams. "These Methodists have made loons out
                        of both of them."
                    "Well, we'll see." And after a minute the old lawyer took back his boot, in
                        which a few pegs had been tightened, drew it on and sauntered out of the
                        shop, and thence down the street and around the corner to his office. Mark
                        sat writing at his own desk in the office, full of anger at what Lathers had
                        told him.
                    "Mark!" said the father.
                    "Sir," answered the son, using the respectful word prescribed in the code of
                        manners of Western and Southern society, but uttering it in anything but a
                        decent tone.
                    "You've really made up your mind to go to Texas?"
                    "Of course I have."
                    "They tell me you've been paying attention to Tom Adams's Roxy."
                    "I think you might speak a little more respectfully of a lady that I have
                        paid attentions to."
                    "Can't you answer me in a Christian spirit, young  man?" said the colonel, adding a gentle blasphemy to this
                        appeal.
                    "Well, I think I can attend to my own love affairs."
                    "I suppose you can. But how in the name of the Old Boy, will you keep a wife
                        on a hundred dollars a year, on the Brazos River?"
                    "I don't propose to take a wife with me."
                    "Then what in thunder are you making love to Tom Adams'sï¿½to Roxy Adams
                        for?"
                    "I wish you would let me manage my own affairs," said Mark, scowling.
                    "Ob, of course! But sometimes an old man's advice is worth having, even if
                        the old man does happen to be an infidel. A father is entitled to some
                        respect even from Christians, I suppose."
                    The young man was silent.
                    "Now, I believe you don't intend to go for six weeks or so. If you must go,
                        marry a good wife; Tom Adams's daughterï¿½excuse me, Miss Roxy Adamsï¿½will
                        do."
                    "How can I, as you said, on a hundred a year?"
                    "Why, I propose, if you must go out there, to take care of you. I'll do
                        better than the church. I'll see 'em that and go one better. Three hundred
                        dollars is a large sum in Texas. I don't want you to go out there and die.
                        With a wife you'll stand some chance of living. You can think it over,
                        consult the girl and let me know." With that he took up his pen to begin
                        writing.
                    Mark was full of surprise. His first thought was that this offer gave him a
                        chance of escape from the dire necessity of leaving Roxy. His second feeling
                        was one of shame that he had treated his father so cavalierly. He rose
                        impulsively and said,  "I beg your pardon for
                        speaking as I did. You are very kind." And he held out his hand.
                    But the elder did not look up. He uttered something about the devil, and said
                        that it was all right, of course.
                    Mark left the office full of cheerfulness. The gift horse was too valuable to
                        be examined closely. Such is the case generally in the matter of gift
                        horses, notwithstanding the bitter experience of the Trojans.
                    The wily old lawyer, when once the young man was gone, relaxed his face into
                        a noncommittal smile, and ejaculated the name of his heathen divinity
                        again.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV.
                    SAINT THERESA OF THE HONEYSUCKLES.
                    MYSTIC that she was, Roxy was ever looking for some
                        celestial communication. To such a nature, heaven is all about. There are no
                        accidents; the angels minister in whatever befalls. So when Mark came, he
                        found her with the old gladness shining from her face, singing with
                        irrepressible spontaneity and the delicious melody of a Virginia wood-robin.
                        Nothing could be more inspiriting than the martial enthusiasm and fire of
                        fine sincerity with which she rendered Charles Wesley's hymn, beginning:
                    
                        "Jesus, the name high over all,
                        In hell, or earth, or sky,
                        Angels and men before it fall
                        And devils fear and fly.
                    
                    Mark came into hearing as she concluded the singing of the first verse, and
                        he paused involuntarily to hear the rest. Roxy omitted the next stanza, and
                        struck into the third, which exactly fitted her mood:
                    
                        "Oh, that the world might taste and see
                        The riches of his grace,
                        The arms of love that compass me
                        Would all mankind embrace."
                    
                    The rich voice gave a new meaning to the words, and Ronamy could see in her
                        face, framed in the honeysuckle  that grew
                        over the window, the reflex of all she sang, as she plied her needle and
                        rocked slowly to and fro. Again she skippedï¿½she was thinking of the
                        dangers of life in Texas, perhaps, but she dropped now to the last verse of
                        the hymn, and Charles Wesley himself would have found new meaning in his own
                        words, could he have heard her sing, in a tone now soft and low, but full of
                        pathetic exultation still:
                    
                        "Happy, if with my latest breath,
                        I may but gasp his name,
                        Preach him to all, and cry in death,
                        Behold, behold the Lamb!"
                    
                    While she sang these words, Bonamy came softly into the yard and walked up to
                        the window, pulling aside the honeysuckles. Roxy was not startled. Mark had
                        been so present in her imaginings that it seemed to the rapt girl the most
                        natural thing in the world to see him standing there looking at her, with
                        his face suffused with emotion.
                    "A body could suffer and die, with you to strengthen," he said.
                    "No, with God. It is God that gives me this desire to suffer or to die for
                        him. I know it is given for something, but I must wait until the way is open
                        for me."
                    "The way is opened to-day. Before New Year's, I hope that you and I will be
                        carrying out the spirit of that hymm in the republic of Texas."
                    "Why? How? Come in and tell me,"
                    Mark went in, and, saluting her with a lover's warmth, told her what his
                        father had said. Help from this quarter was just the most miraculous thing
                        in the world. The Maid of Orleans was not more sure of a divine vocation,
                        than was Roxy at that moment. She pushed her chair  back from the window, beckoned Mark to kneel down with her,
                        and then, with the enthusiasm of Saint Theresa when she sought in childhood
                        a martyrdom among the Moors, Roxy poured out thanks to God for the
                        inestimable privilege of suffering, and perhaps of dying, for the Lord.
                    Mark left Roxy when the tavern bell was ringing its muezzin call to supper.
                        He went away as he always left her presence, in a state of sympathetic
                        exaltation, which would have lasted him until he could have sunned himself
                        again in her religious experience, had it not been that in his walk toward
                        home, he met Haz Kirtley. The sight of the drayman disturbed his complacency
                        with recollections of his past failures. He had no fear now of any
                        enticement from Nancy, but he was growing a little more distrustful of
                        himself, in a general way. A lurking feeling that underneath this missionary
                        Mark was a treacherous other self, capable of repeating the follies of the
                        past, troubled him. He longed for Texas, not as of old to leave Nancy
                        behind, but because he felt, as who does not, that a great change in
                        circumstance would help to make a change in him. He forgot, as we all
                        forget, that the ugly self is not to be left behind. There is no way but to
                        turn and face a foe who must needs be mess-mate and bedfellow with us to the
                        very end.
                    That night, at supper, Amanda, the elder of the sisters Bonamy, told Mark
                        that he would better learn to make shoes. This obscure allusion to the trade
                        of Roxy's father was meant for wit and sarcasm, but to Amanda's surprise,
                        her father took up for Mark. Roxy Adams was a fine girl,ï¿½a little too
                        pious, but at least that was not a common fault with girls. And Janet, the
                        impulsive younger sister, said she wished Mark would marry Roxy. She had
                        such a handsome face, with a glad look shining out from behind.
                    
                    "What a little goose you are!" said the dignified Amanda; "did ever anybody
                        hear such nonsense?ï¿½a glad look shining out from behind! Silly! For my
                        part, I don't like a girl that is always smiling."
                    "But she don't smile. She only looks glad," persisted Janet.
                    "As if anybody could look glad without smiling! Let's see you try."
                    "Oh, I can't! It's just like before the sun comes up in the morning,ï¿½the
                        hills on the other side of the river show the bright sky through the trees,
                        the water looks like gold, the houses seem to stand out with light all
                        around them, in a splendid kind of a way. It's sunshine just agoing to come,
                        like Roxy's smile, that isn't quite a smile, you know."
                    The father laughed, as he might have laughed at baby-talk, Mark patted the
                        girl on the shoulder, with:
                    "A poet in the family, I declare."
                    "A goose in the family," said Amanda. "A smile that isn't quite a smile is a
                        sensible remark! You'd better go to school to Roxy. She's teaching one idiot
                        now, and I don't know but she's got two." This last with a look at Mark.
                    As for Mrs. Hanks, she was not quite satisfied when she heard of the
                        arrangement. She thought the colonel should have insisted on Mark's staying
                        at home. But he would come to be somebody yet,ï¿½a presiding elder and maybe
                        a bishop. She was glad, for her part, that Roxy had taken her advice. It was
                        a good deal better than marrying a Presbyterian, anyhow. Roxy would have a
                        good and talented husband, and a Methodist, with real heart religion.
                    "Wait till the pie is cut before you say whether they's  blackberries, or elderberries, or pisen poke-berries insides,"
                        said Jemima.
                    Twonnet tried to think the best when Roxy told her. But the knowledge that
                        Roxy had of her friend's opinion of Mark was a wedge of estrangement between
                        them. They visited each other, but their intercourse became more and more
                        constrained. Each blamed the other for the cooling of a friendship which
                        they had often vowed should be eternal. In such gradual dissolutions of
                        eternal friendships, each party, feeling herself innocent, is sure that the
                        other must be censurable. They never think of falling out with those deep
                        and irresistible currents in human nature before the force of which we are
                        all helpless.
                    The whole town was agitated by the news of the engagement. For it was news.
                        What battles and bank-ruptcies are to a metropolis, such are marriages and
                        deaths to a village. The match-makers were generally pleased for there was
                        romance in the wild stories of how Colonel Bonamy had quarreled with his son
                        about going to Texas, but had finally consented to the marriage and the
                        mission. It was generally agreed that the old man was not "nigh so
                        hard-hearted since his wife died." He might get over his infidelity yet,
                        some dayï¿½though he did swear dreadful, you know. Some thought that he
                        meant to run for Congress, and wanted to get Mark out of the way and
                        purchase the favor of the Methodists, at the same time.
                    Mr. Highbury was delighted that his own words had weighed with Whittaker, and
                        Mrs. Highbury rocked her little fat body to and fro, lifting her toes off
                        the floor each time, and rhythmically echoed Mr. Highbury's opinion that no
                        man ought to preach without a theological education.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI.
                    A PANTHER.
                    JIM MC GOWAN, of
                        Rocky Fork, who had felt keenly his insecurity in the affections of Nancy
                        Kirtley ever since the advent of young Bonamy on his electioneering trip,
                        heard of Mark's engagement with relief. He had brought a load of wood to
                        town and sold it to old Mrs. Tartrum, the ideal town gossip, who assailed
                        the very children upon the street with persistent catechisms about the
                        affairs of their parents, and whose love of hearing was only equaled by her
                        love of telling. In the absence of any other unin formed hearer, she poured
                        the whole story of the colonel's opposition and the colonel's arrangement
                        and Amanda's "dudgeon," into the ears of the eager Jim McGowan, while he was
                        throwing a cord of ash wood over her back fence. She added the information
                        that the Bonamys were a regular big fish family, and that it was a great
                        rise for a poor girl.
                    Jim drove home in a state of glorification. He was sure that Nancy would be
                        humble enough now. She had always been gracious to him in proportion to
                        Bonamy's remoteness. Now that Bonamy was gone entirely, Nancy would set her
                        lines for Jim more carefully than ever. He would hold back, and let her see
                        how it felt to be kept off. It was her turn to fish a while. Jim McGowan is
                        not the only man who finds, to his sorrow, just when he thinks he
                        understands, that he has not begun to understand a woman.
                    
                    Jim was a little distant with Nancy. She was looking her best in a new
                        calico, for she had seen him go down in the morning. It was all the poor
                        fellow could do to keep up his lofty and half-injured air. He wanted to
                        introduce the news he had to tell in an accidental way, as though it were a
                        matter of indifference to him. But the girl was so dazzling that he could
                        not well keep his head.
                    I Nancy Kirtley was a flower of that curious poor-whitey race which is called
                        "tar-heel" in the northern Carolina, "sand-hiller" in the southern,
                        "corn-cracker" in Kentucky, "yahoo" in Mississippi, and in California
                        "Pike." They never continue in one stay, but are the half gypsies of
                        America, seeking by shiftless removals from one region to another to better
                        their wretched fortunes, or, more likely, to gratify a restless love of
                        change and adventure. They are the Hoosiers of the dark regions of Indiana
                        and the Egyptians of southern Illinois. Always in a half-barbarous state, it
                        is among them that lynching most prevail. Their love of excitement drives
                        them into a daring life and often into crime. From them came the Kentucky
                        frontiersmen, the Texan rangers, the Murrell highwaymen, the Arkansas
                        regulators and anti-regulators, the ancient keel-boatmen, the more modern
                        flat-boatmen and raftsmen and roustabouts, and this race furnishes, perhaps,
                        more than its share of the "road agent" that infest the territories. Brave
                        men and generous men are often found among them; but they are never able to
                        rise above Daniel Boones and Simon Kentons. Beautiful women, of the
                        magnificent, swarthy, half-oriental, animal sort, spring now and then from
                        this stock, and of these Nancy was one,ï¿½a perfect gypsy queen of beauty as
                        she stood there that day and set poor McGowan wild. She was more cordial
                        than usual, and the poor, distracted  fellow
                        found himself prone to receive gratefully so much sunshine. Getting
                        desperate, he came out at last with:
                    "Nancy, you remember that air Mark Bonamy that come foolin' roun' here last
                        year, runnin' fer the legislater?"
                    "I 'low you ricollect him, Jim. You've been mad enough
                        about him ever since. And you got fined over't Republican meetin'-house for
                        disturbin' his meetin'. And I'll bet he don't forgit me." With that Nancy
                        tossed back her abundant dark-brown hair and threw out her chin in a saucy,
                        triumphant fashion that set her lover wild. "I haint a gal to be forgot
                        easy, now, am I, Jim? And he's a feller worth while," she added, getting up
                        and posing her magnificent figure on the hearth where Jim could see to the
                        best advantage her perfect shape, her great black eyes with a soft sensuous
                        droop in them, her rich complexion, her well-set red lips and white
                        teeth.
                    "What a creetur you air, Nance!" cried Jim, leaning forward in a frantic
                        state of mingled love and despair. "I was going to tell you some news, but I
                        sha'n't if you go on that way."
                    "What way, Jim? Don't be a fool about Bonamy jest because he's so handsome.
                        What about him? Is he coming out here to see me? I wish he would. He's as
                        big a fool as you air."
                    "I 'low I'd better go," said Jim, rising with an air of offense, but sure
                        that his news would humble Nancy. "All they is about it is that Mark Bonamy
                        is goin' to marry shoe-maker Adams's girl, and both on 'em is off fer Texas
                        in a month or two. It aint no matter of mine, you know, but I knowed you'd
                        keer, seein' you was so all-fired sweet to him."
                    Nancy bridled proudly.
                    
                    "I'll show you whether he'll marry that girl or not, dog-on her." She turned
                        to the high mantel-shelf and lifted an old tin cup which was turned upside
                        down, and picked up a watch seal.
                    "May be you don't know who give me that?" she said, with her great black eyes
                        snapping fire triumphantly under her dark brows. Then she seized from the
                        other end of the shelf a red morocco Testament. "May be you kin read
                        writin', Jim. I can't. But that's his name. I'm agoin' off to Luzerne
                        to-morry mornin'. And you look at me, Jim." Here she straightened herself up
                        proudly, and her swarthy, almost oriental, beauty became more wonderful when
                        her whole countenance was lit up with defiance.
                    "How long kin Roxy Adams stan' agin me? Look at me? Jim, and say whether I'm
                        purty or not. You come here saying to yourself: 'Now, when that Nancy hears
                        that Bonamy's clean gone she'll be down on her knees to me.' Jest as ef I
                        haint got more beaus than I kin count. Jim McGowan, you may jest go to
                        thunder, the quicker the better." And she turned fiercely away.
                    Jim saw his defeat too clearly to tarry. With a few testy words of retort he
                        made his way out to his wagon and started home. But ever as he drove over
                        the rough road of Rocky Fork he recalled the vision of the fierce, dark,
                        magnificent woman standing on the hearth and stamping her foot as she
                        dismissed him. And over and over in his mind he compared her to a panther,
                        thinking aloud as men of his class are prone to do.
                    "Blamed ef she haint a painter. A regler painter, teeth an' claws an' all, by
                        hokey! Looked jest like a painter ready to spring on me and tear me all to
                        flinders. And that's what she is, painter an' nothin' else. But gosh! she's
                        a splendid creetur! Confound her picter."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII.
                    NANCY IN TOWN.
                    THE solitary horse of the Kirtley family was in use in the
                        corn-field. Only one more day's work was needed to "lay by" the field, but
                        Nancy had come to be dictator; so instead of being hitched to the plow, old
                        Bob was side-saddled for Nancy. The old woman scolded, but the arrangement
                        suited the father as well as it did the daughterï¿½it gave him an excuse for
                        spending the day at the grocery in Canaan, a promised land comprising three
                        drinking-places and a shoe-shop. All the way up and down the hills to town
                        Nancy turned over and over again in her mind various plans of attack. To
                        exhibit the keepsakes to Roxy asserting an engagement between Mark and
                        herself might serve her purpose far enough to break off the marriage with
                        Roxy, but it would probably anger Bonamy and defeat her main hope. She was
                        shrewd enough to see that if she should threaten Mark, or attack him in any
                        way, all expedients for entrapping him would fail. She therefore resolved to
                        keep vindictive measures till the last.
                    Her first objective point was an interview with Mark, and to this end she
                        seated herself in his office, early in the afternoon, and awaited his
                        entrance. When he appeared on the door-step she was offended to note that he
                        drew back for a moment as though he would fain avoid meeting her. For Mark
                        had just been licensed to preach, the  day
                        before, and with a freshened sense of his responsibility, not only to God
                        but to the public, he was chagrined to come upon Nancy lying in wait. He
                        greeted her as "Sister Kirtley," after the inflexible Methodist fashion of
                        that day, but his friendliness went no further. She was piqued at this, and
                        set herself to be attractive, but Mark was in no mood to be attracted. To
                        dally with the belle of Rocky Fork at a hoe-down on Rocky Fork was easy
                        enough; to have her obtrusive beauty thrust upon him, in his own office in
                        Luzerne, when he had a brand new license to preach in his pocket, a mission
                        to Texas in his mind and a fresh and most religious betrothal to a saint
                        like Roxy Adams in his heart, was quite another thing. Besides he momently
                        expected the advent of his father. What would the cynical old atheist say or
                        do if he should find his pious son in such company? In his eager desire to
                        be rid of her he was almost rude.
                    Entered after a while Bonamy the elder, who affected not to see the girl and
                        who immediately absorbed himself in writing. But Nancy's observing vanity
                        had detected the furtive glance with which the surprised senior had taken
                        her in. She noted also the increased constraint of Mark, who now answered
                        her in curt, half-defiant monosyllables.
                    Seeing that she was gaining nothing by blandishment she thought to try a
                        little skillful intimidation. She began to feel for her handkerchief. But as
                        a woman has but one pocket it often becomes a necessary and natural thing
                        for her to remove the superimposed strata in order to reach those below.
                        Nancy first pulled out the pocket-Testament Mark had given her in a moment
                        of effusive zeal.
                    "Do you know that?" she said. "May be you don't  ricollect. Folks forgits their country friends mighty easy. I pack this
                        Testament around weth me all the time." She saw on Mark's face signs that
                        the torture was working, and she was happy.
                    "I declar'! ef I haint got this weth me too," and she fished out the watch
                        seal. "I hadn't oughter keep that in my pocket. I wouldn't lose it fer
                        money," and she held it up and looked at it. "When folks talks about your
                        marryin' somebody they don't know't I've got this purty thing in my pocket,
                        do they?"
                    "Mark," said Colonel Bonamy, who had now heard enough to guess at the state
                        of the case, "take this over to the clerk's office," handing a paper. "See
                        that it is fixed up all right. Don't hurry." The junior started off. "Take
                        plenty of time and be careful," the old man called after him.
                    Mark had turned toward his father with his face aflame with mortification.
                        But the old man spoke dryly as though he were particularly interested in the
                        business intrusted to his son. The young man had no doubt that his father
                        had some ulterior purpose in thus sending him away, but he was so glad to be
                        rid of his position between the uncomfortable Nancy on one side and the
                        uncomfortable parent on the other, that he was quite willing to take the
                        risk of his father's adroit cross-questioning of the girl. He could not
                        divine what was Colonel Bonamy's purpose, but he knew that all the
                        information that Nancy could give would be extracted in the interest of that
                        purpose. When he arrived at the county clerk's office and opened the
                        carefully folded paper, only to find to his confusion that it was blank, he
                        understood that he had been sent out of the office to remain away until
                        Nancy should depart. He made a bungling excuse to the clerk for having
                        brought a  blank paper, but he drew a
                        favorable augury from his father's action.
                    It was characteristic of the elder Bonamy that he did not begin to speak at
                        once. He scratched a few lines with the pen, to put possible suspicions out
                        of the mind of the witness, then began with commonplace remarks about her
                        father and his local influence on Rocky Fork, proceeded with some very bold
                        flatteries quite suited to the palate of the girl, who seriously began to
                        debate, whether, failing the son, she should not try for the father. Then
                        the old lawyer set her to talking about Mark; drew from her first one and
                        then another particular of the young man's conduct; chuckled with her over
                        her adroitness in capturing the watch-seal; took her side in the whole
                        matter, laughed at Mark's piety; got out of her an account of the transfer
                        of the Testament to her; led her off on an unsuspecting account of her other
                        numerous triumphs; applauded her victory over McGowan; got her to boast in
                        detail of the arts she made use of in capturing her admirers; drew out of
                        her by piecemeal a statement of her motives in getting the Testament from
                        Mark; and even, by espousing her side of the case, compelled an implied
                        admission of her intent in coming to town at that time.
                    He had now given the fish all the line that seemed best. It was time to reel
                        in as he could. But while her complacent vanity was yet untouched by any
                        suspicion of his purpose he made a vain endeavor to get possession of the
                        Testament and watch-seal.
                    "No sirï¿½no sirï¿½eeï¿½no-sirï¿½ee, Bob!" cried the girl with a
                        you-don't-catch-me air. She did not for a moment doubt that she could outwit
                        any lawyer. She would show him!
                    "Oh, I only wanted to use it to plague Mark with. You see I'm determined to
                        have my way with him."
                    
                    But the girl was not at all sure that Colonel Bonamy's way was her way. She
                        put the keepsakes back in her pocket, and then gave the pocket a little pat
                        with her hand, as though she said: "Let him get them, if he can." This
                        little dumb show did not escape Bonamy's quick observation, and he saw the
                        hopelessness of trying to replevin the trinkets, only saying,
                    "You know what you're about, don't you?"
                    But he began cautiously to tighten the line. He questioned Nancy now in a
                        harder tone, putting her conduct in a light not so favorable to herself.
                        Seizing on points here and there, he grouped them so that they seemed ugly.
                        Nancy became irritated and denied what she had said before. Then the lawyer,
                        with a good-natured smile, that had just a tinge of something not so
                        pleasant as a smile, pointed out the contradiction. It was vain that Nancy
                        went into a passionï¿½the lawyer was quiet, and even friendly. He wished to
                        help her out of some vague legal difficulty and shameful disgrace that he
                        pretended to see in store for her. For the first time in her life afraid to
                        give vent to her wrath, contending as she never had before, with a man who
                        cared no more for her blandishments than he feared her temper, and who was
                        as superior to her in craft as in knowledge, with pride and vanity wounded,
                        and without power, to avenge the injury, or certainty even that there was
                        any injury to avenge, she found herself badgered and hemmed in on every
                        side. The lawyer made her words seem something else than she meant. She was
                        not very scrupulous about telling the truth, but Colonel Bonamy, without
                        saying anything discourteous, made her appear a monstrous liar, by giving
                        back her words in senses different from what she had intended. At last, in
                        sheer despair and defeat, she rose  to go, red
                        with suppressed irritation, and biting her lips.
                    "Don't hurry," said the colonel. "Sit down. Mark will surely be here soon,
                        and if he thinks as much of you as you seem to think he does, he'll be sorry
                        to have you go while he is away. You say he is fond of
                        you, and I suppose it is so, but you must not say one thing now and another
                        after a while. Sit down."
                    Cowed by the steady, penetrating gaze of the old man's hard gray eyes, she
                        sank back into the chair, to undergo again a process of mental and moral
                        dissection, even more severe than that she had before experienced. Defeat is
                        a thousand-fold worse to an overbearing person accustomed to triumph, than
                        to another, and Nancy was by this time in a state of frenzy. She must break
                        out in some desperate fashion, or die.
                    "Colonel Bonamy," she cried, getting to her feet, and looking now like a
                        volcano in eruption. "What do you keep on axin an' axin sech questions fer?
                        Confound yer lawyers' questions! You set me crazy, and make me out a liar in
                        spite of myself. Go to thunder, I tell you, with yer blamed axin me this and
                        axin me that. I'll do as I please, and say what I want to; you see if I
                        don't, dog-on you!"
                    "I would," said the colonel, chuckling. "If I was pretty like you, I'd do as
                        I pleased, too." And after a pause, he added, in an audible aside,ï¿½"if I
                        went to penitentiary for it. Those trinkets of Mark's would do to begin suit
                        against him in case he don't marry you, and I don't believe he will. But
                        then, there's all the rest that gave you things,ï¿½let's see, McGowan, and
                        Jackson, and Lumbkin, and Billings, and all of them. It might go awful hard
                        with you, if it could be proved you were engaged  to so many at once. That's more'n the law allows. You know
                        there's a law against a girl being engaged to so many at once. Let's see,
                        how many was it all at once that you said? McGowan, that's one, and Jackson
                        is two, andï¿½"
                    "I'm agoin'; blamed if I haint! I don't want no more jaw, lawyers or no
                        lawyers. I'm one as can take keer of myself, anyhow!"
                    "Well, I'm sorry you won't wait longer. Mark'll be backï¿½"
                    But Nancy was already going out of the door, crying with vexation.
                    The colonel went after her. He wanted to say just one thing more, he told
                        her. She stopped, and he held her by his awful gray eyes while he asked,
                        severely:
                    "Did you say, or didn't you say, that Major Lathers was at your house the
                        might you say you danced with Mark?"
                    "Your axin questions ag'in, an' I wont stan' no more of yer axin, I tell you!
                        You may ax tell ye're blind."
                    "You'd better answer that. Remember I know all about these things, now.
                        You've told me yourself."
                    "No, you don't. I sha'n't tell you whether Lathers was there or not. You're
                        just windin' me up and windin' me up, with yer axin. You may ax tell yer
                        blind."
                    "Was Lathers at your house the night you say you danced with Mark? You may
                        so. I don't know whether it is so or not. You don't always tell the same
                        story. It mayn't be true."
                    "I tell you it is true, you oldï¿½you oldï¿½"
                    "Well, what? Speak right out. It'll do you good. I'm an old what?"
                    But Nancy choked herself, and kept down her epithets, fearing something, she
                        could not tell what.
                    
                    "I was going to give you some good advice," proceeded Bonamy. "But it don't
                        matter to me what becomes of you, if you talk that way. I don't believe now
                        that Mark danced with you at all."
                    "You don't, hey? You jest go right straight and ax Major Lathers. Didn't he
                        try to keep Mark from dancin' with me? He'll tell you all about it."
                    "Oh, that's what I wanted to knowï¿½whether Lathers was there or not. You've
                        told me now."
                    "No, I haint, nuther."
                    "Why, how could Lathers tell me about Mark's dancing with you, and how could
                        he try to keep Mark from duncing with you, if he was not there? But I won't
                        tell Lathers," he added, as though in a half soliloquy, "for I don't want to
                        get you into trouble. You know he's sheriff, and the sheriff takes up
                        people. If I should tell him you were in town nowï¿½. But you said he was
                        there that night, didn't you?"
                    "I haint agoin' to talk to you no more. You'll make me tell more'n I ever
                        know'd, in spite of myself, with yer everlastin' talkin', an' talkin', an'
                        axin an' axin. Go long with yer oldï¿½"
                    But Nancy did not finish her sentence. Bonamy had cowed her so that she
                        feared she knew not what of defeat and mortification if she should say
                        another word, and she was utterly choked with vexation.
                    Colonel Bonamy had at least made sure that Nancy would carry no confidences
                        to the ingenious sheriff. His vague hints had excited an undefined fear in
                        her ignorant mind, already cowed by the badgering and tormenting course of
                        cross-questioning to which she had been subjected. The whole machinery of
                        the law was incomprehensible by her, and she was not sure but that Major  Lathers, if he should come to know how many
                        engaged lovers she had had at one time, might send the jury to arrest her,
                        whereupon she would be in danger of being tried by a lot of lawyers and
                        colonels, and then locked up by the judge.
                    She went back to Haz Kirtley's full of wrath, but all her ferocity was dammed
                        up and turned back in a flood of bitterness upon herself. So entirely had
                        the lawyer daunted her that she even feared to resort to her extreme revenge
                        of an interview with Roxy. Roxy might triumph over her also, exulting in her
                        own success. She sullenly put the saddle on old Bob and rode away up the
                        hill, stopping at the top to shake her fist and threaten that she would yet
                        come back and tell that good-for-nothing town girl something that would make
                        her hate Mark Bonamy.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII.
                    EVERMORE.
                    MRS. HANKS offered to make a wedding
                        for Roxy. She was quite willing to increase her own social importance by
                        this alliance of Roxy's. But the bride would not have her aunt's fine
                        wedding. She did not want a fine wedding at all. To marry the hero she
                        worshiped and then to start hand in hand with him to the wildest and
                        savagest country they could find, there to live and labor for the rescue of
                        the souls of wicked people, entirely satisfied her ambition.
                    She did not like to accept a wedding from her aunt, for Roxy's humility was
                        purely a reliious humility; her pride was quick; to be poor did not trouble
                        herï¿½to be patronized was intolerable, most of all to be patronized by Mrs.
                        Hanks. And had Roxy been willing, Adams would have refused; all his native
                        crookedness was intensified by his antipathy to his sister-in-law. But Roxy
                        accepted from her aunt the loan of Jemima, whose hands rendered an energetic
                        assistance, but whose tongue could not be quite still. Instead of denouncing
                        Mark in particular, she now gave way to philippics against men in general.
                        Roxy's dreams of a lodge in some vast wilderness, with Mark's love to
                        comfort her and a semi-martyrdom to glorify her, were rudely disturbed by
                        Jemima's incessant exposition of the faithlessness and selfishness of the
                        "male sect," as she called it. "They can't no more be depended
                    
                    on than a rotten log across a crick. Looks all right, kivered over with moss;
                        but jest try to cross on it onst and the crick'll come flyin' up in yore
                        face. I wouldn't marry the whole twelve apossils theirselves. Jest look at
                        Simon Peter and Judas Iscariot, for instance. I tell you what it is, Roxy,
                        the heart of man is deceitful, and some men's hearts is
                        desp'rate."
                    Twonnet helped also in the wedding preparations, and she was rather more
                        comfortable than Jemima. For when once a wedding is determined on, one ever
                        hopes for the best. The parson, when he blesses the most ill-starred match,
                        hopes for impossible good luck to give happiness to a couple foreordained to
                        misery. Twonnet showed her solicitude now and then by lapses of silence
                        quite unusual. Between the silence of the one and the speech of the other of
                        her helpmates, Roxy wished for Texas.
                    As Colonel Bonamy considered Mark's marriage with Roxy the surest means of
                        defeating the missionary project, he wished to hasten the wedding, lest
                        something should happen to interfere with his plan. In particular did he
                        appreciate the necessity for haste after his meeting with Nancy. Nancy might
                        appeal to Roxy, or Lathers might get hold of the story and use it to Mark's
                        discredit and his father's annoyance. If he could once get Mark married, he
                        would have placed him in a position of dependence. However, the colonel had
                        a liking for a good wife as a thing that was sure to be profitable to a man.
                        Roxy probably had no extravagant tastes, would be flattered by her marriage
                        into such a family as the Bonamys, and her influence over Mark would, after
                        a while, be just sufficient to keep him sober and steady at his work.
                        Besides, he feared that, if Nancy had any real hold on Mark, she would find
                        it greatly increased in case both the marriage  with Roxy and the mission to Texas were given up. So it happened, through
                        the planning of the colonel, that the wedding was fixed for the second week
                        following the raid of Nancy.
                    There was nothing out of the ordinary about Roxy's wedding. There were
                        present her aunt's family and Twonnet's Miss Rachel Moore, who was to take
                        her place as mistress of the house the next week, was there, of course, and
                        Colonel Bonamy and his daughters, and as many besides as the old house would
                        hold. Adams had asked Whittaker, but the minister had not come. Jemima stood
                        in the background, the most impressive figure of all. The Methodist
                        presiding elder, a venerable, white-haired man, familiarly called "Uncle
                        Jimmy Jones," conducted the simple service.
                    I said there was nothing out of the ordinary. But Bobo was there. For days he
                        had watched the cake-baking and the other preparations. He heard somebody
                        say that Roxy was to be married, and he went about the house coming the
                        saying like a lesson, as though he were trying to get some meaning out of
                        it.
                    "Roxy is going to be married," he would say over and over, from morning till
                        night. When he saw the company gathering, he went into an eestasy of
                        confused excitement. And when at last Roxy came into the room, in her simple
                        bridal dress, he broke from his mother's side and seized Roxy's disengaged
                        hand. Jemima and his mother made an effort to recapture him, but Roxy turned
                        and said, "Let him come."
                    "Let him come," echoed Bobo, and walking by the side of the bride and her
                        bridegroom till they halted in front of the minister, he looked up at the
                        stately old man and said with childish glee, "Roxy's going to be
                        married."
                    
                    This outburst of Bobo's sent the color of Mrs. Hanks's face up to searlet.
                        What would the Bonamys think? Jemima put her handkerchief over her mouth to
                        stitle a laugh, and Amanda Bonamy turned her head. Couldn't they keep the
                        simpleton at home? The old minister was confused for a moment, but the smile
                        on Roxy's face reassured him. The lad stood still listening to the ceremony
                        and repeating it over in an inaudible whisper. When the minister concluded
                        the benediction with the words: "Be with you evermore," Bobo caught at the
                        last word and cried: "evermore, Roxy, evermore!"
                    "Yes, Bobo, dear," said the bride, turning to him and looking down into his
                        wistful eyes. "Yes, evermore and evermore."
                    Perhaps because they were embarrassed by this unexpected episode, the company
                        were silent, while Bobo for a moment turned over in his mind the word. Then
                        by some association he connected it with the last words of the prayer Roxy
                        had taught him. He went in front of her and looked at her with the awed look
                        he had caught from her in repeating his prayer, he pointed up as she had
                        pointed in teaching him, and said:
                    "Forever and ever, amen."
                    "Yes, Bobo, forever and ever, amen, and now you shall have the very first
                        kiss."
                    "The very first kiss," chuckled the innocent, as he turned away after Roxy
                        had kissed him.
                    Through all this interruption Adams stood by the long clock and held on to
                        the lappel of his coat firmly and defiantly. He had a notion that the
                        Bonamys thought that their family lent a luster to Roxy and he wanted to
                        knock some of them over, but he kept firm hold of his coat and contented
                        himself with looking like a wild beast at bay.
                    
                    Mrs. Hanks whispered to her husband that she felt as if she could sink
                        through the floor, and, indeed, she was quite flustered when she came to
                        wish the newly married "much joy," and quite thrown out of the fine speech
                        she had prepared for delivery to Mark. Amanda Bonamy kissed Roxy
                        condescendingly as became a well-bred girl; but when it came to Janet's
                        turn, she kissed Roxy first on one cheek and then on the other, called her a
                        dear, dear sister and said:
                    "Wasn't that sweet that poor little Bobo said? It made your wedding so solemn
                        and beautifulï¿½just like your wedding ought to be."
                    And from that moment Roxy took the enthusiastic girl into her heart of
                        hearts. She made her sit by her at the wedding dinner to make which had
                        exhausted all the skill of Roxy and her helpers, and the whole purse of her
                        father. For the custom of that time did not allow of coffee and sandwiches
                        and cake passed around the room. As for light breakfasts and an immediate
                        departure on a tour to nowhere in particular, that only came in with
                        locomotives and palace ears. In the good old days it cost as much to get
                        married as it does now to be buried; one must then feed one's friends on
                        fried chickens and roast turkeys and all sorts of pies, and pound cake and
                        "floating island," and "peach cobbler,"ï¿½an enormous dish of pastry
                        inclosing whole peaches, pits and allï¿½and preserves with cream, and grape
                        jellies, andï¿½but this is not a bill of fare.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX.
                    THE INFARE.
                    THERE could be no wedding in a Hoosier village thirty or
                        forty years ago without an infare on the following day. In those days the
                            faring into the house of the bridegroom's parents was
                        observed with great rejoicing. At an earlier stage of the village's history
                        the little brass cannon was fired in honor of weddings and almost the whole
                        town kept holiday. On the day after Roxy's wedding Colonel Bonamy made a
                        great infare as became a great man like himself. It was preceded by a week
                        of cooking and baking. On the day of the infare, "Uncle Billy," a skillful
                        old negro, was imported from Kentucky to roast the pig which hung suspended
                        by a wire in front of the wide ktchen fire-place, while Billy turned it
                        round and round, basting it from time to time. For roast-pig at a wedding
                        feast was the symbol of aristocracy,ï¿½a Bonamy might lose his soul, but he
                        could not be married without a pig.
                    Everybody who could be considered at all invitable was there. The Boones and
                        Haz Kirtley's family and the fishermen's families and the poor-whiteys
                        generally were left out, but everybody who was anybody was there. Not only
                        from town but from the country and even from the Kentucky shore guests were
                        brought. Neither age nor sex was respected. Old Mother Tartrum was there
                        engaged in her diligent search after knowledge. She was in  herself a whole Society for the Collection
                        and Diffusion of Useless Information. She also collected various titbits of
                        cake off the supper-table which she wrapped in her red silk handkerchief and
                        deposited in her pocket. She was a sort of animated Dictionary of Universal
                        Biography for the town, able to tell a hundred unimportant incidents in the
                        life of any person in the place, and that without being consulted.
                    Whittaker had sunk into a helpless despondency as the time of Roxy's marriage
                        approached, and he could not bring himself to be present at the wedding. But
                        fearing unfriendly remark he had brought his courage to the point of
                        attending the infare. He came late, however, and the house and ground were
                        already filled with guests. He walked up between the long row of Lombardy
                        poplars, looking at the brightly illuminated house of the Bonamys, which,
                        lying on the outskirts of the town, combined in itself something of the
                        sprueeness of the town-house with the isolation of a farm-house. The house
                        was a squarish brick one, the walks were of gravel. There was a lawn of
                        greensward on either hand with a vineyard and fields of tasseled corn in the
                        moonlit background. People were all about him as he approached the house,
                        and many greeted him as he passed. But Whittaker was a man marching in his
                        own funeral procession. Despite his utmost exertion to address Mark and Roxy
                        with cheerfulness, there was that in his face which caused Mark to say to
                        Roxy as he turned away:
                    "What a serious looking man he is!"
                    And his seriousness had something infections about it, for Roxy did not
                        recover a bridal cheerfulness for some time afterward.
                    Out of respect for Mark's and Roxy's scruples, and, too,  for Mark's semi-clerical position as a "local" or lay preacher
                        on his way to a further promotion into the "traveling" ministry, there was
                        no dancing. The company promenaded in the halls and up and down the gravel
                        walks between the Lombardy poplars, and among the sprucely trimmed pyramidal
                        cedars that stood about the house.
                    Something in Whittaker's gloomy mood made him averse to the throng of merry
                        people, the more that, on account of the rumors which had circulated about
                        his attachment to Roxy, he was closely watched. About ten o'clock Mother
                        Tartrum met him and put him through his catechism with vigor. Had he ever been engaged to Roxy? He might tell an old woman like
                        herself, in confidence! How was it broken off? Was it be that withdrew, or
                        did Roxy refuse him? Had Mr. Highbury given him a piece of
                        his mind? Wasn't he feeling rather bad to-night?
                    To all of these questions the minister flatly refused to reply, and at last
                        brusquely walked away, turning into an unfrequented path bordered by privet
                        hedge. This led him to the garden, into which he entered by a gate through a
                        paling fence. He went down under the grape-arbor that stood, according to
                        the unvarying fashion of the country, in the middle of the garden. Walking
                        quietly and meditatively, he came to the other side of the garden, where he
                        turned and saw full before him the brilliantly lighted house, and the
                        company moving up and down the walks and through the rooms. He could plainly
                        see the figure of Roxy, as she stood by her husband, cheerful now and
                        diffusing light on all about her. Mark, for his part, was always cheerful;
                        there was not a vein of austerity in his composition. He was too hopeful to
                        fear  for the future, and too buoyantly happy
                        and complacent to be disturbed by anything. Certainly he was a fine-looking
                        man, standing there in the light of a multitude of candles, and entering
                        with his limitless heartiness into the merriment of the throng about him,
                        giving back banter for banter with the quick sallies of the racy humor of
                        the country. But there was something about this popular young fellow,
                        carrying all before him, which gave Whittaker a sense of foreboding. Does a
                        rejected lover ever think that the woman has done quite so well for her own
                        interest as she might?
                    Fast by Roxy stood Twonnet. There was a sort of separation of feeling between
                        them now; but Roxy was soon to go away, and Twonnet determined to stand by
                        her to the last. If she had looked upon the marriage as the town saw
                        it,ï¿½as an ascent for Roxy,ï¿½she would have chosen to be elsewhere; but
                        because Roxy had not done as well as she might, Twonnet stood by her with a
                        chivalrous faithfulness. Whittaker, in his mood of unreason, took Twonnet's
                        fidelity to Roxy in umbrage, as a sort of desertion of himself. It is so
                        hard for us to understand why our friends do not feel our wrongs so
                        poignantly as we do.
                    Whittaker could not help wondering what Adams was thinking of, as he stood
                        defiantly against the wall, grasping the lappel of his coat, as though he
                        would hold firmly to his propriety by this means.
                    The minister had stood thus more than a minute, when the company were
                        summoned to supper. The table was spread on the porch which ran along the
                        side of the L of the house in full view from his stand-point. He could see
                        the fine-looking bridegroom lead the procession to the table, and all the
                        company following. He thought that  he ought
                        to return to the house, lest his absence should be observed.
                    But just as he was about to make a languid movement in the direction of the
                        supper, he heard a stealthy tread on the outside of the vine-covered garden
                        fence. He listened until the person walking along the fence had passed a few
                        feet further on. A cluster of lilac-bushes intervened between him and the
                        position of the new-comer; but he could hear a suppressed voice, as of a
                        woman in soliloquy:
                    "That's her, shore as shootin'. She aint purty, neither, nor never was. I'll
                        pay her up! See ef I don't. She thinks she's got him now. An' all that
                        finery and flummery. I ort to be there at that table. Folks would see
                        somebody ef I was there. But she's ornery,ï¿½ornery as git out. I kin git
                        him away from her of I ever git half a chance. They'd better go to Texas
                        party shortly, ef she knows what's good fer her. I'll show her. Saltpeter
                        wont save 'em ef they stay here." Then, after a long pause: "She'll wish she
                        was dead afore I'm done. Let her larn to steal my beam. Ef
                        she packs him off to Texas, I'll foller, sure. An' I'll pay her up, or my
                        name haint Nancy Kirtley."
                    To Whittaker the whole speech was evidently the thinking aloud of an ignorant
                        person full of suppressed passion. The tone frightened him, and he moved
                        cautiously so as to get a view of the speaker. Her hair was pushed back from
                        her low forehead in a disheveled fashion, and even in the moonlight he could
                        see the fine eyes and the large, regular features, and could feel a certain
                        impression of the great animal beauty of the woman standing there, not ten
                        feet from him, with fists clenched hard, and a look of ferocity on her
                        countenance that he had never seen on human face before. She reminded  him of nothing so much as of an old
                        steel-plate print he had seen of Judith with the bloody head of Holofernes.
                        Having no knowledge of Nancy, Whittaker did not understand the meaning of
                        her words; but he could make out that some evil was intended to Roxy.
                    His first impulse was to call Colonel Bonmay. Then in his confused thought
                        came a pity for the poor girl torn thus by her evil passions, and a sense of
                        his duty to her; he would go and try to exorcise the demon.
                    Nancy had come to town resolved to prevent Mark's marriage at any cost. She
                        would show the watch-seal and the Testament to Roxy, and thus awaken her
                        jealousy if she could. She would even threaten Mark with exposure of some
                        sort, or with slanderous charges. She would not be outwitted by the old man
                        any more, she would go to jail, if she had to go to jail; but she would have
                        her revenge. Great was her chagrin at finding the wedding already past and
                        the infare set down for that very evening. There was nothing left for her
                        but to fume and threaten retribution. Her rage had brought her here,ï¿½envy
                        and malice are devils that drive possessed souls into the contemplation of
                        that which aggravates their madness.
                    Nancy stood thus in this torturing perdition of Tantalus,ï¿½maddened by
                        seeing the pomp into which another poor girl had come instead of
                        herself,ï¿½maddened by the very sight of happy faces and the sound of merry
                        voices, while she was in the outer darkness where there was weeping and
                        guashing of teeth. She stood there with her fist shut up and her face
                        distorted by wrathï¿½as a lost soul might curse the far-away heavenï¿½when
                        she heard from the bushes behind her the voice of Whittaker.
                    "What is the matter with you, my friend?" He had  almost said Judith, so much was his imagination impressed by the
                        resemblance of the swarthy beauty to the picture of that magnificent Hebrew
                        assassin.
                    When he spoke Nancy gave a sudden start, not of timidity, but of wrathï¿½as a
                        wild beast might start at an interruption when about to spring upon the
                        prey.
                    "What do you want with me?" she muttered in sullen fierceness.
                    Whittaker drew a little nearer with a shudder.
                    "Only to help you if I can. What can I do for you?"
                    "Nothing, I reckon, unless you kill that woman."
                    "What woman?"
                    "That Adams girl that's gone and married Mark Bonamy."
                    "What should I kill her for?"
                    "Bekase. I hate the sights of her.
                    What harm has she done?"
                    "She stole my bean. Do you know that I had ort by rights to stand there at
                        that there table by Mark Bonamy, and that mean, hateful huzzy's seronged
                        into my placeï¿½confound her! Now then, anybody that meddles with Nance
                        Kirtely is sorry fer it afore they're done. Ef Mark and the old man and that
                        ugly, good-fer-nothing', prayin', shoutin' Roxy Adams don't wesh they'd
                        never hearn tell of me, then I'm a fool. You jest let anybody cross my path oust ef they want to be sorry fer it."
                    "Don't you know that you oughtn't to talk that way? Roxy didn't do you any
                        harm. You hadn't any right to Mark because you loved him."
                    "Stranger, looky thereï¿½that's his Testament. He gin me that weth his own
                        hands. There! that's his watch-seal. Pulled it off and gin it to me. Now,
                        what made him leave me and go to that homely, lantern-jawed, slab-sided  thing of a shoe-maker's gal? Hey? She done
                        it. That's what she was up to weth her prayin' and talkin' and singin'. I'll
                        pay her up yet. See ef I don't."
                    At sight of these ocular proofs of Mark's attachment to Nancy, Whittaker was
                        silent a moment.
                    "Does Roxy know anything about these things?" he said after a while.
                    "In course not."
                    "What do you hate her for?"
                    "What fer? Thunder and blazes! Jes look at the blamed, stuck-up,
                        good-fer-nothin' thing there! She's got my placeï¿½why shouldn't I hate her?
                        Ah-h-h youï¿½ugh-h-h, you ugly old thing youï¿½I'll make you cry nuff afore
                        I'm done weth you." And Nancy shook her fist in the direction of Roxy.
                    "You oughtn't to talk in that way. Don't you know there's a God?"
                    "God or no God, I'm agoin' to git even weth Mark Bonamy and that hateful wife
                        of his'n. Why didn't he ax me to his infare? Hey? Comes to my house and
                        dances with me the livelong night. Gives me presents and talks as sweet as
                            sugar-water.* Then he marries old Tom Adams's girl and don't ax
                        me to the party, nur nothin'. I'll pay him back one of these yer days."
                            * The sap of the
                            sugar-maple.
                    
                    Seeing that further remonstrance was of no use Whittaker went down the walk
                        to the house. Colonel Bonamy met him.
                    "Why, where have you been? We looked for you to say grace," said the old
                        man.
                    "Colonel Bonamy, there's an infuriated young woman standing behind the bushes
                        down at the other end of the  garden. She is
                        mad about something, and I'm afraid she means some violence to Roxy."
                    "Oh yes, I guess I can tell who she is. She's a maniac after Mark. I'll go
                        and see her."
                    And while Whittaker went in to supper with melancholy suspicions of Mark, the
                        colonel walked swiftly round the outside of the garden and came up behind
                        Nancy.
                    "Well, what's all this about?"
                    "You old brute, you," said Nancy; "why didn't you give me an invite? I'll pay
                        you all back yet, see if I don't!"
                    "Don't talk so loud. The sheriff might hear you. He's in the house."
                    "Call him out here if you want to, you blasted fool," said the girl, now
                        fully roused, and not fearing any danger that looked her fair in the
                        face.
                    The colonel saw that he must take another tack.
                    "Oh no! I won't call him. Only be quiet, and come in and get some supper. I
                        want to ask you some more questions about the things we talked about the
                        other day."
                    "No, you don't. You don't ax me nothin'. You want to wind me up and tangle me
                        up, tell I don't know my own name. No more of yer axin' fer me."
                    "You've got a seal of my son's?"
                    "Yes, I have."
                    "Did anybody see him give you that seal?"
                    "No, they didn't."
                    "You are sure?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Did he give it to you?"
                    "In course he did. How else did I get it?"
                    "You could steal it, couldn't you?"
                    
                    "Youï¿½youï¿½you durn't say I'm a thief!"
                    "Did you say that you stole it?"
                    "No, I didn't! You know I didn't, blast you!"
                    "You said nobody saw him give it to you, and I didn't say you stole it. But
                        you just as good as say you did by getting so mad."
                    "You lie!"
                    "He was on his horse when you got it from him, wasn't he?"
                    "None of your axin, I tell you."
                    "There 'tis again. You know you stole it, or you wouldn't be afraid to
                        answer."
                    "You lie! He give it to me when he was a-settin' on his horse, in front of
                        our house."
                    "And your father didn't see him?"
                    "No, he didn't."
                    "Nor your mother?"
                    "No."
                    "Nor nobody?"
                    "No."
                    "You got it from him when he was on his horse?"
                    "Yes."
                    "How did it come off his chain?"
                    "He unhooked it."
                    "You unhooked it, you said the other day. Now tell me the truth."
                    "Well, he let me." The girl began to quail under this steady fire of
                        questions.
                    "You say you got it from him. What's that but
                        stealing?"
                    "He give it to me."
                    "You unhooked it."
                    "Go 'way with your axin."
                    
                    And the girl started to move off.
                    "Hold on. I'm not done yet."
                    "Yes, you air, too. I wont have no more of your fool axin. I'm agoin'."
                    "Stop! I say. You're on my ground, and I'll call the sheriff, if you don't
                        stop."
                    "Call him cf you want to, an' go to thunder with you both?" And with this she
                        went sullenly off, the colonel affecting to detain her. Nancy was afraid of
                        nothing in the world so much as of his fire of questions, and the irritation
                        and mortification sure to ensue from the confusion into which he would lead
                        her.
                    The terror which the questions inspired, added to the reaction from her burst
                        of passion, served to give her a general sense of fear, that drove her away
                        into the darkness, though she muttered defiance as she slowly retreated into
                        the corn-field.
                    "They'll be sorry they ever crossed my path," were the last ominous words the
                        colonel heard from her, as he lost sight of her among the tall rows of
                        tasscled maize.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX.
                    LOVE AND GRAMMAR.
                    ON the day following Roxy's infare, Mr. Adams took Mr.
                        Whittaker down to Miss Rachel Moore's rooms, and, in defiance of all the
                        customs of the time, was married privately, with no witnesses but Mark and
                        Roxy. Miss Moore would have liked a little more of ceremony, a few friends,
                        and some little show. But when Mr. Adams told her that people of their age
                        would better be married without any nonsense, she answered, "Very likely,
                        very likely, my dear Mr. Adams! che-he-he."
                    On the night of the infare at Bonamy's, some of the young fellows who were
                        not invited, showed their wit by perpetrating a transpositionï¿½that joke
                        that is as old as sign-boards themselves. No doubt in Babylon sign-boards
                        were changed round at night so as to make good Assyriac puns and other such
                        jokes.
                    And what mischievous boys probably did in Babylon in B. C. 1841, that they
                        certainly did in Luzerne in A. D. 1841. For Mr. Adams, on the morning on
                        which he was to be married, found over his shoe-shop door a sign which read,
                        "Miss Moore, Millinery and Mantua-maker," and Rachel Moore came near
                        snickering her head off with mingled shame and pleasure to find "T. Adams,
                        Boot and Shoe-maker," at her place of business. It was characteristic of
                        Adams that he let the signs remain as they were that day. Only he had the
                        wedding earlier in the day,  telling Rachel
                        that when they were married the joke would be spoiled. To which she replied
                        that she thought it very likely indeed. At any rate she willingly conspired
                        to spoil the joke.
                    But the old man was resolved that the joke should go no further. Hearing that
                        he was to be shivereed that night, according to the usage by which widowers,
                        and old maids, and all whose weddings are eccentric, are screnaded with
                        skillet lids, and "dumb-bulls," and "horse-fiddles," and bells, and tin
                        pans, he put a stop to it in his own fashion. He borrowed a double-barrel
                        shot-gun, and carried it ostentatiously down the main street. When Tom
                        Pilman, the rough who led all such sercnading parties, saw him pass, and
                        hailed him with: "Hello, Adams! What you going to do with that gun?" he made
                        answer, "We're going to have a screnade at our house to-night, and a
                        coroner's inquest in the morning." The empty gun stood peacefully in a
                        corner that night, and there was no shiveree.
                    Mrs. Rachel wanted to continue her business, and Adams gave consent. There
                        was a dignity and authority about her position as modiste, which she did not
                        like to surrender. She thought she would rather keep "help" to do the work
                        at home, and go on as usual, dealing in ribbons, and bonnets, and general
                        intelligence. Only her husband stipulated that her sign must be changed.
                    "'Millinery and Mantua-maker,'" he said, sneeringly. "Why, you aren't for
                        sale, Rachel, are you?"
                    "Very likely, Mr. Adams," she said, in a blissful and absent-minded
                        titter.
                    "Why, Rachel, you must have lost your wits!"
                    "Very likely. Che-he-he!"
                    "But the sign must be changed so as to read 'Milliner  and Mantua-maker.' Don't you think it ought to be
                        changed?"
                    "Very likely. The 'Miss' ought to be changed to 'Mrs.' now. Che-he-he!"
                    Poor Miss Moore had dreamed so long of that change.
                    "That would make you Mrs. Moore," said Adams. "Aren't you going to take my
                        name?"
                    "Oh yes! I forgot. I'm Mrs. Adams. It seems so strange to change a lady's
                        nameï¿½che-heï¿½for the first time, you know. Now you're used to it, you
                        know. Oh! I forgotï¿½che-he-heï¿½men don'tï¿½che-he-heï¿½change their names,
                        do they?"
                    Adams gave up making her understand his scruples of grammar, at least until
                        she should recover from the idiocy of her honeymoon. He had the sign
                        changed, however, and Mrs. Rachel Adams read it every time she approached
                        the little shop, in a glad endeavor to impress it on her own mind that her
                        reproach among women was taken away, and that she was an old maid no longer,
                        but on a par with any other "Mrs." in town.
                    In the matter of finding a help, Mr. Adams consulted Jemima, whom he met in
                        the street. Did she know anybody that he could get?
                    "Yes, I 'low I do," she answered.
                    "A real good tempered person and trustworthy?" asked Adams.
                    "Awful trustworthy, and crusty enough to keep you company any day, Mr.
                        Adams."
                    "Well, who is it?" said the shoe-maker. "If she'll only quarrel with me, I
                        don't care. I'd like a little quarreling, and you can no more quarrel with
                        Rachel than you can with sunshine itself. Who is it that you mean?"
                    
                    "The fust letters of her name's Jemima Dumbleton, and she's got a powerful
                        dislike to the male sect in particular, and to most men in general."
                    "Would you leave Henrietta?"
                    "I ruther leave'r'n not. I dislike the male sect, but Henrietta I dislike on
                        her own particular account. She's too too good for me."
                    Adams was pleased to get Jemima, and immensely gratified at having a chance
                        to defy Mrs. Hanks at the same time. Poor subdued Mrs. Rachel was shocked.
                        To brave Mrs. Hanks was too much. But Adams told her that now she was his
                        wife, she must hold up her head and show her independence, or Henrietta
                        would run right over her. "You're a married woman now, Rachel," he
                        concluded.
                    At which Rachel smiled audibly, and answered, "Very likely, my dear."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI.
                    AN ATTEMPT TO FORECLOSE.
                    THE little teapot of Luzerne society had been agitated
                        during the two weeks of preparation for the marriage by surmises in regard
                        to the ulterior purpose of Colonel Bonamy in consenting to Mark's wedding
                        Roxy, and even offering him help conditioned on his marriage. To pious
                        people it seemed a special interference of Providence in favor of Texas. But
                        not so to the sage and sagacious Lathers. He knew nothing about
                        Providenceï¿½he felt distinctly his moral inability to understand God's way
                        of doing things, though if he thought about God at all it was doubtless as
                        one who was a good deal shrewder in carrying his selfish ends than men were
                        in achieving theirs. To him God and the devil were playing a series of
                        games, and though the former might now and then let the latter gain a few
                        points, it was only for the sake of making the play interesting, and of
                        finally beating the devil into utter bankruptcy and locking him up in
                        perdition for a thousand years. But if Lathers could not see through the
                        ways of Providence so well as some of his townsmen, he thought he did know
                        something about Colonel Bonamy.
                    "I say, watch out fer the devil when he is playin' possum," said Lathers.
                        "But what the dickens Colonel Bonamy's doin' now, I can't see. Him help the
                        missionary work? Not him. That aint his side of the question. Wait till you
                        see this game out. Wait till he begins to 
                        play the aces he's got up his sleeve. Now, liker'n not the old man's goin'
                        to git married to some young wife, er run fer Congress, and he wants Mark
                        away off among the Egyptians in the land of Babylon, an' the like. I'm purty
                        good at guessin', now,ï¿½I've knowed Colonel Bonamy nigh onto twenty-four
                        year, an' he's powerful deep. Now you just watch out fer him, will you, and
                        see cf he don't do somethin' like I say."
                    But Lathers was far out of the way. Colonel Bonamy began to urge first on
                        Mark and then on Roxy that they should postpone their journey.
                    "Better put it off till New Year's. It isn't safe going to that climate so
                        early," he said.
                    But the enthusiastic Roxy was hard to manage. Mark was impatient to be away,
                        as any active-minded young man is impatient to set out upon the achievement
                        of his purposes. He would have yielded readily enough, however,
                        notwithstanding his impatience; for, since his father's management of Nancy,
                        he felt a certain confidence in the friendliness of his purposes. But the
                        dire danger of souls without a shepherd oppressed the spirit of Roxy. It was
                        pleasant to her to enjoy, here in her own town, the devotion of Mark, the
                        fine-looking young husband of her heart; but, because it was pleasant, the
                        austere girl was eager to surrender it. Perhaps, too, there was in her mind
                        some latent dread lest an easy temper like Mark's might not hold firmly
                        fixed a severe resolution not immediately put into execution. So she
                        resisted energetically, and with success, the influence of Colonel Bonamy's
                        persuasions on the mind of Mark. If he did not go at the time appointed,
                        Roxy urged, the bishop would not want him at all. Indeed, this uncertainty
                        and complexity of motive drove the straightforward Roxy into an irritable
                        energy  of temper which was a surprise to
                        herself. She longed to be where she could act again directly toward a
                        definite aim.
                    All the time that this discussion was being waged, and Colonel Bonamy was
                        seeking some means of detaining Mark without a point-blank refusal to keep
                        his agreement in the matter of furnishing money, Mark was supposed to be
                        engaged in studies preparatory to his ministrations among the Texans.
                        Wesley's "Sermons," and Watson's "Institutes of Theology" were especially
                        prescribed; but to a man of Mark's animal spirits and glowing feelings, the
                        clear-cut and severely unrhetorical sentences of Wesley seemed
                        uninteresting, while the long-linked reasoning of Watson, by which it was
                        clearly demonstrated that fore-knowledge was not fore-ordination, even where
                        God himself was the foreknower, was decidedly dry. He liked better a copy of
                        Maffit's "Sermons," then fresh from the press, and full of far-resounding
                        bombast about the stage-fixings of the day of judgment. But he managed to
                        get on in the arduons task of reading Wesley and Watson, by dint of
                        reclining laboriously on the bed, while Roxy sat by the window and read to
                        him, putting something of the fire of her own enthusiasm into Wesley's grave
                        and simple diction and changing Watson's abstruse speculations almost into
                        poetry by the illumination of her imagination.
                    On Sundays, Mark exercised himself in preaching in the country school-houses.
                        The young missionary was quite the lion, and the crowds of listening people
                        that came to hear him, and, above all, the eyes of his young wife stimulated
                        him to addresses of much warmth. They seemed to Mark far better than
                        Wesley's.
                    Meantime Colonel Bonamy drew the reins tighter on  his son. Now that Mark was married, he could not go to Texas
                        on the pittance the church would pay, and the father had some difficulty in
                        remembering that he had made any definite promise in the matter. At most, he
                        could not raise the money before midwinter, and as he did not believe in
                        their going to the South until January, he was not going to hurry himself.
                        People who were going to be dependent should not be too domineering about
                        it.
                    Slowly, as the old colonel began to hint that preaching in Indiana would do
                        just as well, Mark perceived his duplicity; and, by degrees, he came to
                        understand that his father had not intended to have him go to Texas at all.
                        No man of Mark's spirit likes to be managed, and when once the scheme by
                        which he had been encouraged to marry for the sake of keeping him at home
                        dawned upon him, all his pride and combativeness were carried over to Roxy's
                        side of the question.
                    "I am going to start to Texas by the 'Duke of --leans,'"
                        he said one day, with great positiveness. "She will leave Cincinnati about
                        the middle of October."
                    "Well," said the old man in a whining drawl, under which he always covered
                        any expression of defianceï¿½"Well, if you go in the middle of October,
                        instead of waiting until the time I have set, you must not expect me to keep
                        you from starving. You'll have too look out for yourselves."
                    "That's just what we've made up our minds to," rejoined the son. "If we can't
                        live on what missionary money we are to have, we will scratch for a living,
                        like other poor emigrants."
                    "You can't pay your traveling expenses out there," said the old man.
                    
                    "By selling my horse, and some other things, I can get there."
                    "And ride afoot when you get there, eh?"
                    "Well, I'm going. That's the long and short of it."
                    "Well, you can go to the devil, for all of me," said the old man, turning
                        sharply away.
                    Mark was resolved not to be the dupe of his father, and Roxy, for her part,
                        was rather pleased with the prospect of extreme poverty in the mission work.
                        It filled her ideal. Indeed Colonel Bonamy was in every way disappointed in
                        Roxy. She did not seem at all afraid of him, nor in the least conscious that
                        she had married above her station, and she showed a resistance to his
                        domineering will that was beyond anything he had imagined possible. His
                        interviews in private with his daughter-in-law were a succession of defeats.
                        She even showed, on occasion, a temper that seemed to him quite inconsistent
                        with her general saintliness.
                    But Colonel Bonamy had not yet "played out his game," as he phrased it.
                    "Mark," he began, as they two sat together in the office one day, "you never
                        asked me how I came out with your Rocky Fork girl."
                    "She's none of mine," said Mark.
                    "She shows rather strong proofs of your liking for her. You don't give your
                        watch-seals and Testaments to every young convert, do you? Now, if Nancy
                        were to bring a suit for breach of promise of marriage, these things might
                        play the deuce with you. And she would have done it if it hadn't been for
                        me. I kept the facts out of Lathers's hands, and I had hard work to keep her
                        from coming in and making a row at the infare. If you and Mrs. Roxy are too
                        stubborn, I don't know but that I'd better just let  things take their course. I think you'd hardly set out on it
                        mission to Texas with such charges against you." The old man emphasized this
                        with a sinister laugh, very provoking to the other.
                    You'd look well, setting such charges a-going against your own son," retorted
                        Mark, reflecting that his father's family pride was protection enough from
                        the execution of that threat.
                    But he was not at ease. Secretly he feared Nancy. Since his wedding, he had
                        twice seen her at a distance in Luzerne, and had turned out of his way to
                        keep from meeting her. This fear of Nancy was alone enough to determine him
                        to get away to Texas by the next New Orleans boat. But at the same time, he
                        dreaded an open break with his father: He knew the old man's love of
                        mastery, and he did not know how far it might carry him. He no longer
                        insisted that he was going, whether or no. The senior was lulled into
                        security by his silence, believing that the enemy wavered, and that he
                        should yet carry the day. And as days went by, with no visible preparations
                        for his son's departure, the colonel thought that he was gaining time; and,
                        since the others did not speak of it, he treated the matter as though it
                        were tacitly settled as he wished.
                    But Mark had secretly sold his horse, had sent word by a friend to the
                        captain of the steamboat "Duke of Orleans," then lying at Cincinnati, asking
                        him to stop at Luzerne to take him and his wife aboard. Roxy's preparations
                        were all made, but she did not like the secrecy which Mark enjoined. She
                        could not bear to do right as though she were doing wrong.
                    As the time approached for him to depart, Mark felt that the storm would be
                        all the more severe when it did  burst upon
                        him, and that he could not much longer keep the matter a secret, for all the
                        brethren in the church wanted to know about it, and they would wish to hold
                        a farewell meeting on the coming Sunday. But he was relieved of all debate
                        on the way in which he should communicate the matter to his father, by the
                        accident that Lathers heard of the sale of his horse, and forthwith
                        sauntered into Colonel Bonamy's office.
                    "Is Mark reelly goin', Colonel?" he began.
                    "Do you think he is, yourself?" retorted the old man, with a sudden suspicion
                        that Lathers knew more than he did.
                    "I don' know what to think," said the sheriff. "Sometimes it seems like as ef
                        he wuz, and then ag'in more like as ef he wuzn't."
                    "I'd a little rather he'd stay, Major, but I suppose he'll go," said Bonamy,
                        affecting indifference.
                    "Did you know he'd sold his hoss and saddle?"
                    This was a thunder-clap to the colonel, but he did not let Lathers see the
                        inward start it gave him.
                    "I believe he has sold several things. He didn't consult me, and I haven't
                        asked who bought it."
                    "Done kind o' on the sly, wuzn't it?"
                    "He's a fool if he does things on the sly from me. He'll have to depend on me
                        when he gets out there."
                    Well, I heerd Ben Plunkett sayin' that he'd bought, but wuzn't to say
                        anything about it tell the time come. An' I thought a father ought to know
                        what's going on in his own family."
                    "Oh, well, I know pretty well, Major, how the land lies. If they will be
                        fools, let 'em. It's no lookout of mine."
                    Lathers left the office, but he was gratified to observe  from the next street-corner, on which he had taken up a stand
                        of observation, that the colonel went home soon afterward.
                    "Mark 'll ketch it now," he chuckled, all his innate love of mischief being
                        tickled by the consciousness of having exploded a mine at a safe distance
                        from himself.
                    Colonel Bonamy was bitterly disappointed at having all his ambitious hopes of
                        Mark overturned, and doubly chagrined that the whole village had now guessed
                        out his motive in consenting to Mark's wedding Tom Adams's daughter. In
                        conceding so much, and in employing all his art to defeat Nancy Kirtley, he
                        had only rendered his own humiliation the mere complete.
                    He found Mark and Roxy in their own room, in the midst of preparations for
                        going, and poured upon them, for half an hour, the fiercest and most
                        sarcastic things he could say, all uttered in his irritating, whining drawl.
                        Mark was a coward, the colonel snarled. He had meant, if they must go, to keep his promise. But a man guilty of sneaking
                        disobedience and ingratitude toward his father, wasn't fit to be a
                        missionary. He would corrupt the people of Texas. It was in vain that Roxy
                        tried to take the blame upon herself; the colonel's aristocratic gallantry
                        did not forsake him for a -ent. He gently waved her
                        aside, and continued to berate Mark; for indeed he knew well that a wife
                        would rather be scolded than have her husband denounced. Mark did not
                        receive this lecture in the meekest way. Even Roxy could not restrain him,
                        and he replied with a vehemence that brought both the sisters into the
                        room.
                    Seeing that he prevailed nothing, and having wrought himself into a passion
                        that put diplomacy out-of-doors, Colonel Bonamy, who gave himself credit for
                        his dignified 
                        
                         forbearance in not speaking a rude word to
                        his daughter-in-law, did not mind saying wordsï¿½sometimes with keener edge
                        for her than a personal insult would have had.
                    "It was of much use that I interfered to keep that Kirtley girl from giving
                        you trouble," he said to Mark. "She would have stopped your wedding if I had
                        let her. Didn't she stand out behind the garden and storm at you and Roxy by
                        the hour on the night of the infare, and didn't it take both "Whittaker and
                        myself to quiet her?"
                    Mark turned pale at this, but extreme anger generally puts on an appearance
                        of calmness.
                    "You know there is no truth in what she says, and yet you throw out
                        innuendoes here in the presence of my wife and my sisters. We will leave
                        your house right off, sir, and never sleep here again."
                    But here Janet caught hold of Mark, and then of her father, and then of Roxy,
                        and begged them not to part in that way. She carried her tears and sobs
                        round, and they were effectual. For, if a man will not listen to a crying
                        woman's entreaty out of pity, he may yet yield because he hates a scene.
                        See, for example, the story of the unjust judge.
                    "Mark's going away forever," pleaded the tenderhearted Janet. "Now, don't
                        send him off this way. Don't go to-night, Mark. Please, Roxy, don't you let
                        him go." And then she stopped and sobbed on Roxy's neck, and Roxy began to
                        feel that her burden was more than she could bear. She had strengthened
                        herself against poverty and barbarism; but what are poverty and barbarism to
                        scolding men and crying women?
                    "I didn't send him," said the old man. "It's only his way of treating his
                        father." Then, softening a little, he  said:
                        "Come, Mark, don't let's quarrel any more. Of course I know the Kirtley
                        story is all a lie. I oughtn't to have mentioned it, but you are so
                        stubborn. Don't leave the house; it'll make trouble."
                    Without waiting for a reply, Colonel Bonamy went out, reflecting, with
                        considerable satisfaction, that, go where she would, Roxy would be nettled
                        by thoughts of Nancy Kirtley, and that the knowledge that Whittaker had
                        heard Nancy's story, would multiply the trouble. The more he meditated on
                        it, the more did he think his allusion to the Kirtley matter a
                        master-stroke. "She'll be sorry she ever crossed me," he said.
                    Still, he could not but see that he had lost ground by his passion. He had
                        set all his son's pride and anger in favor of going, and he had given the
                        stubborn Roxy new motives for seeking a mission in Texas without delay.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII.
                    THE OVERTHROW OF BOTH.
                    THE oldest son of the Bonamy family, the namesake of the
                        father, had "turned out bad," as the village phrase ran. He was vicious from
                        the beginning. Much money and many beech switches were wasted in vain
                        attempts to beat the Latin paradigms into him against his inclination. He
                        was sent away to boarding-school after a while, but the education he got
                        there only made matters worse. When at last Colonel Bonamy stopped giving
                        him money in order to throw him on his own resources, he preferred to live
                        on other people's resources, and so became a gambler, in New Orleans, the
                        Sodom of that day; after shooting a fellow-blackleg in an affray he sailed
                        thence to Brazil and was never afterward heard from. The second son, a lad
                        of promise, died in childhood. It would be hardly fair to say that all the
                        old man's affection had centered itself in Mark. All his family pride and
                        fierce ambition were concentrated in the boy. He rejoiced to discover in him
                        as he grew up a fine force and fire in declamation, which was lacking in
                        himself. He was sure that with his own knowledge of law and his shrewd
                        "management" he could, by the help of Mark's eloquent delivery, maintain his
                        ascendency at the bar to the last, and bequeath to his son the property and
                        the distinction of the family. This was his whole dream of immortality. He
                        had looked on Mark's Whiggery as rather a good thingï¿½both parties would be
                             represented in the firm. He was rather
                        glad of his sudden religious turn for the reason assigned in Watts's hymn,
                        that it would save him "from a thousand snares, to mind religion young."
                        When he got old he could take care of himself. At present Colonel Bonamy
                        thought it a good thing in that it would check a tendency to dissipation
                        that had given him uneasiness. He had thought favorably of Roxy in turn as
                        an antidote to the Texan fever, and as one likely to make an economical
                        wife, and restrain all wrong tendencies in her husband. For Colonel Bonamy
                        hated all sin that interfered with success and no other. But now this Texas
                        fool's-errand was a rock likely to wreck all his hopes and send him into old
                        age disappointed and defeated.
                    Is it any wonder that during the last week before the coming of the "Duke of
                        Orleans," every sort of persuasion, scolding, contention, persistent
                        worrying and continual badgering were put in force against the young people,
                        to weary them out of their purpose? Offers of property, persuasions by Mrs.
                        Hanks, coaxings by Janet, remonstranoes by Mr. Adams, were brought to the
                        front through the scheming of the colonel. But in vain. Roxy would not
                        disobey the heavenly voice for any entreaty; and Mark also good-naturedly
                        credited himself with much martyr-like endurance. He had gone too far to
                        yield now. Though, indeed, lying lazily there in the quiet coolness of the
                        old brick house, listening to the rustle of the poplar leaves, hearing the
                        old long clock ticking slowly its sixty beats a minute, soothed by the
                        "chook, chook!" of the redbird under the window, and the distant music of
                        the blue-bird on the fence-stakes, flattered by the loving devotion of the
                        most superb woman he had ever known, there were times when he wished that he
                        and Roxy might give over  the hardness of
                        Texas and remain in the comfort and dignity that surrounded them. He might
                        even have proposed the matter tentatively to Roxy had it not been for a fear
                        of annoyance from Nancy Kirtley. He was young and active and at times
                        zealous. Toil and hardship he could endure, but annoyance, entanglement and
                        perplexity were grievous to him.
                    As for Roxy, she was in ever deepening trouble. Her father's scoldings and
                        persuasions disturbed, her aunt's preachment angered her. She could not look
                        at Bobo, whose education must now be arrested entirely, without the
                        bitterest regret. The poor fellow seemed to have caught some vague notion of
                        the impending trouble, from words he had heard.
                    "What will Bobo do when Roxy's gone?" she heard him repeat dejectedly, but
                        whether he fully understood a saying that he echoed in this way she could
                        not tell. Sometimes a sharp pang of doubt crossed her mind whether it were
                        her duty to leave the little gardon of Bobo's mind to cultivate an
                        unpromising patch in the great wilderness of heathendom. But then the
                        thought of soul-saving perplexed her logic as it has that of many another.
                        Bobo would go to heaven anyhow, but how about the people in Texas? Then,
                        too, there was Mark's ability, of which she more and more felt herself the
                        keeper. She must not thwart his great destiny. But in all these perplexities
                        she had to stand alone. She could not support herself on Mark; his heroic
                        resolutions leaned more and more for support upon her. She could not go to
                        Twonnet. There was no one to ask.
                    Colonel Bonamy was restrained by his conventional gallantry from scolding
                        Roxy, but no gallantry kept him from scolding at her. And no gallantry
                        checked the  innuendoes of Amanda, who held
                        Roxy a sort of intruder in the family. But Amanda heartily hoped that Mark
                        would take himself off to Texas if he wanted to go. She did not care to have
                        either him or his wife at home to interfere with her mastery of things. And,
                        indeed, the haughtiness of Amanda did not disturb Roxy so much as the
                        tearful entreaties of Janet, whom she loved now with her whole girl's heart.
                        Janet came into the place that Twonnet had occupied. She had so taken her
                        color from Roxy that she had even braved her sister's scorn in making an
                        attempt to take up the teaching of Bobo. But no patience or tact less than
                        Roxy's could effect that.
                    Along with Roxy's other troubles she found herself a prey to what seemed to
                        her a mean feeling, and this was a new and bitter experience for one
                        struggling to lead the highest and most ideal life. She was unable any more
                        to think of that dark Kirtley girl with composure. It pained her to recall
                        how lustrous were her black eyes, how magnificent her tout
                            ensemble. What truth was there behind Colonel Bonamy's hints? Had
                        Nancy Kirtley any claim on Mark? Her growing knowledge of the vain and
                        self-indulgent element in her husband's disposition did not reassure her.
                        The only feeling in her heart that rivaled her religions devotion was her
                        passionate love for Mark, and in proportion to her love was her desire to be
                        sure of her entire possession. Lurking in a dark corner of her mind into
                        which she herself was afraid and ashamed to look, was a suspicion that
                        served as a spur to her pious resolution to carry the Texas mission into
                        execution at once.
                    The farewell meeting was duly appointed to be held on the last Sunday that
                        Mark was to be in Luzerne, but on Saturday morning Haz Kirtley's dray
                        rattled up in  front of Colonel Bonamy's door.
                        The drayman called Mark out and told him that "the w'arf-master had just
                        heerd from the 'Duke.' She laid all last night at Warsaw takin' on a hundred
                        bar'ls of whisky, and would be down this evenin' about four o'clock."
                    So the farewell meeting must be given up. Haz was to call for the boxes and
                        trunks at two o'clock that afternoon.
                    As for Nancy, she was not capable of forming any plan for detaining Mark
                        except that of trying to regain her influence over him, and this seemed
                        impossible since he steadily avoided meeting her, and she was dreadfully
                        afraid on her part of a collision with the Colonel. But when at last she
                        heard that Mark was about going she determined at least to gratify the
                        resentment of wounded vanity. She put the Testament and the watch-seal in
                        her pocket and took her stand on the wharf-boat at noon. When all the
                        curiosity-seekers and all the church members should stand around to tell
                        Brother Bonamy good-bye, she would make her speech, exhibit her trophies and
                        thus "send that hateful Adams girl away with the biggest kind of a
                        bumble-bee in her bonnet." And so for hours she paced up and down the wharf
                        waiting for the arrival of the "Duke of Orleans."
                    The persistent Colonel Bonamy had not shown his usual self-control in his
                        present defeat. Perhaps this was because it was the most notable and
                        exasperating overthrow he had known; perhaps some oncoming nervous
                        weaknessï¿½some gradual giving way of brain textureï¿½in a man of sixty,
                        whose life had been one of continual strain and excitement, had something to
                        do with it. At any rate he now lost all self-restraint; and, what was the
                        more remarkable, even something of his sense of conventional propriety. He
                        stormed, and at last raved, at both Mark and Roxy.
                    
                    "Never expect me to help you. Never expect me to write to you. Never come
                        back here again. I will not have anything to do with you. You are no son of
                        mine. I renounce you, now and forever!"
                    "Oh, please, sir," said Roxy, "please don't feel that way. We are only trying
                        to do our duty. Mark loves you, and I love you. Please forgive us for giving
                        you soï¿½"
                    "Begone!" She had taken hold of his arm in her earnestness, and he now shook
                        of her hand as though it were a snake. For either because there was a
                        possibility of feeling on his part, or because there was not, Colonel Bonamy
                        could not endure to have any appeal made to his emotions. "Begone! I don't
                        want to see or hear of you again. Get out of the house at once!"
                    It was already time to go. Mr. Adams stood gloomily on the wharf-boat,
                        waiting to see his Iphigenia sacrificed. He would not go to Bonamy's,
                        because he thought the family had a sense of condescension toward him. Mrs.
                        Hanks had taken Bobo to the river to see Roxy leave. Jemima was there. So
                        was Twonnet, with her little brothers and sisters; Adolphe was throwing
                        sticks into the water, in order to hear Bobo chuckle at seeing these tiny
                        rafts float away on the broad current. There was an ever increasing crowd on
                        the wharf to see Mark leave. Mr. Dale, the Methodist preacher, and the chief
                        brethren were there; and Lathers stood alongside the melancholy and
                        abstracted Mr. Whittaker, explaining to that gentleman the good Presbyterian
                        influences under which he had been reared, and how his mother had raised him
                        in the nursery and admonition of the Lord, like Mary Ann, the mother of
                        Moses, and the like, you know. And ever as the crowd increased the Rocky
                        Fork beauty, with that precious bumble-bee in her head which she meant to
                        put in Roxy's bonnet when the  time came,
                        slunk away down one of the aisles between a row of bales of hay, where, half
                        hidden in the obscurity, she could keep a good watch for the arrival of Mark
                        and his wife. And several people in the crowd busied themselves with
                        suggesting that Colonel Bonamy would not come to the w'arf. Grandma Tartrum
                        had been seized that very day with an attack of "the rheumatics," and had to
                        deny herself the fun of seeing the departure. But she had sent a faithful
                        reporter in the person of her little grandson, Zeb, whose natural gift for
                        eavesdropping and nosing had been much sharpened by judicious training.
                    The last struggle almost overcame even Roxy's constancy. What right had a son
                        to tear himself away from an old father? It was a hard law that a man must
                        hate father and mother for the Lord's sake. It was to her like performing an
                        amputation. All her strength was gone, and there was yet the awful parting
                        from her own father, and the farewell forever to Bobo and to Twonnet, in
                        store for her. She hesitated. Mark was not so much affected; he was
                        accustomed to suspect an ulterior aim in all that his father did, and he
                        doubted the reality of his anger. It was but for a moment that the heart of
                        Roxy faltered; then the duty of leaving all for the kingdom of heaven's
                        sake, the Macedonian cry of lost souls in the wilderness, the loyalty to her
                        Christ-service, all came back to fortify her resolution. Meantime Colonel
                        Bonamy, having given rein to his passion, could not or would not restrain
                        himself, but raved like a man demented.
                    "Tell me good-bye, won't you?" pleaded Roxy, going up to him at the very last
                        moment, with the assurance of one who was born to exert an influence on
                        people.
                    "I will not! Out with you!" cried Colonel Bonamy in a hoarse staccato.
                    
                    Bidding Amanda and Janet farewell, Roxy turned to Mark, who had become calmer
                        as his father grew more stormy. Mark's intellect always grew clearer and his
                        will more direct in a time of trial. With perfect quietness he took leave of
                        his sisters and started out the door, never so much as looking at his
                        father. The carriage had been ordered back to the stable by the wrathful
                        colonel, and there was nothing now for the young people but to walk to the
                        landing.
                    "Good-bye, father Bonamy," said Roxy, turning her head regretfully toward him
                        as she reached the door.
                    The old man turned. Whether he meant to speak kindly or fiercely Roxy could
                        not tell. He only said "Roxy!" and came toward her. Mark, knowing his
                        father's pertinacity, trembled inwardly, with a fear of some new form of
                        attack. Would the old man say more about that Kirtley matter? But as he held
                        out his hand to Roxy, he reeled. Mark ran toward him too late. He fell at
                        full length upon the floor, unconscious. Mark lifted him to the bed, and
                        Roxy stood over him, with a remorseful feeling that she had somehow struck
                        him down herself.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII.
                    THE "DUKE OF ORLEANS."
                    AT a little before four o'clock the "Duke of Orleans" came
                        around the head of the island. She was one of the typical "lower country"
                        boats of that day. The mail boats were built light of draught, and, for that
                        time, swift of speed; the stern-wheelers and the insignificant, oldfashioned
                        "chicken-thieves" were still lighter. But the lower country boat was heavy
                        in build, deep in draught, slow in the revolution of her wheels; with a
                        sturdy, bulldog look when seen in front, and an elephantine solemnity of
                        motion when viewed at broadside, the wheels seeming to pause at each
                        semi-revolution. The lower country boat of that dafied all time-tables. She
                        started when ever she was ready, and she stopped as often and as long as she
                        found occasion. The arrival of a New Orleans boat at the wharf of one of the
                        river towns at this time of the year was a great event. It was only in an
                        exceptional season that there was water enough in the channel for such craft
                        above the falls of the Ohio in October.
                    Now that the boat had actually come around the island, the fact that Mark and
                        Roxy were not anywhere yet to be seen was a great disappointment to people
                        on the wharf. They were, perhaps, to be cheated out of their spectacle; they
                        would not see Roxy's tears, nor any of the other entertaining things they
                        had a right to expect. Mr. Adams  moved
                        testily to and fro, fearing he knew not what. Twonnet strained her eyes up
                        Ferry street in vain; Granny Tartrum's boy, Zeb, was exceedingly active in
                        the effort to find out what it all stood for; and the wharf-master's little
                        brown dog dashed about in a way that, showed how keenly he also felt that a
                        crisis had come, and that something ought to be done. The "Duke" approached
                        with majestic tardiness, her captain ringing the great, bell on the
                        hurricane deck in a slow and imperious fashion. He rang five great taps,
                        which were echoed faintly in the distant hills. If he had stopped at three,
                        it would have signified that he intended only to send out the yawl for his
                        passengers; but the five solemn tolls were the sign of a landing. Then the
                        boat "rounded to,"ï¿½brought her bow round so as to point her head upward
                        against the stream. The line was thrown out to the wharf-boat and caught by
                        the wharf-master, who, with Haz Kirtley's help, quickly took a turn with it
                        round the check-post. This important operation was vigilantly superintended
                        by the little brown dog, who, with tail in the air, ran around the
                        check-post till the line was made fast, and then dashed away to attend to
                        the running out of the "walk-plank."
                    Here was the boat and here the baggage; but the passengers were not. But now
                        came galloping down the street an old negro, appendage from time immemorial
                        of the Bonamy family, who rode his plow-horse to a most unwonted speed as he
                        sat with legs projecting forward and outward, holding to the reins of his
                        bridle with one hand, while he gripped the mane with the other to keep
                        himself from being thrown by the awkward plunges of the stiff old animal.
                        This spectacle set all the small boys laughing at Uncle Bob, and the
                        attention of the crowd was divided between the negro and the steamboat.
                        Rein-  ing his horse in the very edge of the
                        river, the old man called out:
                    "I say, dah! Is de doctah on boa'd dah?"
                    The doctor was soon brought to the front of the crowd on the wharf-boat.
                    "I say, dah? Doctah! de cunnel's done had a stroke, or sumpin. Tumbled right
                        down in middle ob de flo'. Git on heah and go quick. Be mighty spry now, I
                        say, else ye won't see no cunnel when ye git dah. He done be dead afo' ye
                        git dah."
                    The doctor took the negro's place, and the horse was soon charging back again
                        through the town, while the steamboat captain with reluctance pulled in his
                        line and left without his passengers. The crowd felt that a serious illness
                        on the part of Colonel Bonamy repaid them but poorly for their
                        disappointment; but they fell at once to making the most of it, by disputing
                        whether it was Colonel Bonamy who had been struck by Mark, or Mark who had
                        been struck by apoplexy. Granny Tartrum's little boy ran home breathless to
                        tell about it; and, rheumatics or no rheumatics, the old lady felt herself
                        called upon to hobble into the street and assail the passer-by with all
                        sorts of questions about the case. Who struck whom? What was it? Was he
                        likely to live?
                    As the facts came to be known with clearness, some folks thought it a sin and
                        a shame for a son to disobey his father, and be the death of him in that
                        way. Pretty Christian he was, wasn't he, to be sure, now, for certain.
                    Some of the more lugubrious were sure that it was a judgment. Wasn't Uzzah
                        slain for putting his hand upon the ark of God? Didn't Ananias and Sapphira
                        die for lying? Colonel Bonamy'd learn not to oppose God, and it was  good for him, and served him right besides,
                        and was no more than he deserved, over and above.
                    Nancy went home, carrying the bumble-bee with her, but vowing she'd pay'em
                        up. She somehow looked upon Colonel Bonamy's stroke as one of the means
                        taken to defeat her by the family. But she'd pay 'em up, yet. Give her half
                        a chance, and she'd git Mark away from that Adams girl. Roxy Adams wasn't no
                        great shakes, that all the town should turn out to see her off, now. It
                        might better have been herself than Roxy. She wouldn't have minded going to
                        Texas with Mark.
                    And Whittaker, who had observed Nancy's curious behavior on the wharf-boat,
                        went home, putting this and that together, troubling himself with
                        forebodings about Roxy's future, and with griefs about his own
                        disappointment, and with questionings whether he had done quite right or
                        not. He, at least, had a bumble-bee in his head, for he walked the floor of
                        the upper porch half the night.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIV.
                    A MONITOR IN MASK.
                    THE next day after the passage of the "Duke of Orleans"
                        being Sunday, Mother Tartrum contrived to keep the most conflicting rumors
                        a-going in regard to the condition of Colonel Bonamy. She stood at the gate
                        all day, hailing the negro messenger, the doctor going, the doctor
                        returning, and everybody else, in turn, hearing where they had information,
                        or thought they had, and telling her latest, where they had none.
                    On Monday morning Whittaker rose, after a sleepless night, and thought it his
                        duty to call at Colonel Bonamy's and inquire after his health. If,
                        perchance, he were de- of apoplexy, the minister could
                        condole with the fa- and if he were better, he might
                        sympathize with patient. Anyhow, he would have a chance to speak Mark about
                        his plans of life, and he might happ- meetï¿½say Amanda,
                        or Janet, orï¿½or well, yes, b- was not to be desired at
                        all; though he might strange accident, see Roxy herself. He did not himself
                        that the dull agony that had kept him awa- livelong
                        night, promised to be quieted a little, if that could but look into the face
                        of Roxy, and hear her voice.
                    It was Roxy whom he met at the door, and who was startled at the wan look of
                        his face. She asked him to sit on the vine-covered front porch, and she told
                        him, in answer to his inquiries, that Colonel Bonamy was lying  quietly asleep in his room at the right; that
                        he had had a stroke of paralysis from apoplexy; that his right side was
                        quite powerless, but they hoped he would recover. She was dressed in a fresh
                        calico, and her exertions for the sick man had brought back a little of the
                        wonted look of peace, benevolence, and hopefulness to her face. When she
                        could act in the direction natural to her, she was happyï¿½when her
                        energetic spirit was thwarted, it became an energetic temper; and the
                        conflict between her irritability and her conscience produced the most
                        morbid fitfulness of disposition. But now she could act with certainty and
                        in straight lines again.
                    "You will not go to Texas yet?" said Mr. Whittaker.
                    "We do not know anything about the future. Our duty is very plain for the
                        present." And Roxy put an emphasis on the last words that expressed her
                        content at present release from the complexities of her life since her
                            arriage-.
                    'Good morning, Mr. Whittaker," said Janet. "Papa ake- now,
                        and we can't understand what he wants., you'll have to come. He says he
                        wants 'Roly,' or thing of the sort."
                    
                        -h a hasty "excuse me," and a "good morning,"
                            appeared- through the hall into the room of the
                        pappy!" said Janet, adhering to the older of the country in saying "pappy,"
                        "he is unable peak plain, and he forgets the names of things. But Roxy
                        guesses what he wants, and he wont have anybody about him but her. I suppose
                        he meant her when he aid 'Roly' just now. He calls me 'Jim.' But the loctor
                        thinks he'll get well. If he does, it will be from Roxy's nursing."
                    
                    Mr. Whittaker rose to depart, but just then Mark came out, and the two walked
                        down between the Lombardies together. They were a fair
                        contrastï¿½Whittaker's straight form, rather light complexion, studious and
                        scrupulous look, with Mark's well-nourished figure, waving black hair, and
                        face that betokened a dangerous love of ease and pleasure. He told Whittaker
                        that this stroke of his father's would perhaps do away entirely with the
                        project of going to Texas. He would have to take charge of his father's
                        business until his recovery.
                    "You will probably enter the ministry here in Indiana then?" said
                        Whittaker.
                    "I don't know what I shall do."
                    Whittaker thought he saw that Mark's plans were already turning to other
                        things. For, indeed, Mark felt that now he was relieved from any committal
                        to the public or to Roxy in the matter of ministerial work, he would rather
                        enter upon the tempting field of activity opened up by the passing into his
                        hands of his father's business.
                    The sight of Roxy had been a pleasure to Whittaker, but five minutes in the
                        sunshine only makes a coal-pit the blacker. He went home, thinking that,
                        after all, paralysis of the body was better than his own paralysis of heart
                        and purpose. But to shake off his lethargy was a difficult thing. His
                        congregation was small, and did not occupy his time. His efforts at study
                        were vague and vain. He had been fond of dabbling in language-study, but
                        even his love of languages had died within him, and he turned the leaves of
                        his dictionaries and thought of Roxy, and dreamed of might-have-beens
                        without number.
                    On the afternoon of this same day, he sat with his head  leaning out of the window. There was a copy of Bossuet's
                        "Oraisons Funï¿½bres" by his side, but even that funeste
                        reading could not attract his attention. He had too real a sense of the fact
                        that life was indeed nï¿½ant, nï¿½ant, to care for
                        Bossuet's pompous parade of its magnificent nothingness. For Bossuet manages
                        to make nothingness seem to be something grand and substantialï¿½even royal.
                        One would be willing to be a king, for the sake of feeling this sublime
                        nothingness and vanity that he describes so picturesquely.
                    Whittaker was leaning thus out of the window, and dreamily gazing at the pale
                        green sycamores that will grow nowhere but fast by the rivers of waters,
                        when there lighted on his head, with a sudden blow, a paper ball. He
                        started, looked upward. There was nothing to be seen but the garret window
                        in the gable above. But he had hardly looked away before another ball
                        descended upon him. He knew very well what sprite had thrown them. He looked
                        away again, this time with a smile; then turning his eyes upward, he caught
                        the third paper missile full on his nose, and got sight of the mischieffull
                        face of Twonnet, just as it was disappearing, with a sharp little cry of
                        "Oh!" at seeing where the ball had struck.
                    "You are caught," he said, and then the blushing face re-appeared, looking
                        exceedingly sweet, draped as it was by long curls hanging forward as she
                        leaned out of the window, like Dante Rossetti's "Blessed Demozel" looking
                        out of heaven.
                    "I wouldn't have done it," she said, "but you look so like a funeral to-day.
                        I don't like to see you that way."
                    "How can I help it, Twonnet?"
                    
                    Her face was serious for a moment. Then she laughed.
                    "To think that you would ask advice of such a giddy rattle-pate as me.
                        Everybody knows that I'm only a mischievous little fool with a shallow head,
                        and besides I'm only a child, as you know. "See here!" She held a doll out
                        of the window. "I've never quite given up doll-babies yet. I keep this old
                        thing hid away in this end of the garret where nobody else ever comes, and I
                        slip up here sometimes and play with it till I feel like a goose, and then I
                        go down-stairs and try to be a woman. I wish I had sense enough and I would
                        give you some advice.
                    "You've got more sense than you pretend to have. It might have been better
                        for two or three people if I'd followed your advice and not Highbury's,
                        before. If you wont hit me with any more paper balls I'd listen to anything
                        you say. Some things are revealed toï¿½little children."
                    "There, you call me a babe! That's worse than all. Now the advice I have to
                        give is serious and I'm not ready yet. You ought to hear it from some one
                        older than I am." And she withdrew her head.
                    Whittaker wondered what she meant. Was she waiting to frame into words what
                        she had to say? Or, was she trying to get courage to say what she thought?
                        Or, was she making game of him as she had of Highbury?
                    In a minute there appeared at the garret window the face of an old woman in
                        frilled white cap and spectacles and a red neckerchief. The face seemed
                        wrinkled and the voice was quivering and cracked. The words were uttered
                        slowly and solemnly and with a pronunciation a little broken with a French
                        accent.
                    "You must not think about her now. It is very bad. It will
                        do harm to everybody. Get to work and  put far
                        away these evil thoughts and wishes that can do no good. She is his and you
                            must not think about her."
                    The head had disappeared before Whittaker could realize that it was but
                        Twonnet in masquerade. He felt vexed that she had guessed the secret of his
                        thoughts. Then he was lost in wonder at the keen penetration and deep
                        seriousness hidden under this volatile exterior. And he was annoyed that she
                        had ventured to rebuke him, a minister, and to imply that he was likely to
                        go wrong. Then he honestly tried to see the truth of what she said. At any
                        rate he resolved to think no more of Roxy.
                    But when the human mind gets down hub-deep into a rut of thinking, it is hard
                        to lift it out. He could not study, or walk, or talk, without this numb
                        paralysis of wishing and thinking creeping over him. It was in vain that he
                        studied the tables of Italian definitions hung about his room. He could not
                        remember them. He preferred reading Petrarch's sonnets to Lady Laura, which
                        he had forbidden himself. This struggle went on for two days. Twonnet did
                        not take any notice of it. She laughed and sang French rondeaux and English songs, and gamboled with the children, and
                        chatted in superficial fashion with Mr. Whittaker, and scolded at things
                        about the house that went wrong, until he was more than ever puzzled by this
                        doubleness. He could not explain it, and he contented himself with calling
                        her in his thoughts "that witch of a girl." He would have been yet more
                        perplexed had he known that after her merriest laughter and her wildest
                        frolics with the children, and her most bubbling and provoking banter, she
                        would now and then elude the little sister "Teet" in some dark corner and
                        escape to the garret where she could have a good  cry under the rafters. Then she would take up the old doll and
                        caress it, saying, as the tears slowly dropped upon it:
                    "Nobody cares for me. Everybody loves Roxy because she is
                        good. But nobody loves Twonnetï¿½poor, wild, foolish, empty-headed Twonnet.
                        Nobody loves me but you, old dolly."
                    And all this in the teeth and eyes of the fact that Dan Barlow, the newly
                        arrived young lawyer, had walked home with her from church the Sunday
                        evening before, and that more than one other would have offered her company
                        at any time if there had not been a sly twinkle in her eyes that made them
                        afraid of Twonnet's ridicule. But she cried in this inconsistent fashion and
                        declared that nobody loved her. And five minutes after she would be dashing
                        about the house, broom in hand, singing in a wild, reckless, cat-bird-like
                        cheerfulness:
                    
                        "Every lassie has her laddie,
                        Ne'er a ane hae I."
                    
                    But beneath all this mirth and banter of the girl, Whittaker knew now that
                        there lay the deep seriousness of the woman. How deep and serious her nature
                        might be he could not tell. Conscience, shrewdness, courageï¿½these he had
                        seen. What else was there? At any rate he knew that Twonnet was expecting
                        something of him. The vivacious, incomprehensible Swiss prattler had become
                        a monitor to the grave minister, all the more efficient that she said no
                        more than enough. So it came to pass that the soul of the man awoke and said
                        to himself: "Whittaker, you are bad. You are thinking and dreaming about
                        another man's wife and what might have been. 
                        This is a good way to be worthless or wicked. You must get to work."
                    And after a good lecture to himself he said to Twonnet:
                    "I am going to start a school."
                    "That's good; I will go. But I am a dull scholar. I hate arithmetic and all
                        my teachers hate me."
                    That was all the response he got.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXV.
                    BACKSLIDINGS.
                    As the days grew shorter and the night frosts began to give tone to the
                        atmosphere, Colonel Bonamy gradually improved in strength under the care of
                        Roxy. He was very lame and walked with difficulty, leaning on the arm of his
                        daughter-in-law. They would go down between the Lombardy poplars, through
                        the front gate, across the open commons to the river-bank, where he would
                        stare awhile in vacant fashion on the broad water and then petulantly demand
                        to be taken back to the house. His faculties were evidently weakened; when
                        he wanted his hat he would demand his boots, and he called his watch his
                        knife. Nouns, proper and common, were hopelessly mixed in his mind; he
                        almost never called anything by the right name, though he seemed generally
                        to keep some sort of hold of the initial sounds. By some kind of quick
                        sympathy Roxy was able to guess at his meaning and he always preferred to
                        have her with him.
                    Amanda held toward her sister-in-law an air of patronizing toleration.
                        Colonel Bonamy liked Roxy, in a selfish way, as the best nurse of all; but
                        he could not endure that she should give Bobo a part of her kindness. So for
                        the most part she taught the lad in another room for a short half-hour each
                        day, getting scolded by her father-in-law on her return.
                    "Now, Roly, I know what you've been doing," he would  say, with a querulous paralytic lisp. "You've been trying to
                        teach little Bubble Ham. But you can't teach him. He wont learn a shingle
                        liver. No blubbers in his head. Give me a goggle of fresh wash; I'm thirsty.
                        Don't go away again."
                    But Roxy's chief trouble was not Amanda nor the colonel, but Mark. For,
                        sisters-in-law and fathers-in-law and mothers-in-law, despite all stale
                        jokes about them, chiefly trouble a body as the ailments of somebody else
                        doï¿½through the sympathies. Real troubles are nearer of kin. More and more
                        Roxy saw Mark drifting utterly away from all the missionary enthusiasms that
                        gave significance to life in her eyes. At first this showed itself only in a
                        total absorption in the large law business which had suddenly fallen into
                        his hands. He knew that the eyes of court, clients and lawyers were on him,
                        questioning whether he would or could take his father's place, should the
                        senior remain disabled. He knew that the public was wondering whether he or
                        the energetic and able Dan Barlow, who had lately come down from the eastern
                        end of the county, would lead the bar. The pursuits in which he now engaged
                        were more congenial to his nature than preaching, and he took them up again
                        with eagerness. Law business gave a delightful play to his active mental
                        faculties; the conflict of the court-room stirred his combativeness, and
                        victory pleased his ambitions vanity.
                    He threw himself with fiery impetuosity into the half-prepared cases of his
                        father, and carried them through to success; he more than held his own
                        against young Barlow, and new business began to come to him freely. He was
                        not a man to be insensible to this sudden opening of a prospect of wealth
                        and reputation.
                    Luther might not have been an iconoclast if he had not  begun by being a monk; and Mark might have reached an average
                        piety, if he had not striven for more. He had been held by external
                        influences at a pitch of self-sacrifice foreign to his temper, and the
                        reaction was rapid and dangerous. In three weeks after the Texas mission was
                        given up, Roxy could see that all thinking and talking about religious
                        matters grew irksome to him. He declined all requests to preach on the
                        ground that he was overworked, and it was evident that even his license to
                        preach would soon become hateful.
                    Those who had before admired his zeal lamented his backsliding. The severe
                        ordeal of the Methodist confessional he shrunk from. He might have talked
                        platitudes in class-meeting; but hypocrisy of that sort he did not like, and
                        so he stayed away, consulting his own comfort in this, as he did in
                        everything. When he went to church he did not sit any more among the great
                        lights in the amen corner, but drifted gradually back until he found a seat
                        aft the box-stove, which held a central place in the church, and was a sort
                        of landmark dividing the sheep from the goats. On many Sundays he was so
                        tired that he would not go to church at all; he wanted to rest and keep his
                        father company in the absence of Roxy. But, for the most part on such
                        occasions, he walked up and down in the warmish winter sunshine, and in
                        colder weather watched the grinding cakes of floating ice in the river,
                        while he planned his business. When Roxy was well out of sight, he even
                        wrote a little now and then on unfinished pleadings. The thoughtful Amanda
                        generally contrived to let Roxy know that Mark had been writing,ï¿½such
                        interest do we take in another's happiness.
                    Roxy was surprised at finding that marriage had not increased, but lessened
                        her influence over Mark. A wife  is something
                        so different from a sweetheart! There is no poetic halo about a wife; she is
                        one of the commonest of commonplaces, like one of those every-day forces of
                        nature to which one submits when one pleases or when one must, but which one
                        never scruples to evade when one wishes to and can! The interest of a
                        sweetheart in your welfare is something flattering; your wife's interest is
                        a matter of course,ï¿½an interest e.c officio. It is an
                        act of the highest grace to yield to the entrety of a sweetheart; the
                        beseeching of a wife seems more like a behest; it is to be resisted,
                        according to the maxim that vigilance is the lowest market price of
                        liberty.
                    Mark respected Roxy's enthusiasm. But he was tired of the strain on his easy
                        disposition. He could not live at a moral concert-pitch, and every attempt
                        to bring him back to the old way of feeling and thinking only irritated him,
                        and deepened his resolution to brook no further restraint. He was not sure
                        that he did not owe himself certain compensations for what he had suffered
                        in the past.
                    The prospect of his soon inheriting his father's property had increased his
                        importance in the town, and the state of being important is not disagreeable
                        to the self-love of any man. Mark's old visions of political ascendency
                        again dominated over him, and he bent all his energies to satisfy his
                        ambition. He was young, and full of vigorous life, rich, as the country
                        went,ï¿½popular, and with a great capacity for enjoyment. It is easy for
                        such a man not to be religious, it is hard for such a man to be religious
                        after the fashion of thirty years ago.
                    To add to the embarrassment of Roxy's situation, her sensitive father would
                        not cross the Bonamy threshold, and it was not often that she could get away
                        to see him, and  then it was only to take a
                        scolding for her folly in "wearing herself out" with taking care of Colonel
                        Bonamy, and teaching Bobo. "An imbecile and an idiot!" Adams thundered.
                    Mark was often absent, while attending to business on other parts of the
                        judicial circuit, and Roxy felt, with terror, when he returned, how far
                        away, the one from the other, they were drifting. Mark's pleasure-loving
                        disposition had revived with increased power since his long self restraint.
                        He was the leader of every party in wit and buoyant spirits, and to be
                        leader was to be happy. He was happier away from home, where he was petted
                        and admired, than he was at home, where he was under condemnation.
                    Roxy's temper did not stand the strain very well. Hers was a character noble
                        in the direction of action, and self-sacrifice for an object. But the higher
                        nobility of patient endurance of suffering, inevitable and apparently
                        useless, she had not yet learned. Against Mark's neglect of her advice, his
                        carelessness for her society, and the general disappointment and inaetivity
                        of her life, she rebelled bitterly. Only a high-spirited woman can undertake
                        such a life as Roxy proposed, and no high-mettled woman can brook neglect.
                        She had too much elevation to enjoy the only life that offered itself to
                        her. She had not yet, at least, elevation enough to accept with peace and
                        patience what she could not avoid. A young person full of energy is apt to
                        beat against the impenetrable and insurmountable walls of fate. After a
                        while, one learns that this beating wounds the one who beats and flutters,
                        but affects not a jot the wall. Then the imprisoned yields, it may be with a
                        cheerful make-the-hest-of-it, it may be with a sullen and sulky despair, it
                        may be with querulous and hopeless  longing.
                        Roxy had yet to find out that she could not beat down the wall.
                    The opportunities for Mark's ambition came to him rapidly. The death of the
                        member for Luzerne County left a vacancy in the legislature; a new election
                        was ordered, and the Whigs, seeing a chance to seize once more a
                        representation which they had not held since Mark's previous election,
                        nominated him again for the place. The canvass was short and vigorous, and
                        Mark won the election. He was just two weeks in the legislature,ï¿½a leader
                        in all the boisterous fun that members of the legislature find so necessary
                        for recreation. Until this time, Mark had so far preserved his Methodism
                        that he did not drink spirits or gamble; but when he came back, Roxy felt
                        sure that this line also had been passed.
                    A collision of some kind with the severe discipline of the old-fashioned
                        Methodism was not to be avoided by any one taking Mark's road. His
                        prominence would only serve to insure his not being overlooked. Roxy awaited
                        this inevitable collision with hope and fear. It might startle Mark into
                        some kind of recoil from the downward tendency of his present course of
                        greedy ambition and lazy self-indulugence; but it might break all the
                        restraints that held him. For the moral restraints of habit are but so many
                        lines at which one stopsï¿½with every line obliterated there are the fewer
                        checks in the way of the impetuous man. Unhappily, the first collision was
                        on one of those restrictions so often insisted upon by religionists, with a
                        stress in inverse ratio to their importance. Mark went to a circus. A man in
                        that time might be a miser, he might be dishonest in a mild way, he might be
                        censorious and a backbiter from a pious stand-point, he might put the
                        biggest apples on the top of the barrel or the little  potatoes in the bottom of the bag, and the church could not
                        reach him. Bit let him once see a man ride on two bare-back horses, and jump
                        through a hoop! That was a tangible apostasy, sure to bring ecclesiastical
                        penalties.
                    Brave old ironside forefathers! Blessings on you for chopping Charles
                        Stuart's head off, and planting Plymouth Rock! You freed us from the Middle
                        Ages; for which thanks. But you straightway bound upon us your own severe
                        prejudices, and they have come down to us by all hands. The most dominant
                        influence in this English-speaking world of who to-day, is not that of
                        Shakspere, but of the men who hated him and his play-house. The Puritan
                        preachers, the brave cobblers and tinkers, whom the seventeenth century
                        stuck in the stocks and prison-houses, and the fervent Wesleyan village
                        blacksmiths and Yorkshire farmers of the eighteenth century are yet masters
                        of the nineteenth. To this day we take our most innocent amusements in a
                        guilty and apologetic fashion, bowing to the venerable prejudice, and
                        saying: "By your leave, sir."
                    Mark was called before the church, with other like offenders. His pride was
                        wounded, and he would fain have thrown up his membership, but that he could
                        not quite resist the entreaties of Roxy. As it was, he surrendered his
                        license to preach, and expressed his sorrow that he had offended, and
                        solemnly promised not to go to a circus again; not a hard promise,
                        surely.
                    But though Mark had apologized, he was now entirely estranged from the
                        influences of the church. For discipline may save the credit of the church,
                        at the expense of destroying the offender. It seems never to have occurred
                        to people that it is sometimes the business of a church to suffer, the just
                        for the unjust.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVI.
                    AN IMPROPER FRACTION.
                    IT was in October that Whittaker took his resolution to
                        start a school. He got consent of Mr. Highbury and the other trustees to use
                        the church. With a true Yankee ingenuity, he hinged a writing shelf to the
                        back of each pew, so that it could be dropped down out of the day in church
                        time. He introduced the improved methods of teaching of that day, to the
                        great surprise of those who had never seen anything but the barbarous school
                        discipline of the beech-switch pedagogues. He could teach Latin and algebra,
                        and a schoolmaster who knew these wonderful things was indeed a Solomon. All
                        the country had heard that Whittaker knew nearly all the languages of the
                        earth except the red Indian. This last Mother Tartrum assured people he did
                        not know. She had met him on the street, and asked him point blank. And he
                        had to confess that he couldn't read and write Indian. So that exception was
                        admitted.
                    In a country town, no young woman not married, and no man not settled in
                        business for himself, is too great to go to school. Nearly all the grown-up
                        young people availed themselves of the setting up of this school to "finish'
                        their education, hitherto much broken by the intermittent nature of the old
                        district schools, which taught the three R's only so long as there was
                        school-money to be had. Twonnet was enrolled among Whittaker's scholars, and
                             Janet Bonamy, who had heretofore been
                        sent to Kentucky to school, now concluded to get a little more
                        knowledge.
                    Twonnet Lefaure was a sort of leader of the school in good natured mischief.
                        She was vivacious and witty, in talk and laughter like Tennyson's brook,
                        going on forever, but she could not get her lessons. Whittaker was surprised
                        to find that the Swiss, who in business were the abler and generally the
                        richer people of the town, who, as far as affairs went, were quick and
                        penetrating, were yet slow in taking knowledge from teacher and text-books.
                        It was in school hours that the Americans were superior.
                    Twonnet tried to study. She even cried over her "sums" in vulgar fractions,
                        but crying did no good. Common denominators and common multiples,
                        multiplications and divisions of compound and complex fractions, swam in her
                        head in a general confusion, and Kirkham's rules about nominative cases
                        governing verbs, and prepositions governing objective cases were quite
                        unintelligible.
                    "How do you reduce an improper fraction?" the teacher asked her one afternoon
                        in the arithmetic recitation.
                    She drew her mouth down, wrinkled her forehead, concentrated her wandering
                        thoughts, and replied, with a hit-or-miss desperateness: "Multiply the
                        greatest common denominator of the integer by the least common divisorï¿½no
                        multipleï¿½of the whole number and write the remainder for the numerator of
                        the mixed number."
                    "Twonnet! said the master, and he looked at her sternly, while the class
                        laughed. He could hardly bear to rebuke her. There was something so
                        inexpressibly refreshing in her mobile face and quick bright eyes. But there
                        must be no partiality. "Twonnet! You are not wanting in intelligence. You
                        can learn if you will. If  you had spent the
                        time in studying that you spent in spelling on your fingers across the room,
                        you would have been able to answer my question. Go to your seat now, and say
                        this rule after school. I shall expect you to understand it."
                    Poor Twonnet, of all things, could not help wishing to stand well with
                        Whittaker. She pouted, and went to her seat. She read over and over a page
                        of Ray's arithmetic about improper fractions, without understanding its
                        abstractions. Janet Bonamy, who sat next to her, surreptitiously gave her
                        all kinds of hints, but Janet's comments did not help the matter at all.
                        When at last the gloaming of the snowy winter's eve began to mellow the
                        light on the white walls of the church, and Whittaker had sent away the
                        school, he found himself alone with Twonnet. He was not prepared for this.
                        He had expected to have other culprits, in whose presence he could scold
                        Twonnet. But there she sat, drawn near to a window for light, looking
                        poutingly at the incomprehensible words about improper fractions and mixed
                        numbers.
                    Whittaker sat still a moment at his desk after all had gone and the door was
                        closed. He could not quite summon courage to speak to her as justice
                        demanded. In awkward embarrassment he arose from his place, walked to the
                        stove, poked the fire a little, then turned back again to his desk, all the
                        time watching furtively the pouting face of his pupil.
                    "Twonnet," he said presently, with great gentleness, "you'd better bring your
                        book here. I think I can make you understand."
                    "I don't understand it, and I can't!" she said, vehemently, as she threw the
                        book down on his desk.
                    "I'm sorry," said Whittaker, with kindness, and the 
                        
                            IMPROPER FRACTIONS.
                        
                         tones of his voice made Twonnet cry, in spite
                        of herself. "Sit here by the window."
                    Whittaker, in an abstract way, had a contempt for people who could not learn
                        easily, but he could not feel so toward this girl. She had shown herself his
                        superior in other things. And besides, he found her presence here in the
                        snowy evening like a benediction. He went over the explanation two or three
                        times. Somehow he was not in a hurry.
                    "It's of no use," lamented Twonnet, "I can't understand anything. I haven't
                        any head," and she shook her brown curls about her face and looked out the
                        window.
                    It was not considered proper for a teacher to praise a pupil in those days.
                        But her evident distress touched the man. His voice trembled a little when
                        he said:
                    "You have a superior mind and a very superior heartï¿½" But this set Twonet
                        a-crying again.
                    Not knowing what to do Whittaker at last hit upon a plan very much in advance
                        of the methods of that time. He took out of his desk two apples captured
                        from unlucky boys in school hours. Trimming the one that was bitten down to
                        a half, he put it with the whole one, and Twonnet, amused now at the curious
                        action and quick enough at perception of the concrete, understood at once
                        that a mixed number was. Then he divided the whole apple and the half into
                        quarters and made an improper fraction, telling her to write it on the
                        slate. Then he made her reduce it again to a mixed number, and then he cut
                        it into eighths and made other fractions. But it was getting dark and
                        Whittaker hurriedly closed the church and walked home with Twonnet, whose
                        spirits were entirely restored. He enjoyed her society as one does that of a
                        child.
                    At the supper-table Twonnet surprised everybody by  taking two biscuits at once. She cut off half of one and laid
                        it off her plate. Then addressing the younger children who sat near her, she
                        began:
                    "This is a mixed number, one and a half, you see." The imitation of
                        Whittaker's hesitant tones and New England accent were so perfect that
                        Isabelle and Adolphe were set laughing at once.
                    "Toinette, que fais-tu?" said her father, not quite understanding what
                        mischief she was at.
                    Mr. Whittaker smiled and reddened.
                    "Je donne une lecon d'arithmï¿½tique ï¿½ mon frï¿½re," she answered with
                        simplicity. "Now you, Adolphe, I cut this into quartersï¿½six quarters are
                        made. That is an improper fraction because it is more than a whole
                        number."
                    At this the children and Whittaker all laughed, even Petite Julie joined with
                        them, and the father saw plainly that Twonnet was mimicking Whittaker's
                        manners.
                    "Tais-toi, Toinette!" he said.
                    "Yes, sir," said the incorrigible girl, speaking now to her father but
                        holding fast to the minister's tone and manner, "but if these children would
                        only think of something besides play I wouldn't have to cut up my biscuits
                        to get knowledge into their shallow minds."
                    She closed this with an angular gesture and an inflection peculiar to
                        Whittaker, and so set the table in a roar, while she looked round
                        inquiringly as one who would say, "Why this merriment?"
                    "Tais-toi, je te dis!" cried her father, all the more angry that she had
                        provoked even him to laughter.
                    Whittaker did not like being laughed at,ï¿½who does? But in his life of dry
                        application and stern propriety the girl's daring animal spirits were as
                        refreshing as a well in  a desert.
                        Nevertheless, he reflected, when alone in his room, that she was of inferior
                        mental ability, for she could not master her lessons easily, and then her
                        laughter about it seemed flippant and frivolous. So unlike Roxy, over whom
                        even yet he could not quite help sighing! But this theory of the flippancy
                        of Twonnet's character was disturbed by what he knew of her at other times,
                        and he fell back upon his old conclusion that there was something about the
                        strange girl he could not make out.
                    He did not know that she had her cry in the garret the next morning when she
                        told the old doll that nobody would ever, ever love her because she did not
                        know anything and had no head at all.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVII.
                    DIVISIONS.
                    IT does seem that matrimony might be improved "in this
                        progressive age." How is it that there is no method by which a husband can
                        be guaranteed? When one considers how often a woman who has married a saint
                        of twentyfive finds in ten years that by some transformation she is wedded
                        to a middle-aged sinner, it really seems that there ought to be bondsmen who
                        should stand surety that the piety, industry and supple courtesy of the
                        bridegroom shall be perpetually maintained at the standard of the days of
                        courtship. A husband warranted to keep in any climate and to stand the test
                        of extraordinary temptations without molding or deteriorating in any respect
                        would be most desirable. In how few cases do women find the goods "as
                        represented." Indeed, it seems that the durability of a husband's good
                        qualities does not enter into the thought of a bride. All men are
                        unchangeable in the eyes of their sweethearts. Does it never occur to a
                        young woman who inquires anxiously whether a certain sort of dry goods "will
                        wash," to ask also whether a fair-seeming young man has fast colors in his
                        character, or whether after the first scrubbing that adverse circumstances
                        shall give him, he will come out a faded rag?
                    Here was Roxy, who had loved and married a heroic missionary, impatient to
                        brave malaria, alligators, and persecution in the republic of Texas, for the
                        kingdom of
                    
                    heaven's sake. In three-quarters of a year she finds that she is married to a
                        popular young lawyer, eager for small political honors, and caring nothing
                        for missions and precious little for the kingdom of heaven. By some
                        enchantment the man she had married is changed to another; one restraint
                        after another is slipping away. To what kind of a man will she be wedded in
                        an another year?
                    But it is not the husband alone that needs to be warranted. If Mark had
                        ceased to be the blazing comet of the religious firmament of Luzerne, Roxy's
                        steadier light also paled. The differences of thought and feeling between
                        the two were so great that Roxy had now a constant sense of being half
                        deserted, though Mark would have resented a charge of neglecting her. Mark,
                        indeed, found to his surprise that he had not married the meek and
                        inoffensive saint he thought. The shoe-maker's daughter developed the
                        shoe-maker's temper. She put Amanda's innuendoes and Mark's heedlessness
                        together. Whether she spoke her reprehension of Mark's ways, or whether she
                        kept silence, he knew that she was offended with him. Roxy began to
                        back-slideï¿½so it seemed to the church-members. For, from her constant
                        perturbation of mind and her constant irritation of temper, she was ever in
                        a state of self-reproach. She went to all the meetings, but she no longer
                        took a leading part. She sat off, as one apart from the rest; she spoke with
                        reserve; she treated her old friends shyly, and they said that her position
                        and the temptations of this world had led her away from the cross and made
                        her too proud to meet her friends cordially. For often a reserve that hides
                        a bitter humiliation seems to be haughtiness.
                    Is it any wonder that Mark felt his marriage a disappointment? He had given
                        Roxy social position, every
                    
                    comfort, liberty to be as pious as she pleased, a house with a row of
                        aristocratic Lombardy poplars, the Bonamy name. He had asked nothing on the
                        other hand but liberty to do as he pleased. And now because she could not
                        domineer over him and keep him from the career that his gifts fitted him
                        for, she was unhappy and ill-tempered. Was there a more inoffensive,
                        easy-going and kind-hearted husband in the world than he? He gave Roxy
                        everything. Do you wonder that he was angry and stubborn when he thought of
                        her dissatisfaction?ï¿½that he determined not to be controlled by a
                        woman?ï¿½that he showed his defiance by doing what he knew she most disliked
                        him to do? Mark Bonamy's friends should know that he was a man with a mind
                        of his own. Many a man sacrifices possible happiness to his vanity.
                    Amanda, by indirect means, encouraged this state of mind in Mark. Not that
                        she had any definite purpose in making mischief. Mischief-makers hardly ever
                        do; they make mischief from an appetiteï¿½in a sort of devilish enjoyment of
                        the upsetting they produce. Besides, it was not pleasant to Amanda to have
                        Roxy the chosen nurse of her father. She inly believed that Roxy had
                        interested motives. And mother Tartrum had evolved a similar theory from the
                        shallows of her own consciousness. Roxy was looking out for the will.
                    But Roxy found her former self only in what she did for Colonel Bonamy and
                        Bobo. She read to the old man. Sometimes she tried to awaken a religious
                        sense in him, but he only smiled or spoke petulantly. It was hard to trace
                        the action of his mind. To the controversy about Texas and the misson he
                        never alluded. He did not seem much interested in Mark's success. A state of
                        general apathy or petulant indifference seemed to have supervened
                    
                    on his life of restless and energetic action. He was relieved when the spring
                        came again. With the aid of his cane he promenaded, on clear days, up and
                        down the front porch, hobbling and holding by the balusters at times. What
                        he thought or felt, or whether he thought of anything or felt aught beyond
                        his physical ailments, Roxy could not guess. His mind seemed a little
                        stronger than at first and his hold on the nouns came to be firmer in
                        proportion.
                    Roxy used to wish that some of his old combativeness might return; then she
                        might come to know without humbling herself to ask, just what there was in
                        his allusion to Nancy Kirtley.
                    As for Nancy, when she had found that Mark was to remain within reach she had
                        given up all thought of berating him or his wife. There might be a chance
                        for revenge more to her taste. She had no very definite idea of what this
                        possible revenege was, or what it might lead to. She was impelled by blind
                        forces within her to seek conquest, to gratify vanity and resentment, to use
                        craft. She had no more forethought of the ultimate result of a course of
                        action, and hardly any more freedom of will, than an animal. She had all the
                        qualities of her race. Her ancestors delighted only in the craft, the
                        pursuit, the victory and the destructiveness of the chase. Nancy had the
                        same elements in her character; her weapons and her game were different.
                        That was all. She was still, like them, a beast of prey. Even her
                        resentments were as unreasonable as blind impulse could make them. It was
                        not Mark whom she hated, it was Roxy. Now that the "old man Bonamy," as she
                        styled him, "had the palsy bad," and Roxy was likely soon to be mistress of
                        the Lombardy poplars and the brick house, she found another  reason for malice. In her primitive state of
                        savagery, the sense of right and wrong had only reached a point according to
                        which everything she desired ought to have been hers. She wanted Mark and
                        what pertained to him, therefore she had been robbed by her who possessed
                        him. And she meant "to be even some day." Such was her notion of equity and
                        retributive justice. In moral culture she had not got beyond the age of
                        stone hatchets. The purpose of revenge grew to be part of her very nature,
                        it mixed itself with and intensified her passion for Bonamy; it became the
                        most desirable object in the world to her pride. She exulted at the thought
                        of a victory she meant to win, when everybody would see that she, Nancy
                        Kirtley, knew how to get even with that hateful Adams girl, and "pay her
                        back."
                    Nancy did not find much opportunity to try her blandishments on Mark. She and
                        her sister-in-law, the drayman's wife, did not get on harmoniously together,
                        and it was not possible for her to remain in her brother's house more than a
                        day or two at a time. By the end of two days spent together, the
                        incompatibility of the two women generally reached a climax, and separation
                        became inevitable. Whereupon Nancy would return to Rocky Fork, and while
                        away her time in dazzling the rustic beaus, according to her wont, keeping
                        half the young men and all the young women of the neighborhood in a state of
                        distraction.
                    In her occasional trips to town, she had only chance conversations with Mark
                        on the street. In these interviews Mark treated her with off-hand
                        cordiality, partly because he was afraid of her, but partly also because he
                        could not but feel the fascination of her physical perfectness.
                    
                    Nancy saw with delight that McGowan, the most devoted of her lovers, was
                        waxing desperate under her treatment. She alternately fascinated and froze
                        him. She was "like the second-day ager," Jim said. "She was now this away,
                        now that away. Some days she was all shiney-like and sweet; and then the
                        very next day she looked at him so as to make the cold chills run down his
                        back."
                    Nancy took so much pleasure in the cat-like sense of power she had in playing
                        with the hopes and fears of the poor fellow, who was thus beyond escape the
                        prey of her fasci-nations, that she was delighted to see him in these days
                        often intoxicated. She knew that everybody would say that she had "played
                        the devil with Jim," and that was a tribute to her power. Her pleasure at
                        having thus enmeshed him tended to abate her resentment toward Roxy; but
                        that resentment was suddenly fanned into a new flame.
                    As McGowan went past the cabin of the Kirtleys one evening early in June,
                        just enough intoxicated to be defiant, he reined up his horses and began to
                        call Nancy. The girl was wonderfully amused at his inebriate condition, and
                        she came out prepared to enjoy it.
                    "Nance," said Jim, looking at her with suppressed glee, "ole Bonamy's dead.
                        Had another fit to-day, and cleared out. Guess the money's gone to Mark. Git
                        up!"
                    And Jim comforted himself for the next mile by chuckling in his inebriety, "I
                        made her mad that time. Won't ole sis hop around now? Hoop!"
                    And could he have heard the denunciations of Roxy to which Nancy gave vent
                        when he was gone, his drunken malice would have been content. Nancy's one
                        consolation  was that she would "get even,"
                        and "pay her back yet." She began her revenge by quarreling with her mother,
                        and making the house so hot that even the thick-skinned old Gid left the old
                        woman and her youngest child to "have it out," while he went over to Canaan
                        and got his twisted bottle filled.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVIII.
                    GOING WRONG.
                    COLONEL BONAMY died sitting in his
                        chair on the porch while Roxy was reading to him. That is all there is to
                        say about it, except that there was a very large concourse at the funeral.
                        It is quite worth while to be a leading man in one's town, if one wants to
                        be followed to the grave by a great procession of indifferent people, and
                        discussed adversely by all the gossips of the county. Of what use was
                        Colonel Bonamy's money now? The unanswerableness of this question gave great
                        satisfaction to those who had envied him all his life. "He couldn't take the
                        money with him." "Wonder if his property will do him any good where he's
                        gone?" "Guess he's found out to his satisfaction by this time whether
                        there's any hereafter." It is a great comfort to us all that death brings
                        everybody to a level at last.
                    All the world, as the French say, had talked about Mark's backsliding, and
                        now all the world wondered whether this solemn warning would do him any
                        good. Mark was not without feeling, though he had never loved his father,
                        except with what might be called a conventional affection. He shed
                        conventional tears, and felt a conventional sorrow. He really thought
                        himself bereaved, and, in a conventional way, he was bereaved. He did feel
                        touched to have so active a force as his father had been, wholly gone out of
                        his life. He went softly for awhile.
                    
                    He attended church for two consecutive Sundays, and once even staid to
                        class-meeting with Roxy.
                    But the habits of life he had been forming were too congenial to his
                        ambitious and self-indulgent nature to be easily broken. When the will was
                        read, it was found that fully one-half of the property was his. Stepping at
                        once into the position of a rich manï¿½rich, as the times and the town
                        wentï¿½was not a means of grace to a young man prone to regard himself as
                        the most important person within the horizon, and to deduce from that
                        importance an inference of self-indulgence. It surely is not needful that I
                        weary the reader with the story of his moral decline during the year
                        following his father's death. Look into the face of your next neighbor, and
                        perhaps you can read this same trite story of vanity and egotism, ambition
                        and self-indulgence, pampered by the flattery of friends. It is one of the
                        oldest stories in the world. Nevertheless, this world of ours, which is
                        always learning and ever forgetting, never fails to be filled with surprise
                        when a man of ability travels in this wayï¿½the "easy descent to perdition."
                        Hasn't a smart man sense enough not to walk straight into the fire? But it
                        is the smartness that helps to drive a man sometimes,ï¿½the smartness and
                        the power of intense enjoyment and of intense suffering that a man of active
                        faculties possesses,ï¿½the intoxication that comes of flattery and
                        success,ï¿½the provocation to pleasure that beset a man of vivid imagination
                        above all his fellows. The dull man is only tried by those temptations that
                        can reach his senses; the man of imagination is be-deviled by a thousand
                        sirens that others never see, and he has the power of putting garments of
                        light on Diabolus, for his own delectation. If you will add to all this the
                        self-confidence that is fed by a sense of power, you will have some  of the elements that make men of quick
                        intelligence walk face forward into moral perdition. Genius is, indeed, "the
                        worst horse in the stable," as says the clown. A little helm for a little
                        ship, but a greater vessel needs a larger rudder, and woe to him who has
                        imagination and mental activity and passion, disproportioned to his moral
                        sense.
                    It matters not to this story that I shall tell you how Amanda Bonamy was
                        married. It was not a marriage you would care to hear about. A matter of
                        active, pushing, self-seeking young Benjamin Barlow, attorney and
                        counselor-at-law, on the one side, and Miss Amanda Bonamy and ten thousand
                        dollars on the other. Roxy's life was all the less unhappy after Amanda had
                        moved to the other end of the village, though she could not help hearing
                        repeated the words by which Mrs. Barlow suggested to her friends that it was
                        hardly fair that Roxy Adams should have crowded her out of the house her
                        father built. And all the town imagined that the luckiest woman of all the
                        town was the shoe-maker's daughter, whose principal occupation in life it
                        was to entertain the local politicians in the brick house behind the two
                        rows of Lombardies, which stood like stiff grenadiers guarding the entrance.
                        Her distaste for her occupations and her sharp discipline in living under
                        the surveillance of Amanda, had given her an air that passed among
                        superficial observers for hauteur. The politicians, when they were her
                        guests at dinner, thought her proud. Her old neighbors deemed that she "put
                        on airs," and consoled themselves by remembering how poor she had been.
                    So came the summer of 1843. Mark's father had been dead a year. Mark's habits
                        in the matter of occasional drinking and frequent gambling for small amounts
                        had  come to be so well known that he
                        preferred to withdraw from the church rather than to fall under discipline
                        again. His ambition was now his consuming passion. The Whig victory of 1840
                        had been barren enough. It had brought the party nothing but chagrin and
                        John Tyler. Despite the all-prevailing Millerite excitement about the end of
                        the world, the Whigs were now preparing to win victory, if possible, once
                        more in 1844. And Mark was so absorbed with desire to be the candidate for
                        Congress in that next year's campaign that more than ever he became
                        uncongenial to his home and his home distasteful to him.
                    For the more he wandered the more did Roxy, like many another wife, seek to
                        make atonement for his sins by redoubled faithfulness and severity in her
                        own Christian life. Not that she would have confessed any belief in the
                        transferable value of works of supererogation. But we all believe in our
                        secret superstitious selves many things that would horrify us if written out
                        in creeds. And had she not been taught by ministers of every name, that the
                        incessant prayer of a faithful wife would surely be answered? Her growing
                        austerity was partly for Mark's sake, and this growing austerity repelled
                        the husband she sought to reclaim.
                    What a reconciler of uncongenialities may a child become! Given a child and
                        there is at least one strong common interest, for when man and wife are
                        partners in a new life there are a thousand things to draw them together.
                        But there was no heir to the Bonamy home and the Bonamy ascendancy. So that
                        Amanda being married and Janet having found the discord between Mark and his
                        wife uncomfortable and having betaken herself to a residence with a widowed
                        aunt in Louisville, Roxy's life was lonely, inactive and unhappy.
                        Disappointments that  would have made some
                        women viragoes, made Roxy austere. She was afraid that in the temptations
                        about her she should somehow "compromise her religion," as the phrase went.
                        Much of her attitude of censure and rebuke toward Mark came from this
                        resolution not to compromise her integrity in any way.
                    There was only one person who profited by Roxy's unhappiness. All the wealth
                        of her love and benevolence were poured out upon Bobo, whose intelligence
                        slowly increased under her teaching. He could read a little now, and he
                        learned to recite a great deal of poetry, but his understanding was very
                        one-sided and lame. Mark disliked him with a sort of jealousy, and he in
                        turn shrank away from Mark, and so he added to the division of feeling in
                        the house.
                    As Roxy's loneliness increased the old intimacy with Twonnet came back by
                        degrees. But there was always a little sacred fiction kept up between them.
                        Both pretended that Roxy's married life was happy, both knew that the
                        pretense was a hollow one, and both knew that its hollowness deceived
                        neither of them. But there are some hypocrisies that are purely
                        provisional,ï¿½meant to impose on no one, but only to furnish a basis for
                        possible intercourse. Any confession of her unhappiness on Roxy's part would
                        have put an end to the intimacy at once.
                    As for Twonnet, life went on with her much as ever. She still attended in the
                        winter Mr. Whittaker's school. She still cried over her lessons. She still
                        tormented the good man with her mischief. And though he had a sense of being
                        perpetually ridiculous in her eyes she was the one piquant element in his
                        life full of dry and dusty application to duty. He had come by degrees to
                        tolerate her slowness in getting her lessons, though he could not  understand how so stupid a student could be
                        so bright a woman. For woman he knew she was,ï¿½a woman hiding yet under the
                        mask of a merry and thoughtless girl. He understood enough of her to guess
                        at her purpose in seeing so much of Roxy. And when one evening in the latter
                        part of the September of 1843, Twonnet came back from Roxy's with a sobered
                        face, Whittaker guessed that the uncongeniality in the house behind the
                        poplars had brought on some kind of a climax.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIX.
                    THE EASY ROAD DOWNWARD.
                    WHEN a man abides in a mine and sees no sunlight he cannot
                        know when there come over him crookedness and purblindness, but crookedness
                        and purblindness come. When a man digs in the caverns of conceit, of self
                        indulgence, of sensuality, he may not see the change that comes over him,
                        but sooner or later he is transformed, and when at last he tries to shake
                        off the goblin shape he wonders perhaps when it was that his erect soul
                        became so distorted by darkness and burdens. No man falls like Lucifer from
                        heavenï¿½the progress of evil is slow and not easily perceived. If thou hast
                        defeated Circe, and escaped all swinish transformations then mayest thou
                        proceed in safety and resist the sirens.
                    Perhaps it was because Roxy felt by intuition the steady decline of Mark's
                        tone, that she took so strong a course of opposition to things that, by
                        themselves, were hardly worthy the serious treatment she gave them. And it
                        was no doubt because Mark was prone to take lightly his own peccadilloes
                        because they were his own, that he counted Roxy unreasonably severe and
                        domineering. An act that seemed grave to her because it was symptomatic was
                        utterly trivial to him, accustomed as he was to see himself always in the
                        light of his own unclouded complacency. And because he judged Roxy to be
                        harsh and unreasonable he threw off her influence wholly.
                    
                    In order to bring about his own nomination to Congress in 1844 it was
                        necessary to secure the election of his brother-in-law Barlow to the
                        legislature in the legislature in the previous year, that Bonamy's
                        supporters might have the prestige of success in their own county. It was
                        Mark's great recommendation that he had popularity enough to carry a
                        Democratic county. And now Barlow was to help Mark to conquer if Bonamy
                        would help him to the legislature. It was in fulfillment of his part of this
                        compact that Mark prepared to ride to the Republican meeting-house just
                        before the election. Barlow was strong in the eastern end of the county, but
                        he needed help in the northwest where Mark had some friends.
                    "You will remember," said Bonamy, "that I shall expect the same kind of
                        service from you next year. We must hold together and win, whatever we
                        do."
                    "Yes," said Barlow. "But if you want to succeed you'd better stop asking
                        people home to dinner. Your wife is peculiar and people thinkï¿½"
                    "Now Barlow," said Mark, "that'll do. My wife is not to be discussed even by
                        my brother-in-law."
                    But Mark went home angry. His wife not only vexed him with foolish seruples,
                        but she stood between him and success. She was a elog. She weighed him down.
                        He felt sorry for himself. Poor fellow! What a pity that he had married a
                        cobbler's girl, who never would rise to her station. That she was unfit for
                        her position he had now conclusive evidence. The township magnates were not
                        conciliated by her. And Mark, who hoped by dint of his smartness and family
                        position to win Congress at the very start of his life, found himself balked
                        by an unlucky marriage to a woman who was smart enough, but with no
                        largeness of aspiration.
                    
                    I doubt not many another woman not wanting in quality would have been a dead
                        weight to Mark in such circumstances. Imagine Jacqueline Pascal entertaining
                        at dinner the most influential blacksmith in Posey township and the
                        capacious hotel-keeper of Braytown, in the interest of a husband's election
                        to the American Congress. It is just possible that good Hannah More, or
                        enthusiastic Eugï¿½nie de Guï¿½rin, for instance, would neither of them, in
                        Roxy's situation, have laughed heartily enough at the funny stories of the
                        landlord, which he himself emphasized with uproarious mirth. Even Maria Hare
                        or Madame de Meulan-Guizot would probably have failed to show sufficient
                        interest in the blacksmith's account of his wife's achievements in making
                        "blue-dye" by a method her grandmother learned in Tennessee. There are
                        limitations of excellences as well as of defects.
                    But the more Mark thought about it, the more grievous it seemed to him that
                        all the bright prospects of his life should be blighted by Roxy's
                        unwillingness to help him. Of course it is not the business of a husband to
                        consider whether a wife's hopes are elouded. The rib came from Adam's side,
                        and the woman was made for man. Barlow's words about Roxy rankled. The next
                        morning, as Mark put a few needful things into his saddle-bags before
                        starting away, he nerved himself to deliver a serious protest to Roxy. It is
                        a little hard to declaim to a elair-voyant woman, who gives one the
                        uncomfortable feeling that she is looking through all small hypocrisies. But
                        it must be done sometimes.
                    Mark began in a tone of appeal, as of one who has suffered many things.
                    "Roxy, I do wish you could be a little moreï¿½obligingï¿½andï¿½polite, you
                        know, to the people I ask here to dinner. 
                        They are common, country people; but you oughtn't to look down on them."
                    "I look down on them!" And Roxy turned full upon him her wide-open,
                        wondering, guileless eyes. "I hope I don't look down on anybody."
                    "But then youï¿½you might say pleasant things to them about their wives and
                        children and theirï¿½their affairs. Make them feel happy. Amanda flatters
                        everybody that comes to her house, and she will make Ben's fortune if she
                        keeps on. People go away from here and say you are proud."
                    Roxy's eyes fell.
                    "I can't say such things as Amanda does. She pretends to like people that she
                        doesn't like. The people you bring here are rough, tricky, and drinking men.
                        I can't bear them."
                    Mark winced under this. There was a latent consciousness that in the
                        particulars she named he was growing more like these men, and he suspected a
                        thrust at himself. He slowly rolled up his leggins and stuffed them into his
                        saddle-bags.
                    "I think you might take some interest in my affairs." Mark's strong refuge
                        was a constant sympathy with his own sorrows.
                    "But I can't tell lies, Mark, and you oughtn't to ask that.
                        I haven't any heart for this whole business. It ruins my husband. He comes
                        home to me smelling of spirits; he brings home men whom he ought to despise;
                        he thinks of nothing but of winning an office, and he goes with men that do
                        him harm, I'm sure. Oh, Mark!ï¿½"
                    But Roxy broke down here and left her appeal un-uttered. It is a woman's way,
                        and very exasperating to a man, to break into unanswerable silence or
                        eloquent tears  in the middle of a
                        controversy. But Mark had now thoroughly lost his temper, and his voice
                        assumed a rasping harshness quite unusual with him.
                    "This is the honor you show your husband. I've given you every comfort, and a
                        high social position; but you care more for that idiot Bobo than for me. You
                        take no interest in my affairs because I won't turn preacher and go moping
                        around like Whittaker."
                    The mention of Whittaker at this point stung Roxy far more than Mark
                        intended. Quick as a flash there sprang into view in her mind a most
                        disloyal and unwifely comparison, which may have been latent there for a
                        long while. The superiority of Whittaker, in all his pursuits and aims, to
                        Mark, stood forth in her thoughts, and for the first time there was forced
                        upon her, with a dreadful pang, a confession to her own soul that her choice
                        had been a mistake. How long had she fended off this feeling! Once
                        recognized, her thoughts about her husband could never more be the same.
                        Mark had meant to say a rude thing; he little dreamed how his own image in
                        Roxy's heart had been dragged into the dirt and forever degraded by the
                        train of thought his words had started. It was because of the great agony
                        she suffered from the sharp contrast so unfavorable to the man she had
                        chosen, that she sat silent. Mark was sure that his words were having an
                        effect. Now was the time to achieve that mastery in his own house so
                        necessary to re-establish his standing with his friendsï¿½with Barlow and
                        Amanda and the rest. So he proceeded:
                    "You ought to know what people will say. They think that, because you were
                        poor and then married a man well off, that you are stuck-up. I don't like
                        people to say that. And really, Roxy, you ought to be pretty well satisfied
                        with  your position." Mark hardly intended
                        this last sentence to have the condescending tone that he gave it. He did
                        not mean to insult his wife, but to defend his own dignity. He would fain
                        have recalled the words when he saw the first flash of quick and fiery
                        indignation in Roxy's flushed face and eyes that shone like live coals.
                    "Mark Bonamy, do you think I thank you for giving me this house and making me
                        the wife of a rich man? I took you because you were poor and a missionary,
                        going to endure everything for a good cause. Your father meant to leave you
                        poor." Here Roxy stopped to take breath. "I wish to goodness you were poor
                        again, and the Mark you used to be, or the Mark I thought you. Isn't it bad
                        enough that you have changed? Is there any reason why you should insult your
                        wife with such words? I thank you for nothing! I thank you for nothing from
                        this time forth!"
                    "Well," said Mark bitterly, "the truth is the truth. If you let your notions
                        interfere, you show that you are not fitted for your station. It is time you
                        learned that you are not a poor shoe-maker's girl any longer."
                    "I wish I was. From the bottom of my heart, Mark, I wish I was. If I could
                        only go back to the dear old home, and be what I was! You have made me wish
                        it this day, by the words you have said. You drive the love out of my heart
                        entirely. If you say much more, you'll make me despise you!"
                    Roxy ran away to her room. She could not control her temper now; but she knew
                        how severely she must do penance for it after awhile. For even in her
                        passion she knew, in a blind way, that all this could do no good, and might
                        do a great deal of harm. But her sensitive pride, so long wounded by the
                        tacit assumption that she was  under
                        obligation for the dignity of her social position, now uttered one vehement
                        protest against all the torture it had endured since her marriage.
                    Mark rode away angry, and, as usual, with a very genuine sorrow for himself.
                        For in the long-unused upper chambers of his soul there was still a sort of
                        love for Roxy. Now he felt all the bitterness of sorely wounded vanity. He
                        drank more deeply than usual before leaving the town, and he stopped at
                        Sterling for another drink. He drove his horse on and on, over the rough
                        limestone of the hollows, that he might give vent to his impatience. The
                        deliciousness of the early autumn in these deep, shady glens, the muffled
                        murmur of the brooks, already choked with the accumulated leaves and other
                        dï¿½bris of the summer, only irritated him, by making more evident to him
                        the turbulency of anger and something akin to despair in his own heart.
                    He did not see the oncoming of a great storm until the thunder burst
                        overhead. Then he would not so much as tie on his leggins. He relished the
                        pelting of the dashing rain. It was a counter-irritant to the storm within.
                        He rode past many farm-houses, but he would not stop.
                    It was characteristic of the impetuosity of the man that he should feel so
                        keenly this terrible blow to his self-esteem. He was sure the fault must be
                        Roxy's. All his friends admired and flattered him. She alone took it on her
                        to rebuke him; and, as hers was a voice solitary and unsupported, and above
                        all disagreeable to his feelings, she was clearly wrong. And what a gross
                        and wicked shame it was, that a well-natured and indulgent husbandï¿½such as
                        heï¿½should be stung by such insulting taunts, all because he did not want
                        his prospects blighted by a perverse wife!
                    
                    It had rained an hour and he was wet through when he came to Kirtley's cabin,
                        standing low-browed and dripping in the rain like a brute that sullenly
                        endures a storm from which it has no shelter. When he saw it a new train of
                        thought seized him. In that cabin was a woman who loved him and who would go
                        to the ends of the earth for him. There were plenty of women who would give
                        the world for what Roxy spurned. The thought flattered and solaced him. He
                        slackened pace a little, looked through the window at the blazing fire on
                        the great hearth, asked himself whether he should not go in and dry himself
                        by the fire. But a sudden vision of the possible results of such a course
                        made him whip up his horse in desperation.
                    Ulysses stopped with wax, you will remember, the ears of his sailors while
                        they were in hearing of the sirens, and caused himself to be fast bound to
                        the mast, taking the same precaution against the seduction of temptation
                        that our Farragut took against bombshells. But he who loosens in any degree
                        the moral restraints of his life, unstops his ears and unbinds his limbs
                        that he may fall easy prey to the "sirens sitting in the meads." And now as
                        Mark plunged on through the deepening mud and the pouring rain he hearkened
                        to the voice of the siren. The Homeric Greeks in their simplicity dreaded
                        only sirens within earshot. But the modern man of more complex nature and
                        gifted with a brooding imagination cannot run away so easily from the
                        "mellifluous song" of seducing temptation. Half a mile beyond the Kirtley
                        cabin was the ford. Rocky Fork had risen bankfull. There was no crossing
                        except by swimming his horse. A daring fellow like Mark would not mind a
                        spice of danger; he knew that he ought to go on at all hazards; but the
                        siren's voice was in his ear. Self-pity had unbound all his resolution.
                    
                    The flood in the creek afforded him a pretext. He rode back and took refuge
                        for the next twenty-four hours in the house of Kirtley, while he waited for
                        the creek to subside.
                    Now there was a certain foolish man that builded his house upon the sand. The
                        rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that
                        house.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XL.
                    ROXY AND WHITTAKER.
                    ROXY was not one of those who nurse a sense of wrong and
                        keep the judgment warped by anger. The life-long habit of looking her own
                        soul in the face saved her from this. As soon as the first tempest of her
                        wrath was over she began to hold a drum-head court-martial on herself. Here
                        is the difference between the lapses of the person of high tone and those of
                        a nature relaxed and weak. The test of moral character is not infallibility
                        but recuperative power.
                    Roxy could plainly see that she had not been angry without cause. But then
                        her anger had been chiefly about her own sufferings. She had forgotten
                        Mark's good in her regard for her own dignity. So the court-martial voted
                        her guilty. Thus while Mark rode away across hill and hollow, shifting all
                        responsibility to his wife, Roxy scourged herself with severity all that
                        long rainy day for her lack of self-control. And when the bitterest
                        bitterness of her self-reproaches was spent, she awakened suddenly to a
                        questioning of her method of reforming Mark. Was the uncompromising protest
                        so much urged in that day the best? Had she not lost all hold on Mark? But
                        by any other plan would she not "compromise her religion" and "deny her
                        Master"? In this perplexity she saw no way out. And during the Stormy night
                        that followed, she prayed a hundred times for Mark, she vowed that she would
                        suffer  any affliction herself if only he
                        might be saved. If any sickness, sorrow or death inflicted on her would
                        rescue him she would receive it patiently. But prayers are never answered as
                        people expect them to be. The Over-ruler works in his own way. If Roxy could
                        have seen by what way the future would give what she prayed for, would ever
                        she have prayed this prayer? I cannot say she would not, for now all the
                        enthusiasm of the girl Roxy who picked blackberries for the poor, of the
                        religious Roxy who sought to save souls in revivals, of the saint Roxy who
                        tended with soft hands the sick, of the missionary Roxy who wished to seek
                        the lost in Texas, centered itself in the all-consuming desire to save Mark.
                        Here was her mission-field henceforth. Why had she missed it so long? Out of
                        that sleepless night she came with a fixed resolve, such as only an exalted
                        nature can persist in.
                    She longed now to see Mark. She had put him out of the place of a husband on
                        whom she had claim for reciprocal duty, into that of an object of missionary
                        enthusiasm for whom she would endure anything. She would be patient,
                        cheerful, uncomplaining. She was determined to find some way in heaven or
                        earth of reaching him. But there returned to her the old dilemma. She must
                        not "do evil that good might come," and would it not be doing evil for her
                        to enter at all into Mark's worldliness?
                    She could not think of any one with whom to advise. Twonnet seemed such a
                        child. The new Methodist minister was almost a stranger, and she could not
                        confide to him, or to any class-leader or "mother in Israel," her troubles.
                        But there was Whittaker. He already knew something about the Kirtley matter,
                        whatever that might be. He was kind-hearted. He had loved her once and  he could help her. She thought of him as the
                        one person to whose superior moral sense she could commit a matter of
                        conscience; for Mark's words about him and the sudden painful contrast she
                        had felt between him and her husband the day before had fixed him in her
                        mind as the one most likely to see rightly in a question of duty. Whittaker
                        was still accustomed to call at her father's, and she planned at first to
                        meet him there, but her natural frankness made her hate indirection of any
                        kind. She would not do right as though she were doing wrong. Not that she
                        thought out or formulated such a resolution,ï¿½women do not generally do
                        that; but she felt this out quickly.
                    The clouds had gone, the sun shone out over the yellowing fields of corn, and
                        the vineyards hanging with purple grapes, while Roxy wandered about her
                        house in doubt. The hired men were getting ready for the apple-gathering;
                        the hired girl was busy in the kitchen, and Roxy, uneasy, sought the porch,
                        the lawn, the lonesome parlor, and then her own room, trying first in one
                        place and then in another to settle the puzzling questions that beset her,
                        but never for a moment re-opening the question settled by the solemnest vow,
                        to spend herself for the regeneration of Mark. This ceasing to beat
                        aimlessly against circumstance,ï¿½this finding at last an object toward
                        which to send the whole force of her nature, brought to her something like
                        peace. For direct and concentrated action toward an unselfish aim was the
                        condition of happiness to her temperament.
                    There were yet within her fountains of misery. Reproaches for her failure to
                        see her way earlier, an undefined dread of irreparable evil from the quarrel
                        of the day before, and doubt as to the best method of accomplishing her
                        purpose, all troubled her. But it was something  to know whither she meant to go. Obstacles almost exhilarate a brave
                        soul; they are made for the joy there is in overcoming them. Then, too, the
                        old resentment toward Markï¿½the feeling of pride sore-wounded by
                        neglectï¿½was almost cured. In her thoughts her husband was hardly any
                        longer a person to be held accountable; he had become an object. For the
                        intensely serious woman no less than the frivolous woman has this power of
                        working romantic transformations by the action of feeling and
                        imagination.
                    Twonnet came in the middle of the forenoon, fresh and blithe, and laughing
                        and chaffing, and all out of tune with Roxy, who was as abstracted as a
                        penitent in a cloister. Never a red-bird sang with more abandon than Twonnet
                        talked that morning, bent on driving away Roxy's "blues." But at last she
                        gave over.
                    "What is the matter, Roxy?"
                    Roxy's awe-stricken look had smitten the mercurial girl with a great horror
                        of she knew not what, and sent the tears into her eyes.
                    "Tell me what is the matter?" and she leaned forward with one hand clenched,
                        in a sudden anxiety.
                    Roxy stretched out her arms to her friend, but answered not a word. In a
                        moment the two were in a silent embrace. Roxy did not weep, and Twonnet,
                        oppressed with awe and mystery, did not dare to sob.
                    After a long while, Roxy said:
                    "Oh, Twonnet, I've been had!"
                    "You've been bad!" and Twonnet disengaged herself and looked indignantly at
                        her friend.
                    "I've been selfish, and angry, and cross to Mark, and I've sent him away
                        angry, and I don't know what harm I've done."
                    
                    "You! You've been good and patient, and I wonder at you sometimes."
                    "Twonnet, I am looking for some dreadful punishment. But I am going to be
                        better. I don't know how. I want to see Mr. Whittaker. Nobody else can help
                        me. You must see about it."
                    And though Twonnet said all she could to cheer the other, Roxy was silent and
                        fell back again into that state of solemn abstraction that seemed to Twonnet
                        a hopeless desolation. Twonnet went home to see Whittaker and to arrange for
                        the meeting between the two.
                    "I tell you what, Mr. Whittaker," she said, "I am sure there is some trouble
                        in that family that will not be easily settled. Roxy has an awful look in
                        her face. I don't believe they two can get on. Now, if you touch it, I'm
                        afraid you'll be talked about and have trouble. Mark is doing badly and
                        going with bad company. If he is very mad with Roxy, nobody knows what may
                        be said about you."
                    Whittaker paced the floor in some agitation. Twonnet's words had come to have
                        weight with him, and he was morbidly sensitive to reproach.
                    "If you think it would not be prudent," Twonnet proceeded, "I will just tell
                        Roxy that I don't think it best, and get you out of it the best I can. Roxy
                        is very reasonable."
                    After a while, Whittaker said:
                    "You wouldn't think much of a soldier, Twonnet, who would run away from
                        danger. Now, a minister does not have to face bombshells, but slander. It is
                        his business to take his risks, terrible as they are. Here's a woman in some
                        grievous trouble who wants my advice. I'll give it if I am shot for it. I
                        don't say anything about her being an old friend. Any man or woman who asks
                        sympathy  or advice from a minister must be
                        helped at all hazards, if the minister can help. The light-house keeper must
                        not let his light go out because there's a storm. The question is whether I
                        shall meet Roxy at her house, at her father's, or here. You know better than
                        I do."
                    "Wat's dat you zay about bombshells?" broke in the old grandfather, in a red
                        cap, sitting near at hand, catching a bit of autumn sunshine and hearing
                        snatches of the talk between the minister and Twonnet. "It was vary
                        cooriousï¿½je vous disï¿½I tell youï¿½wat happeened to me, il y a long
                        temps. It ees now feefty year ago." And he wandered off into a garrulous
                        story of military adventure, at the close of which Twonnet had made up her
                        mind that Roxy must come up with her that very afternoon and meet Whittaker
                        in the Lefaures' house.
                    When at last they sat together in the parlor of the old long house, the Swiss
                        clock ticking softly on the wall, Roxy had still her awe-stricken look, with
                        a look of internal conflict superadded. For there is that in the cool
                        reserve of a New Englander that damps the more demonstrative Westerner.
                        Whittaker's silence oppressed Roxy. Twonnet had disappeared on some pretext,
                        and the two were alone with only the solemn, regular, conscience-like old
                        clock for third party and witness.
                    And as Roxy sat thus looking out at the grass and the shrivelling dog-fennel
                        of the street, did she remember the time when once before she looked out of
                        another window in embarrassment rather than face Mr. Whittaker? "Whittaker
                        remembered, and it was in part this memory and the feelings excited by it
                        that gave him his air of reserve. Roxy looked out of the window a long
                        while; then she bit her quivering lip and sighed, and then relapsed into
                        looking out of the window.
                    
                    "I'm afraid," she said, at lastï¿½and then she did not finish, for Mr.
                        Whittaker sat there waiting for her to begin, and she thought it unkind that
                        he should be so silent and open no way for her to speak.
                    "I am afraid I have done wrong to trouble you," she said, after a long
                        time.
                    "My dear madamï¿½my dear friend," said Whittaker, earnestly, "I only wish I
                        could be of service to you."
                    When a self-contained man does speak with feeling his words have
                        extraordinary force by contrast with the background of habitual reserve.
                        Roxy's tears now ran down her face unchecked.
                    "I have been bad. You must not expect me to explain. I can't tell you all. I
                        might excuse myself, but I will not, for I deserve to have you think me
                        wicked. I have been selfish, angry, and harsh to my husband. I have done
                        harm, though, indeed, I wanted to be good."
                    Whittaker did not check this strain of self-reproach. Penitence is God's own
                        medicine.
                    "I am sorry for you. I needn't tell you that God is sorry for you also."
                    "I know that. The past is past. I am ashamed of it. God can forgive me; but,
                        then, the harm I have done is done, and I can never undo it. But I cannot
                        tell you any more about it."
                    "Don't tell me anything. You may be too severe with yourself, and you owe it
                        to your husband to tell me as little as possible of your domestic life. At
                        any rate, we cannot undo the past, and it will only embarrass you and me
                        both for me to know what you shrink from disclosing. Tell me only what is
                        necessary."
                    Is it wonderful or blameworthy that Roxy noted this  thoughtfulness, and wondered at the difference between
                        Whittaker and Mark? But she said, eagerly:
                    "I want to bring my husband to a better slate, He is notï¿½badï¿½but then his
                        company is not good, and he is not goingï¿½quiteï¿½quite
                        as I wish he would. And I've been very hard and willful and angry in my
                        efforts to bring him back. And I've done harm."
                    "And you want to undo it."
                    "Yes, and I want to undo all the harm, and bring Mark back toï¿½to what he
                        ought to be."
                    "Then take Christ's way."
                    "What's that? Do you mean to suffer for him? I am sure now that I see my sin,
                        I would die for him."
                    Whittaker shook himself in a negativing way. When he had a practical
                        difficulty to deal with, he instinctively shook off all theological ways of
                        thinking, and all the phraseology of the schools, putting to work only the
                        shrewd mother-wit that he had got from a long line of shrewd and
                        hard-working New England ancestors. He helped a soul out of difficulty with
                        the same practical judgment that his grandfather had used in sailing a
                        whale-ship in a storm. So now when Roxy talked about dying for Mark, he gave
                        himself a little twitch, as though he would dissipate all theories. With
                        that gesture he shook off the student and the theologian, and brought out
                        the shrewd Yankee below.
                    "I don't mean that, Mrs. Bonamyï¿½Roxy. Did you ever notice that Christ was
                        wise in a practical way,ï¿½was what you Western people call 'a good
                        manager'?"
                    Roxy looked up suddenly, the old intelligent wonder coming back into her
                        eyes.
                    "Christ got people to love him first. That is the first thing. He made the
                        publicans love him by going to dinner  with
                        them; he made the woman that was a sinner love him. She loved much. When
                        they loved him, h- could save them."
                    Just here some theological and systemic doubts arose in the minister's mind,
                        but he gave another impatient twitch, and the practical man kept the
                        systematic theology in a beyance.
                    "Yes," said Roxy. "I saw the necessity for that this morning. Now there's my
                        difficulty. If I try to regain my husband by that means, I must enter into
                        his pursuits. They don't seem right to me. You know what Paul says about
                        partaking in other men's sins. Would I be doing evil that good may come?
                        Would I be compromising my religious principles?"
                    "I can see that you have been very wrong,ï¿½very wrong."
                    Roxy was a little hurt with this sharp rebuke.
                    Whittaker gave his theological self a good shaking, and then resumed:
                    "Now let us be practical. If your husband were down in a pit and you wanted
                        to get him out, you would put - ladder down to him; you'd
                        go down to help him, if he needed help. You wouldn't compromise the daylight
                        by such an action. Unless you succeed in establishing a ground of sympathy
                        between him and you, you can't help him. Put down a ladder. It don't do to
                        philosophize too much about a practical matter. Use Scripture where
                        Scripture applies, and common sense in matters that need common sense. God
                        gave common sense, and it is divine also." Here Whittaker paused. He was
                        astonished at his own words. The position he was taking was a new one,
                        forced on him by the difficulties presented to him. Nor could he have
                        applied these principles to scruples of his own.
                    
                    "Don't do anything wrong," he went on, after a moment. "But when your husband
                        loved you first, your feelings toward him were different from what they are
                        now?"
                    "I admired him greatly." Roxy's eyes were downcast.
                    "Surely there is much to admire now in Mr. Bonamy. His nature is not on so
                        high a key as yours, perhaps, and you have judged him by your standard; you
                        have been hard. Is it not so?"
                    
                        -Roxy bit her lip, but made no reply.
                    "You could praise your husband for a great many things. The world appreciates
                        his gifts. Only at home he has been chilled by censure. I think he is a man
                        who craves approval."
                    Roxy was now sobbing audibly and bitterly with her head between her
                        hands.
                    "I should make the mistake I am warning you against i- I
                        didn't sayï¿½Roxyï¿½my dear, good friendï¿½that your mistaken severity comes
                        from the mobleness of your character. Your errors are on that side."
                    Roxy, when she perceived that Whittaker had finished and was silent, picked
                        up the sunbonnet she had worn and drew it down over her eyes so as to hide
                        her tear-stained face. In her heart she thanked him, but her lips spoke not.
                        She held out her hand and he took it. Then for the first time she saw that
                        he had been weeping also. But he only said as he held her hand:
                    " 'Ye that are strong ought also to bear the infirmities of the weak.' "
                    "Don't think badly of my husband," Roxy said with a woman's pride, as she
                        paused on the threshold. "He is real good in a great many
                        things."
                    "Don't forget to tell him so."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLI.
                    THE ENEMY.
                    TRITE sayings are often trite because they are so very
                        true. It is very trite and true also that many good plans have the fatal
                        defect of being adopted too late. If Roxy had begun a year or a week sooner
                        to prop Mark's house upon the sand with sympathetic kindness, it might have
                        escaped its disastrous fate. But it might have fallen sooner or later in
                        some way. Ruin is the only cure for ruin with some people; there is nothing
                        but the recoil that comes of disgrace that will save a man of vanity and
                        egotism. It is better that the ill-founded house should be utterly swept
                        away, perhaps. Patching will not save it.
                    Roxy's kindness to Mark on his return, and her sincere endeavor to enter into
                        sympathy with some of his aims and plans, only served to make him
                        uncomfortable. Mark's guilty consciousness wanted an opiateï¿½there is no
                        lethe like self-pity; if Roxy had been severe with him he might have stilled
                        his remorse with a Rip Van Winkle persuasion that his wife's austerity and
                        not his own laxity drove him into sin. If he could have persuaded himself
                        that he was an irresponsible waif, beaten upon and driven of domestic
                        storms, he might have been tolerably comfortable. He would have been quits
                        with Roxy. But now that she gave him appreciation of his gifts and praise of
                        his generous qualities, his old love for herï¿½the best passion of his
                        lifeï¿½revived and he felt a shame to have sinned against her.  Unconsciously he sometimes tried to provoke
                        her to speak the angry words which would have been a relief to him. But
                        though he could make her face flush with indignation, he could not draw from
                        her lips a reproach. The power of Roxy's persistent resolution was dominant
                        over her temper. She might cry her eyes out over his unkind words when he
                        was gone. But her vow kept guard over her lips. And she found a certain
                        peace in the struggle. She was born for hard tasks, and now as Bobo, grown
                        but little taller in these years, went about the yard with a hundred
                        chickens at his heels, he was sometimes surprised and delighted to meet Roxy
                        with a momentary gleam of the old gladness in her face: it was when she
                        thought she was really beginning to win back her husband to old states of
                        feeling.
                    Poor Bobo, to whom Roxy's face was as the face of God, was so pleased to get
                        a glimmer of sunshine from her that he would forthwith fill his pockets with
                        chicken feed and give his followers an extra treat, scattering the food so
                        that all should have some,ï¿½that all of them might be happy like himself.
                        He had improved much in mind under Roxy's care. He repeated long strings of
                        poetry with considerable appreciation of its meaning, and he could make
                        himself useful in many things. But he could never be taught to give his
                        bounty to dumb creatures otherwise than lavishly, and it was a most
                        thriftless, lazy and unscratching set of chickens that he fed. The corn in
                        the barn had to be kept out of his sight lest through his kindness the
                        horses should be foundered, or the cows die of colie, or the pigs grow fat
                        before the time of execution.
                    Mark grew less and less remorseful as the weeks passed by. He had, both from
                        nature and training, a great power of foregetting unpleasant thingsï¿½the
                        most dangerous of  mental tendencies. A
                        corrupt memory can defeat a tolerably vigorous conscience. But remorse does
                        not, generally come of successful and undetected sin. It was not David's
                        guilt that brought forth David's repentance, but the detection of his sin
                        and the disasters in which he was involved. As the autumn seared and browned
                        and grayed at last into winter, Mark came to something of his old
                        complacency. Forgetfulness filled the place of forgiveness; his prospects
                        for political promotion improved, and, more than all, Roxy had come to see
                        the error of her ways and was in active symathy with his aims, only
                        reserving the right to check and correct him in matters of detail. A man
                        cannot be very guilty with whom all goes so prosperously.
                    It was only when one day old Gideon Kirtley came to town and held a private
                        conversation with Mark that he was awakened from this forgetfulness of his
                        crime. Evil done and out of mind has a way of starting up thus in a man's
                        most peaceful and prosperous moments, as though Retribution were fond of
                        making her entrance dramatical. To have a crime against law and society
                        charged upon one just when the prize of ambition hangs low within reach is
                        the realization of the doom of Tantalus. It was easy to quiet the old man
                        for the present with money and fair promises, but Bonamy's security was
                        fairly shaken out of him. Ashamed and terror-stricken in Roxy's presence,
                        she found him sometimes moody and silent. He knew that Nancy would not be
                        easily kept still, and that she would especially delight to torment Roxy. He
                        must make a way of sending Nancy out of the country at all hazards, and he
                        was not sure that any inducement would be sufficient to get her away. She
                        was too fond of plaguing people to be willing to forego a particle of her
                        revenge. Money was no equivalent to her for the luxury of "getting
                        even."
                    
                    Mark knew that he must sooner or later have an ally in this desperate game of
                        concealment. But who should it be? His brother-in-law, Barlow, was his chief
                        political friend, and was very handy in fixing up bad eases. But then he
                        could not bear to have Amanda by any chance know his secret. And, moreover,
                        he distrusted Barlow. His brother-in-law was in business and politics a
                        rival, and he did not feel sure that, between Barlow's rivalry with himself
                        and Amanda's jealousy of Roxy, Ben might not think it best to push himself
                        for Congress. At all events, he did not choose that Barlow should have so
                        much leverage as the knowledge of his affair with the Kirtleys would give
                        him.
                    But there was no time to debate. One night in December, as Mark was crossing
                        the common toward his own house, he was confronted by Nancy herself. After a
                        great deal of preliminary abuse, she came out with:
                    "Now, what you goin' to do about it?"
                    "Whatever you say. If you keep still and don't make a fuss, I'll do whatever
                        you think I ought to do."
                    "W'y, you jest sell out and take me and slope, an' leave the Adams girl here.
                        I haint a-goin' to be laughed at by all the fools on Rocky Fork; they haint
                        no money, nor nothin 'll satisfy me but jest one thing. I'm goin' to git
                        square with her."
                    
                    Mark trembled at the fiery unreason of the creature. It was then a wild beast
                        into whose power he had put himself. In his first dash of dismay he felt all
                        the hopelessness of the case. Could one compromise with an infuriated
                        tiger?
                    "What has she done, poor thing, that you want to break her heart? "he said,
                        pointing on toward his own house, with a shudder.
                    "Her? What has she done? I had orto been thair.  She stole you, and I am straight on the road now to git even. I always
                        git even, I do. Break her heart, hey? Wouldn't I jest like to break it!
                        That's what I'm goin' to do. You hadn't no business to leave me an' take
                        her. I'm gittin' even weth her now. And you jest back out a inch from what I
                        say, and then I'll git even weth you, too, or my name haint Kirtley!"
                    "Well, Nancy," said Bonamy, seeing how useless it was to enrage her with
                        remonstrances, "you must give me time to see about things. I can't say what
                        I ought to do."
                    "Oh, they's time enough, but they's only jest one thing to do. Me an' you's
                        goin' to Texas this time, instid of her an' you. That's all they is of it. I
                        swore I'd be even weth her, and it'll soon be square, one way or t'other. Ef
                        you go weth me it'll be all square with her, and I'll be satisfied. Ef you
                        don't go weth me, I know more ways 'an one of gittin' square weth you, dog
                        on you! The ole man says I kin make you pony han'some, anyhow; and then he
                        says you wont be elected; an' then he says as he'll have you took up and
                        sent to penitentiary; and, besides all that, I've on'y got to give the nod
                        to Jim McGrowan. Jim's a dead shot, an' he'll foller you all over creation
                        weth that rifle o' his'n. But I haint got no gredge ag'in you, ef you do the
                        fa'r thing. But I'm even weth her, any ways you kin fix it."
                    She shook her fist a moment in gesticulation, as she turned away and started
                        toward the village. Mark heard her low whinny of exultation as he lost sight
                        of her form in the darkness. He thought of the old tales of men who had
                        bargained with the devil. Satan had come now to foreclose the bond, and it
                        was too late to rue his engagement.
                    There is no magnanimity in conscience; it is prone to  take us at disadvantage. It always wields its whip of
                        scorpious when the soul is scourged by outward circumstance. Mark found no
                        cushion of self-pity, no couch of self-conceit, on which to rest that night.
                        Half a dozen times he thought of confessing to Roxy. Her severity was
                        terrible to him; he shrunk from putting his crime in the light of her
                        conscience; but there were moments when it would have been a relief to hear
                        her sharpest condemnation. Any outward chastisement would have numbed a
                        little the inward remorse. On the other hand, he did not know what Roxy
                        would do in case he told her. Would she die of shame and grief? Would she
                        leave him? Would he ever be able to look her in the face again? There were
                        but two roads open,ï¿½to throw himself on the pity of Roxy and take her
                        counsel, or to seek advice of Lathers. The alternative was like one between
                        God and devil.
                    But Roxy's very nobleness held him back. He knew that in her there was no
                        weakness that could make her look with allowance on his sin. He could not
                        lay it bare to her.
                    There is always a question when a man has fallen low whether or not he will
                        rise again. It is a question of moral reaction. There is all the difference
                        in the world between Herod, whose terror-stricken conscience plunges him
                        ever deeper into crime, and David, who, out of the mire, climbs up the
                        ladder of bitter contrition, and heartbreak, and shame, into the clean
                        daylight once more. Mark's conscience smote him sore, but there was no
                        fifty-first psalm in him. His vanity made him a coward. His habit of
                        avoiding trouble made him evade the penance of a confession. After a
                        sleepless night and a moody morning, which threw Roxy into the utmost
                        consternation, he went to consult Lathers.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLII.
                    COUNSEL, AND THIS RESULT.
                    EVEN to Lathers, whose moral sense was not keen, Mark had
                        much shame in confessing his trouble and seeing the "I told you so" look on
                        the major's foxy face. But Bonamy was a little shocked at the unmoral view
                        Lathers took of this question as of every other. Major Lathers could
                        appreciate the embarrassment of a man who wished to avoid domestic jealousy
                        and unpleasantness; he could understand the annoyance of an aspirant for
                        Congress against whom an escapade of the sort might be used with over-pious
                        and sanctimonious people, and he could understand the danger of legal
                        difficulties, and above all the ugliness of the muzzle of Jim McGowan's
                        rifle, but Bonamy's remorse was a riddle to him. And Mark was not made easy
                        by the coolness with which Lathers "poohpoohed" all that; in his present
                        state of mind it reacted upon his awakened moral sense.
                    The sheriff was very willing to help Bonamy. It was convenient to have a
                        "purchase," as he would have said, on the coming Congressman. He undertook
                        to see the Kirtleys and by one device or another to keep them quiet. He
                        winked his eye at Mark and said he knew how to be on both sides of a
                        question. "He'd git the Kirtleys to make him their friend and he'd play that
                        part on Rocky Fork." This dishonesty Bonamy was glad to have on his side,
                        but the forebodings he had of failure made him wish that  he had courage to fall into the hands of the
                        severe Roxy rather than of the lax Lathers. His future position, sheltered
                        and delivered by Lathers's artifices and at the mercy of Lathers's fidelity,
                        was a galling one to him. Lathers had a good many other devices for
                        intimidating and conciliating the Kirtleys which he did not trust to Mark,
                        and he saw also some possibilities of serving himself. As to the domestic
                        difficulty, Bonamy had not asked his advice, but Lathers volunteered
                        counsel. He knew something about managing wives. It was well to have "a
                        purchase and the like." If you owe a man, it's a good thing to have a claim
                        to offset with.
                    Here he paused a while and looked inquiringly at Mark.
                    "Now of your wife's got a lien onto you, she's goin' to use it, an' that
                        gives her the upper hand, and the like. And it's bad to have the ole woman
                        have the upper hand, you see. It deranges things, you know."
                    Here another pause and a look at Mark that provoked him more that he dared to
                        show. What right had Lathers or such as he to discuss Roxy? Who had given
                        him this freedom? Here came again conscience, cruel and ever waiting its
                        advantage. Who indeed, but Mark himself, had thus made his domestic life
                        free to the trampling hoofs of Tom Lathers? Roxy was henceforth an element
                        that Lathers, as Mark's private adviser, might weigh and consider. It made
                        Bonamy grind his teeth with remorse and wounded pride that Roxy should be
                        alluded to at all. But a new and dreadful vision opened to him. If he should
                        lose the support of Lathers, Roxy's name might become common and conspicuous
                        to every street loafer in Luzerne.
                    "Now," resumed Lathers, "I 'low you've got an offset."
                    
                    "What do you mean?" asked Mark, trying to keep his voice down to a peaceful
                        pitch.
                    Lathers was not in haste to reply. He called Bonamy's attention to the fact
                        that he lived nearly opposite to Lefaure's. Then he stopped. But Mark did
                        not trust himself to ask a question, so that Lathers was forced to proceed
                        on his own motion.
                    "Well, the day after you started to Republican meeting-house, last September,
                        I see Mrs. Bonamy go in at Lefaure's."
                    "Well, what of that?" said Mark, with his teeth shut tight.
                    "Well, I see her shakin' hands with Whittaker when she come out the door.
                        There wa'n't no one with him when he told her good-bye. That's a start for
                        an offset."
                    Mark swore a savage oath and got to his feet.
                    "Lathers, you are a brute. You're a spy and a tattler! My wife's badly off
                        married to me, God knows. But to have you say a word against herï¿½" and here Bonamy burst into another fit of swearing.
                    "Purty lively cussin', that, fer a missionary an' the like, Mark," sneered
                        the major. "Ef I'd 'a' knowed you was on t'other side, sonny, I wouldn't 'a'
                        la'nched out into this case. You can settle weth the Kirtleys yerself,
                        liker'n not. I think I'll give it up. I don't like to be swore at that
                        a-way. I haint accustomed to it, and my constitution's weakened by fever 'n'
                        ager late years, so as I can't stand quite so much swearin' at as I could
                        wunst."
                    "I am sorry, Major; I didn't mean to quarrel with you, but I lost my temper.
                        Only don't let's say any more about my wife. This thing 'll kill her. You've
                        got to help me out. I can't get on without you." Abject fear of exposure had
                        made Mark a coward in the presence of the man into whose power he had put
                        himself.
                    
                    The major looked pityingly at Bonamy, who sat down again, as he might have
                        looked on a simpleton. He accepted the apology, and during the rest of the
                        interview he kept off the question of domestic management. However, he was
                        nettled by Bonamy's outburst, and when the latter had gone, he said to
                        himself:
                    "May be I'll take a notion to make him swear worse when I'm done. May be I'll
                        learn him some manners. I've got the say about Congressman and the like,
                        this time. Bonamy's too young. The law'll barely let him in. And I don't
                        like to be called a brute, and a tattler, and the like, and a spy, though I
                        do keep my eyes peeled as well as the next man. Nobody knows what
                        information may turn out to be valooable. Mark 'll cuss; but he'll think
                        about my words, and he'll take a turn, for all his high tone. That high
                        tone's all they is left of the missionary fever, I 'low. Though now, to be
                            shor- the ole colonel was powerful high-toned on some
                        sides, and powerful low-toned on others. Runs in the blood like, may
                        be."
                    As for Bonamy, now that he felt relieved by the intervention of the shrewd
                        Lathers in the affair, he became a little more easy in regard to the result.
                        He even thought of himself with pity, as a man driven by evil circumstances.
                        If Roxy hadn't have been cross, he might have got along.
                    But he also came to be more and more troubled, as the days went by, with what
                        Lathers had said about Roxy. There was nothing strange about her going up to
                        Lefaure's, though since her marriage the visiting had, by mutual consent,
                        been done chiefly by Twonnet. What troubled Mark is that his wife had gone
                        while he was away, and immï¿½ after a very bitter quarrel
                        between them. If what Lathers had told him were true, she had probably held
                        a consultation with Whittaker alone. There 
                        had been an unaccountable change in her manner toward him on his return.
                        What mystery was there between Roxy and her former lover? In his heart Mark
                        did not suspect her of wrong; but in his haunted and evil condition of mind
                        everything seemed to wear a look inimical to him. He hated to think of
                        Whittaker as in possible contrast with himself in Roxy's mind. Had Roxy
                        taken to conferences with people about him? Sometimes he was vaguely afraid;
                        sometimes vaguely jealous; sometimes heartily ashamed of both feelings. It
                        resulted from this complexity and from his own remorseful restlessness and
                        irritability, that he treated Roxy often with harshness, and again with the
                        utmost deference. Sometimes she caught him watching her furtively, as though
                        seeking to penetrate some mystery.
                    Puzzling herself day and night to guess out the cause of her husband's
                        strange capriciousness, Roxy invented every possible hypothesis about the
                        state of his affairs; but in none of them could she find a reason for the
                        concealment from her of the cause of his trouble. If he had gambling debts,
                        she thought, he might be secretive; but then he did not seem to lack money.
                        His political prospects were good; and, had the case been otherwise, she
                        felt sure, from what she knew of the quick reactions of Mark's mercurial
                        temperament, that a chance for defeat would not disturb him so much.
                        Sometimes the shadow of the dark Kirtley girl troubled her thoughts; but she
                        had heard nothing of that affair since the day her father-in-law had twitted
                        Mark with it, and it had receded into the background, as a thing unreal or
                        insignificant.
                    At last something in Mark's manner led her to think that she might herself be
                        the cause of his trouble. Clearly, she was making no perceptible headway in
                        the great purpose  to which she had given
                        herself. There were signs that Mark's habits were not growing better, but
                        worse. She determined at last to make a bold attack.
                    So one night, when Mark came home, he found her sitting alone by the fire,
                        waiting for him. She had everything arranged for his comfort, and Bonamy was
                        angry, because he knew that she would be disappointed in her hope of winning
                        him to cheerfulness. He had just heard from Lathers in regard to the
                        progress of the Kirtley business; and, while Lathers had gained delay, he
                        gave Mark little hope of anything but a respite. So the husband gloomily sat
                        down in the rocking-chair set for him, and looked into the fire, answering
                        the wife's questions moodily, saying he was worried, didn't want to talk
                        business at home, and wished she wouldn't ask any more questions. This last
                        was spoken somewhat tartly.
                    "But, Mark, we can't go on living this way. For two or three months you've
                        been troubled about something. I've been waiting for your own time to tell
                        me. Now, I can't stand it any longer. Wont you tell me now?"
                    There came a sudden impulse to Bonamy to seize this chance to begin the right
                        course at all costs, by a frank confession. But the way of contritionï¿½the
                        hard road back out of this tangled and briery maze of wrong-doingï¿½seemed
                        so long and severe! All the weakness engendered by a life-long habit of
                        self-indulgence and the evasion of unpleasant tasks came over him. He said
                        to himself that he could not. It might kill her to hear it. What would be
                        the good, anyhow?
                    The whole course of thinking was swift and momentary. He only answered to her
                        question, "No."
                    To prevent further questioning, he went to bed; and, worn by excitement and
                        exhausted from previous sleep-lessness,  he
                        fell into a sleep, from which he awoke at daylight to find that Roxy had not
                        been in bed. When he had dressed and returned to the sitting-room, he found
                        her sitting in her chair, where he had left her.
                    Something in the terrible resoluteness of his wife made Bonamy afraid. If she
                        could spend the night waiting for him to awake and answer her query, what
                        might she not do if she understood just how bad he had been? His sin did not
                        seem to him quite so black after the physical refreshment of a night of
                        sleep; and he easily persuaded himself that, for Roxy's own sake, it was
                        necessary to conceal his guilt. Moreover, this solemn and awful
                        determination of Roxy's to find out, had awakened his old combative
                        stubbornness. He might yield and tell her; but it must be a spontaneous
                        yielding. She must not carry the point by siege.
                    Nothing was said between them until after breakfast when Roxy again urged her
                        plea so persistently that only Mark's capacity for blind resistance in a
                        matter where his commbativeness was excited, kept him back from telling her
                        the whole story. This ugly state of resistance made him dwell now on his
                        dislike of Roxy's private conference with Whittaker. At last he rose to
                        go.
                    "Tell me one thing, Mark. Have I done anything that troubles you?" She said
                        this as she stood between him and the door. Mark saw a way of present escape
                        from her inquiries about his mental trouble, and present escape was the one
                        thing that his indolent moral nature ever chose.
                    "Yes," he answered.
                    "Now you must tell me what it is. I don't want to do wrong."
                    "I don't want you to do things that make people talk about you."
                    
                    Roxy looked at him in pain and perplexity.
                    "Did you go to see Whittaker last fall while I was gone?"
                    Roxy was very loth to say anything about this interview to Mark, so she
                        answered evasively:
                    "I walked up with Twonnet and I saw Mr. Whittaker. Who told you about
                        it?"
                    "That doesn't matter." And Mark was now full of suspicion of something
                        inimical to himself in the interview between Roxy and Whittaker. Why should
                        she evade in this way? Why ask in a startled voice, "Who told you?" He found
                        himself in the position of accuser instead of accused, though with a lurking
                        sense of his own hypocrisy.
                    "Did you go to Lefaure's to see Whittaker? Did you hold a private interview
                        with him?"
                    "Mark, I am willing, since you ask it, to tell you all about that matter,
                        though I would rather you hadn't known about it. But you mustn't ask in that
                        tone. You know, Mark Bonamy,"ï¿½and here she straightened up while her eyes
                        glowed,ï¿½"that I did not go there for any evil purpose. You must grant that
                        or I will never answer your questions." It was the first time in months that
                        Roxy's temper had broken forth, and now it was in power and resolute purpose
                        that it came out and not in weakness.
                    Mark was seized with a sudden qualm of conscience. He looked in her pure face
                        full of indignation and said:
                    "Of course, Roxy, I know you are all right. But what the mischief did you go
                        for, just when you and I had fallen out?"
                    "I will tell you. I had been very cross to you. I felt sure I had done wrong.
                        I went and asked Mr. Whittaker's advice." She spoke slowly and with
                        precision.
                    "Asked advice of your old lover about your family affairs?"
                    
                    "Have you noticed any improvement in my temper since? If you have it's all
                        owing to his advice."
                    "Couldn't you be good-tempered without telling him that we
                        had quarreled? Now I don't like you discussing me with anybody."
                    "I didn't say one word about you except to speak well of you, nor did he say
                        anything except in praise of you."
                    "What did you tell him?"
                    "I told him I had been bad and cross and unsympathetic and I was afraid I
                        should do you harm."
                    "What good could come of confessing to him?"
                    "I had a point of conscience, if you must know; I thought that your pursuits
                        were not soï¿½soï¿½exactly right, as they ought to be. I was afraid that if
                        I did enter into sympathy with your worldly ambition I should compromise my
                        religious principles. Mr. Whittaker removed my scruples and taught me
                        better."
                    "I think you ought to ask advice of your husband." Mark's conscience smote
                        him at this point. "I have heard your call at Lefaure's remarked on."
                    Roxy pressed her lips together and was silent.
                    "At least, Mark, you'll admit that I've changed for the better since I talked
                        with Mr. Whittaker."
                    "I wish to God in heaven you'd changed a little sooner. It would have been
                        better for both of us."
                    These words were spoken as though they were wrung out of him. Then to avoid
                        further questions he left the house abruptly.
                    Roxy sat and cried and puzzled her wits more and more to guess what this last
                        remark could mean. But when Mark came back he resented all inquiries and his
                        wife waited out the long days and nights in inactivity and terror of she
                        knew not what.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIII.
                    JIM'S RIFLE.
                    MAKING one's fortune in political life is gambling upon a
                        series of ifs. If Henry Clay or some other Whig should be elected president,
                        reasoned Lathers, and if there should be a Whig Congressman from the
                        district, he would have great influence in distributing the patronage for
                        Luzerne County. If the Congressman should be from one of the other counties
                        in the district, and if Lathers could stand his chief friend in Luzerne
                        County, the major felt sure that his political importance would be greatly
                        increased. But if Bonamy should go to Congress Lathers would be second or
                        third instead of first in his own county.
                    Lathers knew well that a scandal of the sort to which Bonamy was liable might
                        not of itself be sufficient to defeat a candidate for Congress. The moral
                        standard of voters away back in the Forties was lower than it is now in the
                        Seventies, and there is even yet room for it to advance by the time we come
                        to the Nineties. But if the Kirtley matter could be kept carefully
                        suppressed until about the time of the session of the nominating caucus, he
                        could then let loose Nancy's suit for seduction and turn the close contest
                        against Mark by criminal proccedings and the scandal of an arrest. In the
                        whole matter he would play the rï¿½le of Mark's friend and defender, and in
                        the confusion of defeat he would be able to stampede enough votes to
                        Bonamy's chief competitor, Paddock of 
                        Florence County, to nominate him. He had already made interest with Paddock.
                        But the whole thing must be kept secret lest the Luzerne County men should
                        have time to bring forward some other man and so defeat the plan. For the
                        "geographical argument" was in favor of Luzerne County. It was the "turn" of
                        the south-western portion of the district to name the man. And the
                        geographical argument is a very weighty one if it happens to be on your
                        side. If it is in favor of the other man you can insist that fitness is the
                        only thing.
                    If Lathers could have been sure of Bonamy's election, he would not have
                        proposed this desertion. But in such a contest as the one now raging over
                        the nomination for Congress, the weaker candidates are prone to make common
                        cause against the foremost one, so that by the time the convention meets to
                        nominate, the bitter combined opposition renders his defeat certain. Mark,
                        as the leading man, had to run this risk. Then, too, he was barely within
                        legal age, and his youth was likely to be urged against him. And even if he
                        should secure the nomination, the Kirtley scandal and the consequent
                        domestic difficulties could not be kept secret until the election should be
                        over, and it might defeat Bonamy by turning his own county against him. At
                        the same time, Major Lathers kept his eyes open for anything that might turn
                        up, and the like, and made all sorts of mental reservations in taking his
                        resolution to go for Paddock. For himself, he said, he was like Jacob's coat
                        of many colorsï¿½all things to all men that he might win the game, and the
                        like.
                    In order to keep Mark's political strength up to its full measure for the
                        present, Lathers Kept Nancy quiet by holding out the most delusive hopes. He
                        represented himself as her friend in the case. He told her that he had  extorted from Mark solemn promises to elope
                        with her as soon as he could get his affairs arranged. Bonamy was even now
                        selling off property secretly, so that he could start for Texas with Nancy
                        in June. It is the evil of evil affairs that agents bad enough for bad
                        business are too bad to be trustworthy.
                    Lathers had impressed on Nancy the necessity for secrecy. But there is a
                        limit to the capacity for secrecy. Nancy could not long forego her love of
                        tormenting Jim MeGowan. Whenever the poor follow lifted his head in a faint
                        hope of winning her regard, she pounced upon him as a cat does upon a shaken
                        mouse that dares to move but feebly again. Seeing that Nancy had married
                        nobody else, Jim reasoned that, since in the nature of things she must needs
                        marry somebody, he would be the one. "She'll git done foolin' some day," he
                        said. Having expressed himself to this effect to Nancy, as she sat frowning
                        at him one day,ï¿½it was now the last of April,ï¿½she came out with:
                    "Thunder an' blazes, Jim! I'm a-goin' to do a heap sight better'n that.
                    "Where? How?" exclaimed Jim startled.
                    "You'll know afore long. When you come to Texas some day, you'll find me in a
                        fine house, somebody. I wont look at you then, dogged ef I
                        will."
                    "W'y, Nance, how you talk! Sence Bonamy got married they haint no rich feller
                        about that your'e like to git. You wouldn't run off weth another women's
                        husband, I 'low," and Jim laughed a rude laugh at the improbability of the
                        thing. The laugh stung Nancy.
                    "Wouldn't I? Confound you, Jim, d'you think I'm a fool to be fooled with?
                        I'll show girls how they kin take a beau from me, and I'll larn folks to
                        fool weth me. You'll  know more'n you do now
                        when you're a leetle older, may be."
                    This speech and the dare-devil tone set McGowan wild, as it was meant to.
                        Puzzling himself to guess out what was behind the threat, there came into
                        his mind a jealous suspicion of the true state of the case. He went to
                        Luzerne the next day, and, by dint of pretending to know the facts, he
                        wormed them out of Haz Kirtley. That very night, with the borderer's
                        disregard for law and life, he loaded his rifle with a heavy charge of
                        powder, cut his patching with extreme care, selected a bullet of good form
                        and rammed it down solidly, smote the stock of the gun with his hand to
                        bring the powder well down into the tube, and selected a good cap. He 'lowed
                        that air would fetch things, he said.
                    With this well-loaded rifle he waited that night for Mark's late return to
                        his home. He crept along in the shadows of the houses in Luzerne, intending
                        to shoot Bonamy in the street. His horse was saddled and tied to the
                        hitching-rail at the public square. There was not a light anywhere to be
                        seen, except one from an upper window on the opposite side of the square. A
                        conference with Lathers detained Mark very late. Even McGowan grew nervous
                        with his long, murderous watch for his victim. At last he heard steps coming
                        in the darkness under the locusts on the other side of the street. He leaned
                        back close to the fence, slowly cocked his gun, and waited for Mark to come
                        out of the shadow of the young foliage of the trees into the light, so that
                        his unerring aim might bring him down. But when the figure emerged into the
                        starlight, it proved to be that of a white-haired, well-dressed old man,
                        walking uneasily and peering to the right and left. When the old man caught
                        sight of McGowan  and his gun on the other
                        side, he crossed the street to him, and said sternly:
                    "What's this? What are you standing here for at this time o' night with that
                        rifle for?"
                    "You'd 'a' found out, may be, ef I hadn't 'a' seed jest in time that you
                        wuzn't the man." Here McGowan slowly lowered the hammer of his rifle. "I'm
                        after a man that's ruined my girl, and that's goin' off to Texas weth her.
                        Leastwise, he means to; but I mean to send him somewheres else. Stand out of
                        the way! I'm looking fer him every minute. And when I see him they'll be a
                        case fer the coroner."
                    "Young man,"ï¿½the old man's voice was quivering,ï¿½"thirty years ago I
                        killed a man right out there close to where the pump stands. He struck me
                        with a whip, and I was young and proud. I shot him. O God.! if I'd only
                        thought what I was doing!"
                    "Is your name White?" asked McGowan with a shudder.
                    "Yes, everybody knows about me, I suppose. I am like Cain. That's my candle
                        there in the window. I can't sleep in the dark. Sometimes I can't sleep at
                        all. I can see Bob Anderson as I saw the poor fellow lying there thirty
                        years ago. If you want to be in hell all the rest of your life, just shoot a
                        man to-night."
                    This staggered Jim a little, but a moment later, swearing under his breath,
                        he raised his gun to shoot. Mark, attracted by the sound of voices, was
                        crossing the street to the two men. The old man pushed up the gun and kept
                        on warning Jim.
                    "What's this?" asked Mark.
                    "It's me. Come to settle up with you about that matter of Nancy Kirtley. I'm
                        goin' to blow your infernal brains out."
                    
                    The old man kept putting himself in the way of McGowan and urging Mark to run
                        away. But Bonamy had always been a man of almost reckless physical courage;
                        to flee was not possible to him, and now, tired and worn with the struggle
                        of good and bad in himself, he had a desperate feeling that it would be a
                        service to him if somebody would relieve him of his life.
                    "Take care, Mr. White," he said. "Get out of the way and let him shoot. I
                        wish to God he would. Shoot, Jim, shoot. I deserve it. I would like to die
                        right here, and get done with this whole infernal business and this infernal
                        old world."
                    "You wont shoot an unresisting man," urged the old man. "You'll be a coward
                        and a murderer if you do. You'll be worse than I am and you'll have more
                        hell than I've got."
                    "Iï¿½Iï¿½" said Jim, letting his gun down and turning away, "I can't quite
                        shoot a feller down in cold blood that acts that away. He's in my power."
                        Then he stopped. "But just looky here, Mark Bonamy, you infernal scoundrel,
                        you'd ort to die like a dog, an' you jest dare to run off with Nancy and I
                            will kill you both, so help me God." And Jim proceeded
                        to fire off all the curses which the Rocky Fork dialect could afford.
                    "I never had any notion of running off with her."
                    "You lie. She says you told Lathers so. I've, got a mind to shoot you fer
                        lyin' to me."
                    "I didn't lie. Shoot, if you want to. It would be a dreadful waste of powder
                        though. I'm not worth the charge in your gun."
                    Irresolutely McGowan moved off, stopping now and then to look back while he
                        felt-of his gun ominously. At last he mounted his horse and slowly rode
                        away.
                    
                    
                        "SHOOT! JIM, SHOOT!
                    
                    
                    "Don't say anything about this matter, Mr. White," said Mark as he saw the
                        last of his enemy. "I'm 'most sorry he didn't shoot."
                    The old man moved off without reply, only saying to himself, "I sha'n't sleep
                        a wink to-night."
                    It is commonly said that only a virtuous man is at peace with himself. In
                        truth there are two ways to a quiet conscience, that of entire goodness and
                        that of utter badness. As the first is never quite achieved, it is only the
                        wholly bad man who has no trouble with the moralities. If peace of
                        conscience were the main end of life, the dead conscience capable of telling
                        no tales were best. The trouble with Bonamy, who now went home wretched
                        enough, was that he was not bad enough. Many a man of fair outward seeming
                        would have taken Mark's guilty consciousness easily. Bonamy's moral sense
                        was not dominant, nor was it steady enough to be an available guide. Like
                        all his impulses, it was subject to the law of his temperament and acted
                        intensely but intermittently. But all the more for its very lack of
                        continuity was it a tormentor when aroused by an outward circumstance, like
                        Roxy's suffering face or an encounter such as this with McGowan.
                    Mark could face the muzzle of a rifle, but not exposure. And now the dread of
                        disgrace and of Roxy's execration haunted him and made his wrong doing seem
                        blacker than ever. There came to him the desperate temptation to seek relief
                        by the road to utter badness. Why not run off either with or without Nancy,
                        and let the world of Luzerne drop away from his life? The illusive notion
                        that he could begin life over again and do better seized him. But here again
                        the contradictions of his nature held him back. He was neither bad enough
                        nor good enough to take either way out.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIV.
                    A BREAK.
                    EVENTS now took their inevitable course. Precautions of
                        Mark and precautions of Lathers were alike in vain.
                    McGowan did not say much to Nancy about the rifle when he saw her early the
                        next morning. But he told her that Bonamy had denied all intention of going
                        to Texas with her. What could Nancy do but fly in a passion and suggest that
                        Jim should mind his own business and be gone? He retorted with a sneer that
                        nobody of any sense would believe an old fox like Lathers, who wanted to get
                        Mark elected. Whereupon Nancy told him he was a fool and that he must clear
                        out. But the suspicion once fastened in her mind that Major Lathers "might
                        be a-foolin" weth her" set Nancy wild with anger. Gossips of Rocky Fork who
                        had long hated Nancy for her beauty and her arrogance were even now
                        whispering about her. She felt already the coming of the contempt she should
                        have to suffer if her disgrace should become known. She would be shut out of
                        good society.
                    So she started to town at once. She would see Lathers and Bonamy together and
                        have things made right. Nothing was so dreadful a blow to her self-love as
                        this suspicion that she had been duped.
                    When McGowan heard that she had started to Luzerne, his jealous and
                        vindictive suspicions were roused again. He took his rifle once more off the
                        wall-hooks and followed,  resolved to find out
                        what this last move might mean, and to be prepared to square the account at
                        any moment.
                    In the interview of the night before, Lathers had extorted from the reluctant
                        Mark a certificate of his plenipotentiary authority in the Kirtley matter.
                        This was to be shown to any of the family who could read it, and used as a
                        means of keeping Nancy quiet. On the morning after the encounter with
                        McGowan, Mark went early to see the major, telling him in despair that the
                        matter was "as good as out." But the sheriff insisted that affairs were by
                        no means desperate, and that, in sheer self-defense, Mark must proceed with
                        his campaign as though nothing had happened. Bonamy had an appointment to go
                        to Versailles for consultation over the political situation, and he must go.
                        Lathers would 'tend to things and the like.
                    Roxy's look of mute appeal to Mark, as he departed that morning, disturbed
                        him more than ever. She hardly ever said anything to him now. She had grown
                        pale and wan waiting for him to speak of somethingï¿½she knew not what. Of
                        late she almost feared to hear this secret that weighed so upon him. Now he
                        only glanced furtively at her rigid face, and then, turning abruptly away
                        without looking at her again, he said:
                    "I don't know when I'll be back."
                    It was a rude parting. No other word of farewell. He did not even regard her
                        as he brushed past her in the porch, giving some direction to the old negro,
                        Bob, about the horse. How could Roxy know that it was the very volcano of
                        feeling within that made it impossible for Mark to say more, or to look in
                        her face the second time? How could she understand that it was not
                        deliberate neglect?  She did not weep. Her
                        heart was stone dead within her.
                    When Mark had gone, Bobo stood gazing wistfully at her face. He went up to
                        her, ran his fingers up and down her cheeks coaxingly, and said, "Dear
                        Roxy,ï¿½dear Roxy feels bad."
                    In an instant Roxy folded the child-like youth in her arms.
                    
                        "You love me, poor boy, don't you?"
                    Then she smiled faintly on him as she relaxed her hold, and Bobo straightway
                        fed the chickens all the wheat they could eat. But Roxy sat down, with her
                        hands in her lap, and looked steadfastly out of the window at the great,
                        black flocks of wild pigeons, flying by millions upon millions across the
                        river, in swarms stretching for miles up and down the valley. Every year she
                        had watched the mysterious flights to and fro of these birds, that darken
                        the sky with their countless wings. Now she looked steadfastly at them,
                        appearing as by magic out of the southern horizon over the Kentucky hills.
                        The sight stirred again her memories of the dreams and plans of the girl
                        Roxy, and she saw her own child-life pass before her, while she looked on as
                        some one else. Then she remembered that it was May-day. The children would
                        be going to Tardy's Thicket this morning. What armfuls of bright flowers she
                        had gathered when she was a girl! She saw herself again, on the return,
                        stopping on top of a grassy hill that overlooked the town. The vision of the
                        merry song-plays, "Ring around the rosy," and "Oats, peas, beans, and barley
                        grows;" came up before her again. She saw herself chosen as "true love," now
                        by this lad and then by that one, while she in turn made her choice, as they
                        danced the old game again on the grass-green hill-top.  As it all floated before her, she did not feel sorrow,
                        regret, anything. How can one feel when one's heart is stone dead?
                    Mark Bonamy rode out through the town and off over Lindley's Hill. He marked
                        the children gathering in groups to start for Tardy's Thicket. A dim
                        remembrance of the freshness of his own childhood swept over him, like a
                        breeze that starts moist and fresh across an arid desert, but that
                        immediately becomes dry and hot and parching. For what is May-day to him out
                        of whose life all the freshness and innocence of childhood is clean gone?
                        The bluebirds sang their softest love-songs on the top of the slanting
                        stakes in the rail-fences by the road-side, boasting in their happy singing
                        of the blue eggs in the round hole where they had built their nests. The
                        cat-birds sang so as almost to rival their first cousins, the mocking-birds;
                        the red-bird's rich voice was heard on every hand. The wild pigeons flew
                        over Mark's head in myriads, and when he was on a hill-top they almost
                        touched him with their whirring wings. But all the joy of this day mocked at
                        Bonamy. He was deaf and blind. The face of his wife, pale, rigid, but
                        beseeching, followed him. The dread of disgrace mingled with his remorse.
                        For miles and miles he rode, over hills and through hollows clad in the new
                        leaves of oak and hickory and maple, fringed with flowers of the dogwood and
                        redbud and the thorny red-haw; for miles he rode through flat lands covered
                        with beech, past "branches," whose noisy waters refreshed the roots of
                        sycamores; and for other miles he went through the Scotch settlement, along
                        lanes bordered by blossoming elder-bushes with fence-corners in green and
                        gold, of grass land dandelion, and in sight of sweet fields of dark-green
                        wheat. But he saw nothing but the face of the heartbroken  Roxy. He hated the green earth and the blue
                        sky in his heart; he hated most of all himself.
                    At last, when full twenty miles from home, he stopped by the roadside;
                        exhausted by the strain of emotion he dismounted, and sat upon a log,
                        holding the bridle in his hand while the horse browsed on the grass and
                        bushes. Why go on? What did he care for a consultation with small
                        politicians at Versailles? What did it matter whether he should go to
                        Congress or not? The misery in him had killed the ambition. How can hope and
                        perdition dwell together?
                    The combativeness of his temperament had always inclined him to face physical
                        peril, never to flee from it. A sudden impulse, like that of fierce physical
                        courage, seized him now to ride back to Luzerue, to confess to Roxy, to
                        resign all thought of election to Congress, to make the best settlement he
                        could with Nancy, and then to take the consequences. The daring and
                        desperate thought was like the suicidal reï¿½ction of a man who is driven
                        frantic by danger,ï¿½he will kill himself to escape the dread of death.
                    He dropped the horse's bridle and walked to and fro across the road a few
                        times. But deliberation had become impossible. He turned and seized the
                        bridal again, sprang into the saddle and rode eagerly back over the road he
                        had come.
                    At last the long lane had turned.
                    And ever as he spurred his horse up over hills and down into rocky glens he
                        was inwardly smitten for his delay in turning.
                    Did he pray now that he was riding back toward something better? No. But he
                        swore. He cursed himself, he cursed the crime that had blackened his life,
                        he cursed  Nancy, he cursed Lathers, he cursed
                        the world. He could have blasphemed the Almighty God himself. And yet for
                        all his maledictions he was a better man even as he rode. For have ye not
                        read how the devil, when he leaveth a man, casteth him down and rendeth him
                        sore? And curses are often but the cry of the soul maddened by the scourge
                        of conscience.
                    When it was yet mid-afternoon there were five more hilly miles for Bonamy to
                        ride. Would he reach home in time to be the first to tell Roxy the evil
                        story? The thought that she might hear it from some one else, and that so
                        his confession might be forestalled, almost crazed him, and he swore and
                        drove his tired horse on, up hill and down, until at last he came into the
                        town with the horse foaming with sweat. It seemed to him that the people
                        looked at him strangely. Then he remembered that his imagination was
                        excited. But what were the people standing in the doors of stores and coming
                        to the windows for? Why did they seem to recognize him in a surprised way?
                        Perhaps, after all, they only wondered because his horse was dripping with
                        sweat.
                    As he passed Lathers' office, that worthy chevalier, standing chewing
                        meditatively in the door, started with surprise at sight of Bonamy and
                        rushed out to him calling, "Mark, Mark!"
                    But Mark only swore and waved him off impatiently, riding straight onward
                        toward the blossoming apple-trees and waving Lombardies of his own
                        place.
                    And Lathers, whose discomfiture had been witnessed by the crowd on the street
                        corner, went back to his office and shut the door muttering that the devil
                        and the like was let loose all around to-day.
                    "Ef he wants to git shot that's his road," he added.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLV.
                    COMING DARKNESS.
                    JIM MC GOWAN had
                        followed Nancy closely all the way to town. He kept so far behind that she
                        did not see him, but at every hill-top he could see her. He watched her turn
                        into the cabin of her brother Haz. Then he went to Dixon's corner and took a
                        drink. After firing himself with yet other drinks he sallied out and on his
                        way to a convenient post of observation he had the luck to meet Mother
                        Tartrum looking about for a bit of news as eagerly as the early bird seeks a
                        worm.
                    "Mr. McGowan, Mr. McGowan," shricked the old lady, "what's the news? How do
                        things get on out at Rocky Fork? Are you married yet?
                    "No", said Jim.
                    "That's curious. You brought me some wood two years ago and we talked about
                        Mark Bonamy. He didn't go to Texas after all. He's tryin' to get to
                        Congress. But they do say he aint very happy with his wife. I don't know
                        what's the matter. I expect she's high tempered. These awful good people are
                        generally highty-tighty at home."
                    "I'd be high tempered, too, ef I was Bonamy's wife. I'd choke him, blame
                        him."
                    "Laws, now! You don't say. Do you think he's bad to her?"
                    "I wish I could get a good chance at him some time weth my rifle."
                    
                    "Oh, my!" And with this Mother Tartrum fell to work with the eagerness of a
                        gold miner who has "struck it rich," or a reporter who scents a "beat." Here
                        was a lead worth the working, for Jim's whisky had made him communicative
                        and he told Mother Tartrum all he knew. When she was sure she had all his
                        information she dropped off like a satisfied leech. She was now eager to
                        tell what she had heard, and above all to tell it where it would make the
                        most sensation, so that she might also have the sensation, to talk about. So
                        she went straight to Roxy's aunt, Mrs. Hanks, only scattering morsels of
                        intelligence at two places on her road, as I have seen travelers drop sparks
                        of fire into dry prairie-grass, and pass on, sure that a widespread
                        conflagration would go on long after they were out of sight of it.
                    While Mother Tartrum was marching to the pleasant task of humbling the pride
                        of Mrs. Hanks, Nancy Kirtley, unconscious that she was watched by Jim
                        McGowan, was moving directly on Major Lathers.
                    You've been a-foolin' weth me!" she began. Lathers was very bland and
                        persuasive in his replies; but he could not remove from Nancy's mind the
                        awful suspicion that she had been duped. She'd heerd that Mark denied
                        "teetotal" that he had made any promise of departure with her for
                        Texas,ï¿½then the promised land of all absconding people. She shook her fist
                        in Lathers's face. "You jest fool weth me onst, and you'll be sorry for it,"
                        she cried. As a last resort, Lathers read to her the paper that Mark had
                        written the night before.
                    "Lemme see that air," said the girl.
                    "You can't read it," and Lathers drew back.
                    "I kin tell ef it's his'n. Ef you don't gin it to me now, I'll blow the whole
                        thing all over town in an hour."
                    
                    Lathers held it so she could see it.
                    "You're afraid to trust me take holt of it, air you? Never mind; I come to
                        town to git even."
                    "Oh, take it and look at it," he said.
                    With a jerk Nancy took it and shoved it into her pocket. In vain Lathers
                        coaxed and threatened. She backed toward the door.
                    "I'll I'arn folks to fool weth Nance Kirtley, dogged ef I don't," and with a
                        sudden spring she swung the door wide and passed into the open air. "Now,
                        I'm agoin' to have this read, an' ef I find it aint Mark Bonamy's writin',
                        or thet you're foolin' weth me anyways, then I'll take the other way of
                        gittin' even. Where's Bonamy?"
                    "He's gone out of town this morning; and if you don't give back that paper
                        I'll have you took up and the like."
                    Lathers spoke from the door of his office, and Nancy, fearing that the
                        sheriff would carry out his threat, started off hurriedly, but with
                        hesitation and indecision. First she walked one way, then another, as though
                        conflicting inclinations perpetually broke her resolutions. Once she had
                        admitted suspicion, suspicion easily pervaded a mind so turbid as hers.
                        Bonamy was probably getting ready to go off without her. That was why he did
                        not see her himself. She did not believe he was out of the town. It was all
                        a ruse, and he would take his wife and run away from Nancy's persecutions.
                        If that were so, she would better go to Roxy herself, and "have it out with
                        her." She would "show them whether they'd play gum games on her." She would
                        find out from Roxy what was the matter, and then she would know how to "git
                        even" with them all. For her expanding and suspicious resentment now
                        included Lathers also as one of the people in a conspiracy to thwart
                        her.
                    
                    
                        LATHERS HELD IT SO SHE COULD SEE IT.
                    
                    
                    She didn't know, however, whether to follow this impulse to go to Roxy or
                        not. But she was seized with a sudden return of the terror with which the
                        elder Bonamy had inspired her. She had a vague notion that the sheriff was
                        after her. He might put her in jail, and then Mark could go off before she
                        could get out. She must strike her worst blow at once.
                    Impelled thus by fear and revenge, the prey to conflicting passions that
                        found no check either from her understanding or her will, she hurried toward
                        the Bonamy house, clutching the writing she had captured from the sheriff,
                        who, for his part, was at his wits' end.
                    Nancy came to the large gate of the Bonamy place, and fell back a moment in
                        awe. Like other people of vulgar minds, she had great reverence for the
                        externals of life, and the long rows of trim poplars back of the gate
                        overawed her rustic mind. To assail the mistress of such a place was
                        appalling.
                    While she hesitated, Twonnet passed her and went in at the gate.
                    "I don't want to go in while that girl's thar," she said. So she went down
                        the road a little way, and climbed over the fence into a vineyard. Crouching
                        under the shelter of the vines, now pretty well in leaf, she could watch the
                        house and be out of the way of Lathers or any of his men, if they should
                        come to arrest her.
                    This arrangement, however, was a very exasperating one to McGowan, who had
                        watched Nancy all the way from the sheriff's office. He was sure of some
                        conference between her and Bonamy, under cover of the vineyard. So he began
                        to look up and down the rows of vines, with his hand on the lock of his gun,
                        searching for Mark with the same keen hunter's gaze that was trained in the
                        search for  wild beasts, and looking for him
                        with no more of scruple about killing him than he would have had about
                        shooting a wolf.
                    Among those whom Mother Tartrum had spoken briefly of the scandal was Mr.
                        Highbury. She had only told him vaguely that there was something awful about
                        to come out about Mr. Bonamy's private character. She hadn't time to say
                        more; but there would be trouble. She had seen a man from Rocky Fork waiting
                        with a gun. And, having thus piqued Highbury's curiosity, she departed with
                        that air of reserved information so satisfying to the gossip. It chanced
                        that Mr. Highbury met Mr. Whittaker immediately after, and forthwith
                        launched into a strain of moralizing over Mark's fall and the danger of
                        these exciting revivals. The approved and pious way of gossiping is to
                        sweeten scandal with the treacle of homilizing inferences.
                    Whittaker, from his previous knowledge of Nancy, guessed more of the fact
                        than Highbury could tell him. He was grievously uneasy during Mr. Highbury's
                        somewhat protracted moralities, and at last broke away rather abruptly. He
                        was thinking of the thunderbolt hanging over the head of Roxy. Ought he not
                        to do something to protect her? He could not go himself. Whom could he send?
                        He thought of fat, inane, little Mrs. Highbury, and almost smiled at the
                        idea of her consoling anybody. He could not send Mrs. Adams, the Miss Moore
                        of other times. She wasï¿½wellï¿½not a fool; but she was what she was. Mrs.
                        Hanks was Roxy's aunt; but he thought, from the little he knew of her, that
                        she would not do.
                    But there was Twonnet,ï¿½giddy, nonsense-loving, railing, Twonnet! With a
                        glow he thought of her. What a  fountain of
                        comfort that child had in her! He walked more briskly. He did not know how
                        long this rumor had been afloat, and he might be too late to shield Roxy by
                        the presence of her friend. He found Twonnet coming from the garden,
                        carrying a wooden bowl full of freshly plucked lettuce, and singing
                        gayly:
                    
                        "Then buy a little toy,
                        A little toyï¿½a little toy,
                        From poor Rose of Lucerne!
                        I've crossed the ocean blue,
                        From Swiss-land a stranger,
                        For a brother dear to me,
                        From Swiss-land a ranger,
                        Then buy a little toy," etc.
                    
                    The air was lighter than vanity; the words were nothing; but the gay heart of
                        the girl poured out in the childish song its own joyousness, with all the
                        delicious abandon of a catbird's early morning melody. Seeing Whittaker, she
                        colored slightly; but, quickly assuming an entreating air, she held out her
                        bowl of lettuce as though offering wares for sale, turned her head of pretty
                        brown curls on one side, and plaintively, even beseechingly, repeated the
                        refrain:
                    
                        "Oh! buy a little toy,
                        From poor Rose of Lucerne!"
                    
                    There was so much dramatic expression in the action, so much of tenderness in
                        the mercurial eyes and ruddy brown cheeks and soft pleading voice, so much
                        of something in himself that drew him to "the child," as he called her, that
                        he could hardly keep back the tears. For a moment he almost forgot his
                        errand, but the sudden recollection  of Roxy's
                        peril sent a counter-current of feeling through him. He put his hands upon
                        the bowl which she held out to him and said:
                    "Dear girl, don't. I want to speak to you."
                    The eagerness of his manner, and the unwonted tenderness of his speech, swept
                        away the rollicking mood, and save to Twonnet's face a flush and an air of
                        solemn self-constraint, at strange variance with her previous
                        playfulness.
                    "Dear Twonnet,"ï¿½the kindly form of address came from the complex feelings
                        of the moment,ï¿½"some great calamity is about to happen to Roxy."
                    Twonnet breathed a sigh, and regained something of her composure.
                    "There are painful rumors about Mark. I can't explain it to you. There is no
                        one else that can help her. You are the wisest woman in town. You areï¿½"
                        Here Mr. Whittaker checked himself. The returning flush in the face of the
                        young woman reminded him that such flattering words were hardly what he
                        wanted to say at that time. He recovered his customary reserve of manner,
                        and added: "Go! Be quick. I'll explain to your mother."
                    "But what shall I say?"
                    "Nothing, unless you think best. God help the poor woman!"
                    Twonnet pulled down the sleeves of her dress, donned her sun-bonnet and
                        hurried off. She was full of alarm for Roxy; but how many emotions can exist
                        in the soul at once! In her heart of hearts there was a melody made by the
                        words of commendation that Mr. Whittaker had uttered. He had spoken kindly,
                        even tenderly. But as she drew near to Roxy's house, the undercurrent of  pleasurable excitement had vanished. The
                        shadow of some great sorrow of Roxy's fell upon her.
                    When she went in, she found Roxy impassively looking out of the window. The
                        millions upon millions of pigeons were still flying, and she was watching
                        them in the same numb fashion as in the morning. She greeted Twonnet with a
                        silent embrace. Then Twonnet sat down by her with no words. Roxy scanned
                        Twonnet's face. Then she looked out at the pigeons again. They kept coming
                        over the southern hills and flying so steadily to the north in such long and
                        bewildering flocks of countless multitude. The very monotony of the
                        apparition of new myriads when the other myriads had swiftly disappeared,
                        suited Roxy's numb state. She had eaten no dinner. A deadly apprehension of
                        disaster filled her thoughts, and she read a confirmation of her fear in
                        Twonnet's face, and in her silence, but she did not ask anything. She kept
                        on watching for the next great flock of swift-flying birds to come out of
                        the horizon.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVI.
                    ROXY SHAKES THE DUST FROM HER FEET.
                    "MR. MC GOWAN, what
                        are you hunting for?"
                    It was the shrill voice of Mother Tartrum. She and Mrs. Hanks on their way to
                        convey bad intelligence to Roxy had come suddenly on Jim who was still
                        looking up and down the rows of the vineyard.
                    "For a crow," said Jim, a little disconcerted. Then he added in soliloquy,
                        "For the blackest one I kin find."
                    "That man," said Mother Tartrum. "ought to be stopped. He's going to shoot
                        Mr. Bonamy. I'm sure of it. He said to me this morning that he'd like to get
                        a shot at him with his rifle."
                    "Oh, dear!" said Mrs. Hanks, as they came to the gate. "How awful that would
                        be!" But she could not help reflecting that in case of such an awful result
                        Roxy would get her "thirds" of a very nice property.
                    Twonnet from the window saw Mother Tartrum and Mrs. Hanks come in at the
                        gate. Roxy was still looking off vacantly at the sky and the pigeons.
                    "Mrs. Hanks is coming," said Twonnet, gently rousing Roxy by laying her hand
                        on her arm. Roxy shuddered like one reviving from unconsciousness.
                    When the visitors knocked, Twonnet admitted them and stood by Roxy's chair
                        when they had seated themselves. There was a very awkward pause.
                    
                    "Miss Lefaure," said Mrs. Hanks, "we should like to see Roxy alone."
                    But Roxy looked at Twonnet appealingly and took hold of her dress, much as a
                        timid child might have done.
                    "I think Roxy wants me to stay here," said Twonnet. "We've stood by one
                        another in every trouble, you know."
                    "As her aunt I suppose I am her next friend," said Mrs. Hanks, testily, "and
                        I have a very confidential communication to make."
                    "Best friends aren't always born in one's family, Mrs. Hanks, especially when
                        one happens to be born as Roxy was, poorer than her relations." Twonnet made
                        this rasping speech from an instinctive wish to draw to herself the fire of
                        Mrs. Hanks and so to shield the smitten Roxy from that lady's peculiar
                        lecturing abilities.
                    Mrs. Hanks bridled with anger, but Mother Tartrum's voluble tongue caught the
                        wind first. Turning her sharp gray eyes restlessly from side to side under
                        her spectacles, she came out with a characteristic speech:
                    "Now Miss Lefaure, we've got something very important to
                        say to Mrs. Bonamyï¿½very important, and an awful secret, too. It refers to
                        Mrs. Bonamy's private affairsï¿½to her relations with her
                        husband. And we don't choose to have you hear it. It isn't fit for a young
                        woman to hear. You just go in the other room, won't you?"
                    "Not till Roxy tells me to. I know what you are going to talk about. It isn't
                        such an awful secret. It's talked about all over town, I suppose."
                    At this suggestion of publicity, Roxy shuddered again.
                    "Oh, somebody's been telling it, have they? I suppose you hurried down here
                        to tell it. People are such tattlers 
                        nowadays. Even young people aint ashamed to talk about the worst things.
                        Well, Mrs. Hanks, if they know, I suppose we might as well go." Mother
                        Tartrum could not bear that everybody else in town should be talking of the
                        scandal and she be out of the way. She felt that people were infringing her
                        copyright.
                    Bobo had by this time come into the room and stood behind his mother's chair
                        observing Roxy's face. He had before noticed that Roxy was not pleasantly
                        affected by his mother's presence and he was possessed with the impulse to
                        defend Roxy at all times. He came round in front of his mother's chair and
                        said:
                    "You'd better be going, Aunt Henrietta."
                    Mrs. Hanks grew red with indignation, and Bobo drew back for fear of a box on
                        the ears.
                    "Well, Roxy, if you'd listened to my advice you might have seen better days.
                        But even now you wont talk to me about your affairs. And so your husband's
                        disgraced you. Are you going to put up with it and stay? That's the
                        question. You can get a divorce and get your share of the property. I came
                        down to advise you because I have your interests at heart. But I do wish
                        you'd consult more with me. And you might take pains to teach my own child
                        not to be so impudent to me. He will call me aunt. Now I think we'd better
                        go back, Mrs. Tartrum." 
                            
                                "'Go back, go back,' he cried with grief,
                                'Across the stormy water.
                                And I'll forgive your Highland chief,ï¿½
                                My daughter, oh, my daughter!'"
                            
                         muttered Bobo, who had committed endless strings of poetry and in whose
                        mind an echo of memory was easily set agoing by the sound of a word.
                    
                    "I must say, Roxy," said Mrs. Hanks, with asperity, "that I think troubles
                        are sometimes judgments on people. Some women put up with things, but you
                        wont, I'm sure, and if you should get a divorce you could get a good
                        alimony, andï¿½"
                    "No, no!" cried Roxy, getting to her feet. "What do you talk to me that way
                        for?" Then she sat down again, fiery but silent.
                    "Aunt Henrietta, you'd better go, right off."
                    "Bobo, you're too aggravating for anything," cried Mrs. Hanks. "To be
                        insulted by my own child!"
                    But she took the advice and departed, while Bobo, whose brain was now
                        seething with confused excitement, swung his arms in triumph and
                        chuckled:
                    
                        "They're gone over bank, bush and scaur,
                        'They'll have fleet steeds that follow,' quoth young
                            Lochinvar."
                    
                    "Twonnet," said Roxy, "what is this thing that is so
                        dreadful? Everybody says it is awful and nobody will tell me what it
                        is."
                    "I don't know, Roxy. I am like the man in the Bible that ran without a
                        message. I heard that there was some scandal about Mark, and I came right
                        off to you. Mr. Whittaker told me to come. I didn't hear what it was. But
                        I'm glad you didn't hear it from them."
                    "Hasï¿½" But Roxy hesitated.
                    "What is it, dear?" asked Twonnet, tenderly.
                    "Has Mark gone away for good?"
                    "I don't know. I didn't know that he had gone at all."
                    Roxy leaned her head upon the window sill and lay  thus a long time. Twonnet looked out of the window. She saw a
                        figure moving among the vines. Then Nancy Kirtley came stealthily out into
                        the walk and approached the house. Twonnet looked at her for a minute. Then
                        she said:
                    "Roxy, I do believe there is that same Kirtley girl that we saw a long time
                        agoï¿½the night Haz's baby died."
                    "Oh, Twonnet!" said Roxy, catching hold of her friend. "She's the one that
                        all this is about. I know now. How can I see her? I can't!
                        I hate her!" And she buried her head in her hands.
                    "You mustn't see her," said Twonnet, shuddering.
                    "Yes, I must, if it kills me. I must know the worst of it. Bring her in here.
                        Bobo, go out."
                    Nancy was in a hurry. Dimly through the rows of vines she had caught sight of
                        Jim McGowan searching every avenue for Mark. She had not recognized him, but
                        was sure that this man with a gun was some emissary of Lathers, bent on
                        arresting her, or of recapturing from her the precious paper with which she
                        hoped to drive Roxy away from her husband. There was, therefore, no time to
                        be lost. She entered without a sign of recognition, and sat herself down
                        boldlyï¿½almost fiercelyï¿½in front of Roxy. But there was something so
                        awful in the rigid face of this woman, who drew back from her as from a
                        hateful and polluted thing, that Nancy found it hard to begin. She began to
                        feel a stinging sense of her disgrace. She had no circumlocutions at
                        command. Her story was soon told. To the pure and sensitive Roxy it seemed
                        so hideously repulsive, so horrible in the black consequences that it must
                        bring, thatï¿½woman-likeï¿½she refused to believe it, or, rather, she
                        refused to admit that she believed it, in spite of all the evidence that her
                        own  knowledge of Mark's recent behavior
                        furnished in confirmation.
                    "I don't believe a word you say," she said to Nancy.
                    "You don't, hey? I knowed you was stuck-up. You stole him from me, and I
                        swore I'd be even. I'low I'm gittin purty nigh even about this time. Looky
                        heer, heer's a watch-seal that Mark Bonamy gin me when he was a-runnin' fer
                        the legislater in eighteen and forty. That's four year ago, soon after the
                        night he danced all night with me, and gin all the rest the go-by. You don't
                        believe that's his'n? Well, whose Testament's this? He gimme that at Canaan.
                        That come when he was a preacher. You're a town gal, and you kin read the
                        writin' in that Testament. You see he loved me right along. I'll leave it to
                        you, yourself, which a man would be likely to love most, you or me, now?"
                        And she pushed back her sun-bonnet and showed her beautiful face,
                        fascinating as a leopard's.
                    Roxy drew away from her with loathing.
                    "You hateful creature!" she said. "You aren't telling the truth." But she
                        knew that Nancy's story was true.
                    "Oh yes! you don't like me. I don't wonder at that. I'm goin' to git even
                        weth Mark, I am. Him an' Major Lathers has been a-lettin' on he was agoin'
                        off weth me to Texas. I'll show 'em! Look at that paper, won't you?" Here
                        she handed the paper to Roxy, who saw these words, in a handwriting she
                        could not mistake: 
                            
                                
                                    "Whatever arrangement Major Lathers makes with Nancy Kirtley
                                        I will carry out.
                                    
                                        "MARK BONAMY."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    "That was got up to fool me," proceeded Nancy, by way of exposition. "Now,
                        Mark Bonamy can do as he  pleases. He kin go
                        off weth me, or I'll have him tuck up. An' you'll larn, sis, whether it's
                        safe to fool weth Nance Kirtley's beaus or not. I'll git even weth the whole
                        kit and tuck of you, by thunder! It's a way the Kirtleys has, you know." And
                        her eyes beamed with a ferocious exultation, as she saw a look of hopeless
                        pain overspread the face of her victim.
                    Then Nancy gathered up from the floor, where Roxy had partly dropped and
                        partly thrown them, her Testament and her watch-seal and the paper taken
                        from Lathers, and departed, keeping a good look-out for sheriffs who might
                        want to take her up.
                    "Twonnet," said Roxy, when Nancy had gone, "let's get out of this house. It
                        smothers me. I shall die if I stay here. I hate everything here. It seems
                        like a kind of hell!"
                    She got up and went to her own room. She changed her gown for one that she
                        had worn before her marriage. She gathered up the few little treasures she
                        had yet from her girlhood, and put away everything that had been bought with
                        Mark's money. Then she took her bundle and started out the door. The hired
                        girl came after her to the piazza in amazement, and asked if she would be
                        home to supper. But she shook her head in silence and went on, followed by
                        Bobo and Twonnet.
                    Her father, who had heard the scandal by this time, met her in the road, not
                        far from the gate. She reached out her hand and took his with a little sob,
                        and the stern old shoe-maker ground his teeth, but said nothing. Hand in
                        hand walked the father and the daughter, followed by Bobo and Twonnet, till
                        they entered the old log-house, with its familiar long clock and high
                        mantel-piece and wide fire-place. Mrs. Rachel Adams and Jemima met  her with tears; only Roxy neither cried nor
                        spoke. In her own upper room she set down her bundle with a sigh, and then,
                        exhausted, lay down again on her own bed, and lay there, with Twonnet by
                        her, until the day died into dusk and the dusky twilight darkened into
                        night.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVII.
                    A DAY OF JUDGMENT.
                    MARTHA ANN, the hired girl, was so
                        stunned by the manner of Mrs. Bonamy's departure, that she went to the
                        nearest neighbor's to reconnoiter. Hearing the wildest reports of the
                        scandal, she made up her mind solemnly and conclusively that it wa'n't no
                        kind of a house fer a respectable and decent young woman to stay in. So she
                        went into the field and unburdened herself to the old negro, Bob, who had
                        been with the Bonamys as slave, and then as hireling, all his life. Bob,
                        with true negro non-committalism, didn't know nothin' 'bout dat ah. Fer his
                        paht, he was agoin' to put dem 'arly taters in de groun' ef white folks fell
                        out wid one anudder or ef dey fell in ag'in. 'Peared like as if white folks
                        was allus a-habin a spiteful time. Didn't reckon 'twould hu't his cha'acter
                        to stay awhile in de ole house. Anyways he was a-gwine to stick dese h'yer
                        'arly taters into de groun'.
                    But Martha Ann left. She did not go home that night, but stopped with a
                        second cousin in the village, so that she might have the pleasure of being
                        consulted by the gossips as a high authority on the internal infelicity of
                        the Bonamy household. And she sincerely tried to recall something worth
                        telling, giving her memory a serious strain in the effort.
                    It was while the town was in this white heat of excited curiosity, that Mark
                        Bonamy rode his dripping horse  through the
                        streets. Lathers had hailed him, with the purpose of warning him against
                        McGowan's rifle. He spurned the sheriff as he would have spurned an emissary
                        of the devil.
                    He rode into his own gate with dread. Martha Ann had not felt obliged to
                        close the doors, so that the place had the air of being inhabited yet. He
                        threw the bridle-reins over the hitching-post in front of the house, and
                        alighted. He went across the porch, into the hall, through the sitting-room,
                        into the parlor. The horrible foreboding that he was too late to make the
                        confession he should have made before, gradually deepened now into
                        certainty. He hurried upstairs, hoping that Roxy might be there. There was
                        Roxy's apparel, as she had left it. He opened the drawersï¿½there were all
                        the things he had ever given her. Her dresses hung in the old-fashioned
                        clothes-press. He did not doubt that she had gone. But she had goneï¿½Roxy
                        likeï¿½not meanly, but proudly.
                    Then, for the first time, he felt what a woman she was. How had he failed in
                        his pride of birth and conceit of smartness, to understand her superiority!
                        He had looked with condescension on a woman who was utterly above him. Here
                        was to be no suit for alimonyï¿½not an unnecessary shoe-latchet of his would
                        she carry away. These things strewn about the room said plainly that, having
                        loved her husband and not his possessions, she utterly rejected what was his
                        when she cast him off.
                    Mark cursed his own folly and wickedness. In that hour of desertion and
                        loneliness, he loved Roxy as he had never loved her before. How would he
                        have died to have undone all this evil! He went to the kitchen to find
                        Martha Ann; but she also had gone. He made no doubt Bob had deserted, too.
                        He was a leper, forsaken by his household.
                    
                    Returning to the sitting-room, he sat down where Roxy had sat before; he
                        rested his head on the table until night came on. Darkness, Solitude, and
                        Remorse are a grim and hateful company.
                    Bob had come near the house once or twice; but, seeing no one, he had gone to
                        "do his choores." At last, when it was fairly dark, he concluded that, as
                        the master had not come back, he would better shut up the doors. So he went
                        stumbling about the house, looking for a candle. Supposing himself alone in
                        the deserted place, it seemed a little frightful to his superstitious mind,
                        and he cheered himself with soliloquy and the childish humor of his
                        race.
                    "Bob, it peahs like as ef ev'ybody's cleam cl'ar'd out and done lef' dis yeah
                        place to you. Hyah! hyah! Yo' house, yo' barn, yo' hosses. Sho, Bob, you's
                        a-gittin' too rich fo' a niggah. Dribe roun' in yo' own ca'idge, now, and
                        keep anudder niggah. Be a lawyeh, I reckon, an' 'scuss things afo' de jedge.
                        Run fo' Cong'ess nex'. 'Taint ev'y day a ole niggah drops down into a
                        han'some house an'ï¿½Good goramity! Oh! My Lor'! Who's dis heah?"
                    Bob had run against Mark, who sat still by the table. The old negro soon
                        appreciated the position of things, was profuse in his apologies, declared
                        that what he was saying he didn't mean, was on'y jes' a-foolin', ye know,
                        sah.
                    "Bob," said Mark, "what time did Mrs. Bonamy go away?"
                    "Don' sahtainly know, sah. A pooty good while ago, sah. Done been gone a
                        right smart while, sah. May be a little longer'n dat, sah. Can't tell, ye
                        know I was out a -plantin' 'arly taters anï¿½"
                    
                    "Did Martha Ann go with her?"
                    "No, sah, not zactly wid her, sah. She come out to me wid a whole lot o'
                        nonsense about goin' off, an' about her cha'acter. An' I tole her, says
                        Iï¿½"
                    "Who's been here to-day?"
                    "I don't know, sah. I see sev'al, may be mo'n sev'al, ladies a-comin' in. Mis
                        Hanks an' ole Mis Tahtrum, an' a gal in a sunbonnet I see agoin' out, and
                        Mis Twonnet war heah nigh onto de whole day, an'ï¿½laws, now, dah's dat hoss
                        you rid a-nickerin' out dah. Never mind, honey, I'll come and put ye in de
                        stable direckly."
                    And the old man, after fumbling around awhile, lit the solar lamp on the
                        table. Then he started to take care of the horse, but seemed to think he'd
                        forgotten something. He came back to the door, and said:
                    "'Peahs like's ef you was a-havin' hard trials and much trebbelations lately.
                        Lean on de Lord, Massa Mark, and he will restrain ye, though de floods
                        overflow ye, an' the waters slosh over yo' head, an'ï¿½"
                    "There, that'll do. Go on, Bob," said Mark.
                    The old man, after stabling the horse, returned to the house and got some
                        kind of a supper for Mark, which he put upon a tray and set on the table in
                        front of him. Then he retired, leaving Mark again in the society of the
                        black sistersï¿½Night, Loneliness, and Remorse. He left the supper
                        untouched. He wandered about the grounds and the house. The one uppermost
                        thought in his mind was suicide. It was quite characteristic of him that his
                        remorse should take this intense form. Roxy's character seemed to him so
                        noble, and his own so full of paltry meanness and large wickedness, that,
                        for very shame, and as the only adequate expression of his repentance and
                        affection for her whom he had wronged, he thought he  ought to snuff out a life that seemed to have no goodness in
                        its past, and no promise in its future. He had, in times past, forgotten and
                        broken all good resolutions. He dared not trust himself to do better in the
                        future. But, in fact, Bonamy was in a better state than ever before. For the
                        first time in his life, he dragged his whole character to the bar of
                        judgment. In all his religious experiences, no conviction had ever probed
                        the weakness of his nature to the bottom. The Mark Bonamy looking suicide in
                        the face, was better than the religionist, Bonamy, with his surface
                        enthusiasm. When Iscariot killed himself, it was because for the first time
                        he knew himself, and realized that the world had no use or place for such as
                        he. There was more hope for him then, had he only known it, than when he sat
                        complacently at the feet of the Master.
                    It seemed to Mark that only by ending his life could he adequately atone for
                        his fault. The fear of the perdition of popular belief did not deter him.
                        Penal suffering would have been a relief to his conscience. If he could have
                        burned out the remorse, he would have taken any amount of burning. He began
                        gradually to resolve on and then to plan for suicide. Roxy should know at
                        the last that he was not wholly mean, and that in spite of all his evil, he
                        loved her. He would arrange his affairs, bequeath his estate to Roxy, except
                        a sum for the care of Nancy's child, when it should be born. Roxy might
                        reject the estate, if she chose; but, having done what he could to repair
                        his fault, he would flee out of life.
                    But, even with this decision, the ignoble side of his nature had more to do
                        than he supposed. It is easier for a man who dreads suffering, and
                        mortification and complex difficulties, and the slow agony of moral
                        convalescence,  to escape from life, than to
                        fight one's way to such goodness as lies in reach, and then to live with the
                        consciousness that it is but a half-way goodness after all, very uncertain
                        and untrustworthy, liable to fall down easily and subject one to new
                        mortifications and a Sisyphian toil.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVIII.
                    THE TEMPTER.
                    HAZ KIRTLEY, the drayman, lived in that
                        part of the town situated on the lower bank next the water. Since the great
                        freshet of 1832, when the Ohio had swept clean over this lower level, it had
                        been abandoned by most of the inhabitants of the well-to-do class. And now
                        the village cows grazed over green commons, where before had been rose
                        gardens and grape arbors. Some of the houses had been removed, but some
                        which were damaged by the water were allowed to remain in a ruined state,
                        tenanted by the families of fishermen and other such folk, and by rats. This
                        part of the village was called Slabtown in familiar speech, and here lived
                        the Kirtleys in a house but one room of which had been finished, when the
                        freshet came and drove the owner to a secure refuge on the high terrace.
                        Hither came Nancy in a state of vengeful exultation after she had stabbed
                        Roxy Bonamy by the evidences which she was able to produce of Mark's
                        infidelity.
                    Notwithstanding Nancy availed herself of the shelter of her brother's house
                        without hesitation, a state of cat-and-dog discord had long subsisted
                        between her and the drayman's wife. Mrs. Hezekiah Kirtley was a tall,
                        raw-boned woman such as the poor-whitey class produces in abundance. She was
                        not fair of countenance. Haz did not marry her for comeliness of face or
                        figure. In fact, Haz could hardly be said to have married her at all; on  the contrary she married him. Her charms were
                        resistible, but her persevering determination was not.
                    Nancy had long enjoyed setting off her own magnificent figure, large,
                        lustrous black eyes, glossy eyebrows, abundant hair, symmetrical features,
                        red, sensuous lips, white teeth and ruddy healthful cheeks, with the hatchet
                        face and hard, repellant eyes of her lank sister-in-law. She could not
                        forbear trying to make her sister-in-law appreciate the contrast. The
                        consequence was a perpetual irritation between them, sure to end in an open
                        quarrel pretty soon after every coming together.
                    Now that Nancy was disgraced, it could not be expected that Mrs. Haz would be
                        magnanimous. She had been humiliated so long that her present opportunity
                        was golden. She began with innuendoes and ended with downright abuse. Nancy
                        sat on the hearth glowering and growling savage retorts like a fierce beast
                        driven to bay at last, sullen but not despairing. She felt more hopeful when
                        Haz came home to supper with the news of Mrs. Bonamy's desertion of her home
                        and of Bonamy's return. But Haz's wife grew steadily more violent, her words
                        fanned her passion; she called Nancy vile names; taunted her with her folly
                        and the inevitable disappointment and disgrace in store for her, and set the
                        savage creature wild with impotent wrath. The girl refused to go to bed on
                        the straw pallet in the unfinished loft, but sat staring sulkily at the
                        tallow candle. And the hope of success in her schemes sank down within her
                        like the flame of the expiring candle, flickering in its socket. At length,
                        as midnight came on, when the exhausted Mrs. Haz had been sleeping soundly
                        for an hour or two, Nancy rose up from her chair and started out in the
                        darkness, taking her way through the town and toward the Bonamy place.
                    
                    Bonamy had wandered about wildly all the early part of the night and had then
                        sat down in the lighted sitting-room, exhausted with the strain of emotion
                        and the fatigue of the day. He was a condemned prisoner. There was no road
                        out of his perplexity but by death. In vain he had beaten against the bars
                        on every side. There was nothing else for him. After awhile he heard the
                        sound of feet coming up the steps and across the porch and through the hall,
                        and Nancy Kirtley came unceremoniously to the door of the room where he sat.
                        She was not quite the old Nancy. The air of vanity and coquetry was gone.
                        The face, if anything, was more striking than before. Her present passion
                        was a bad one, but it was a serious one. There was an unwonted fire in her
                        eyes, and though it was a fire of desperation, it was at least a sign of
                        some sort of awakening.
                    "Mark Bonamy, you and Lathers has been a-foolin' weth me," she said
                        deflantly. "All the blame fools is a-laughin' at me now, and callin' me bad
                        names. I haint agoin' to be fooled weth. I come to see whether you'd do the
                        fa'r thing by me."
                    "What is fair?" said Mark.
                    "Why, go away weth me, like Major Lathers promised. Your ole woman's gone,
                        and she wont never come back, I 'low. She'll git a divorce. Now, what air
                        you goin' to do fer me?"
                    "I don't know."
                    "You don't know? You don't know? They haint on'y jest one thing fer you er
                        me. Let's light out of this ere country. You can't stay here. Roxy Adams has
                        left you. Now why can't you take keer of me and my baby? You know it's
                        yourn, too. What'm I to do? At Rocky Fork they'll all laugh at meï¿½hang
                        'em! Haz's wife, she's jest  about kicked me
                        out. And now you're goin' to throw me overboard. And to-morry I wont have no
                        friend to my name. Everybody'll hate me and sass me. An' I jest wont stan'
                        itï¿½I can't stan' it no longer!" And Nance sat down and cried.
                    Mark's quick feeling was touched. He knew that Nancy herself had plotted this
                        ruin; but her grief at its unforeseen results was real. He had made up his
                        mind to suicide. Here was a sort of suicide in life that he might commit. He
                        was nothing now to Roxy. Why not deliver this other woman from the shame he
                        had helped to bring upon her. And then, there was the unborn child; it would
                        also have a claim upon him. There was Texas, a wild land in that day, a
                        refuge of bankrupts and fugitive criminals. Among these people he might come
                        to be a sort of a leader, and make some sort of a future for himself. This
                        Nance was a lawless creatureï¿½a splendid savage, full of ferocity.
                        Something of the sentiment of Tennyson's "Locksley Hall" was in him. He
                        would commit moral suicide instead of physical,ï¿½release the animal part of
                        his nature from allegiance to what was better; and, since he had failed in
                        civilized life, he might try his desperate luck as a savage. It was easier
                        to sink the pressent Bonamy in the wild elements of the South-western
                        frontier, than to blow out his brains or drown himself.
                    Moved by the tears of Nancy and by such thoughts as these, he got to his
                        feet, with an impulse to canvass the matter with Nancy. Then everything
                        about him reminded him of Roxy. It was all as the brave, heart-broken woman
                        had left it. After all, she was the real victim. Should he add another to
                        her injuries? The recollection of his first pure love for the enthusiastic
                        girl came back with a rush. It were better to die than to yield again to  the seductions of Nancy, even when a sort of
                        false duty seemed to be on that side. He remembered how like a fierce savage
                        Nance had made war on Roxy, and with what terrible result. With one of those
                        quick revulsions to which impulsive natures are subject, he felt all the
                        tide of bitter remorse that he had suffered in the day coming back.
                    "Nancy, look here!" He confronted her as he spoke. "You set yourself to ruin
                        Roxy. You said you wanted to break her heart. You know you did. She never
                        did you any harm. She never did anybody any harm. She's one of God's angels,
                        and you're the Devil's devil. So am - God knows I'm not
                        fit for Roxy. But I wont do her any more harm. I wish to the Lord I'd died
                        before I ever did this. Now, Nancy, I'll provide for you and the child. I'll
                        send you away somewhere, if you want to go. But I swear now, by the Almighty
                        God in Heaven, that I never will go a step with you! I am sorry for you, and
                        I'll do whatever you want as to money; but the devil himself sha'n't make me
                        go off with you. If you want any help, send me word; but I don't want to see
                        you any more."
                    "I'll have you took up," said Nance, fiercely.
                    "I don't care. I ought to be in jail."
                    "I'll have you shot. Blamed ef I wont!"
                    "You'll have to be quick. I mean to kill myself as soon as I get things fixed
                        up. If your father or brother or Jim McGowan get the first shot, it'll save
                        trouble."
                    Saying so, Mark walked away upstairs, leaving Nancy to get out as she could.
                        And, indeed, she stood a long time on the porch. She was foiled, and all her
                        venom turned back on herself. She could not go back to Rocky Fork. The world
                        had turned to perdition. The vain, arrogant creature was the butt of
                        everybody nowï¿½a despised  castaway, whose
                        very beauty was a shame. Even Mark Bonamy called her a devil. She had looked
                        in contempt on all the women of her world; there was not a woman now, in all
                        her world, that did not utterly despise her. Nothing in all this social
                        universe is so utterly thrown away and trodden under foot as a dishonored
                        woman. And even the unthinking Nancy felt this as she walked in the
                        moonlight along the river-bank all the way back toward her brother's house,
                        which the cowed creature dared not enter again that night.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIX.
                    THE HELPER.
                    WHO shall take account of the difference in the individual
                        manifestations of the human conscience? There sits Nancy Kirtley on the bank
                        of the broad river, while the white light of the declining moon is on its
                        waters, and the dim Kentucky hills are sinking into a darkness that will
                        soon swallow them entirely. If you could examine her consciousness you would
                        hardly find a sense of wrong-doing. There is a brute sense of defeat, and,
                        perhaps, a feeling that she has blundered, and that some other course might
                        have been better. There is something which a sanguine evolutionist might
                        hope would develop into a conscience, by some chance, in many generations.
                        But what eons will it require to transform this feeling that somebody or
                        some fate unseen has wronged her, into a moral judgment capable of
                        distinguishing and respecting the rights of others?
                    In this same moonlight night, Whittaker, who has wrought none of this wrong,
                        is troubled by it so that he cannot sleep. The scrupulous man must ever
                        suffer vicariously. The sins of others are laid upon him; he is wounded for
                        their iniquities. Such extremes are there within this human race of
                        ours!
                    Whittaker was profoundly moved that night by haunting thoughts of Roxy in her
                        anguish. He could not go to offer sympathy, but he comforted himself with
                        thinking  of Twonnet keeping watch over the
                        forlorn woman. Then he remembered with more indignation than pity the guilty
                        man, Bonamy. From general rumor Whittaker had heard of Mark's return to the
                        deserted house. Spite of his indignation, the minister was moved a little
                        when he thought of him with no companionship but that of Night, and
                        Loneliness, and Remorse. Ought not he, a servant of The Servant, to seek out
                        this abandoned leper and help him in the hour of his darkness to find his
                        way back into regions of light, of cleanness, and of human fellowship?
                    Whittaker was shy and timidï¿½the bravest men are. He shrunk from intruding
                        into the troubles of othersï¿½the most sympathetic people do. But on this
                        night he was tormented about an affair that any other man in Luzerne would
                        have said was none of his. Such are the gross inequalities of conscience.
                        Aaron Burr reads cheerfully in his bath with a fresh murder on his hands; a
                        sensitive man lies awake because of some opportunity neglected of helping
                        one who has himself chiefly to blame for his own troubles. Behold the
                        premium one must pay for elevation of character!
                    An hour after midnight Whittaker got up and looked out on the moonlight
                        making visible, in a sweet and dreamy way, the chief features of the
                        landscape. It was hardly a view, but a sort of a monochromatic picture. The
                        moonlit scene bore the same relation to the familiar daylight view of the
                        landscape that reverie does to plain and open thought.
                    Without any very definite purpose, Whittaker dressed himself and went out.
                        The broad river was as smooth as glass; there was a sky below in symmetric
                        correspondence to that above. Still without a clear notion of what he  should do, or could do, the minister took the
                        way toward Bonamy's, walking meditatively here and there under a locust in
                        full and fragrant flower; even the grass-grown sidewalk was strewn with
                        fallen petals. But as he neared the smitten house the loveliness of the
                        night landscape faded from his thought and perceptions. He was full of
                        conflicting feelings. He felt a contempt for Bonamy's selfish weakness of
                        character; yet he could not, by thinking of this, excuse himself. The
                        physician is sent to the sick.
                    There was the light in the sitting-roomï¿½the lamp burned as steadily as it
                        could have done if the house were at peace. The place had all its old
                        stateliness; for the outer circumstances of our lives will not respond to
                        the trouble within. Who could have guessed that a solitary and desperate
                        mail was the owner of this house? There he sat by this cheerful home-light
                        with hardly one ray of hope in his life and with a pistol, newly charged, on
                        the table in front of him?
                    Whittaker opened the smaller front gate quietly and then took his course up
                        the path across the black belts made by the long shadows of the poplars,
                        toward the porch. The large front door stood open as Nancy had left it, but
                        Mark had closed the door from the hall-way to the sitting-room on his return
                        to that room after Nancy's departure. Whittaker, with much palpitation,
                        knocked at this inner door.
                    "Come in." The voice had a strangely broken sound.
                    Mark was greatly surprised at seeing his visitor. Of all men, Whittaker!
                        Nevertheless, he was glad to see him; if for no other reason, because he was
                        somebodyï¿½a human being.
                    "Did you come from her?" he asked with downcast eyes.
                    
                    "From whom?"
                    "From my wife?"
                    "I have not seen her," said Whittaker, somewhat coldly. "But if you wish to
                        send any message, I will take it."
                    Bonamy motioned him to a chair, and then sat silent for a long time.
                    "I am afraid I ought not to have trespassed on you in your trouble. But I
                        could not think of any other person likely to come to you, and it is a
                        dreadful thing to be alone in trouble."
                    "It is," said Mark, gloomily. Then after a pause, "It is curious you should come, though."
                    "Why?"
                    "Well, my brother-in-law and my sister are ashamed to come. My old friends
                        all stay away. You have no reason even to like me. Certainly you wouldn't
                        take my part against Roxy?"
                    "Of course not. I think Mrs. Bonamy a good woman." Whittaker purposely spoke
                        in a cool tone that he might not arouse any antagonism in Mark.
                    Mark sat still a moment, then slowly closed his fist and brought it down upon
                        the table like a hammer.
                    "God!" he muttered between his teeth. "You make me mad, Mr. Whittaker."
                    "You ought not to be angry," said Whittaker with firmness. "I think she
                        deserves that and more."
                    "But you speak so coldly. A good woman! Oh, Lord! what a fool I have been! A
                        good woman! Why, I tell you, here, Mr. Whittaker, that she is a grand
                        woman." Here Mark got to his feet and paced the floor. "There are no words
                        for her. I hate myself. I curse myself. I thought myself somebody. I was
                        proud of my  family and of my popularity, and
                        the devil only knows what besides. What an infernal fool I was! I looked
                        down on her. I did not think she could have any pride, except in me and what
                        belonged to me. I wounded her proud spirit every day. Proud? Why, thatï¿½Oh,
                        God! what shall I call her? I tell you she went away from here to-day
                        leaving behind every scrap and trinket that had been bought with my money.
                        When she spurned me she spurned everything, even the clothes she wore as my
                        wife, and went out as poor and proud as she came. And people thought she was
                        proud of me. And I stung her pride with my devilish foolishness and then,
                        when at last she answered me with defiance I thought I was injured. I felt
                        sorry for myself and angry at her for being so severe, and I rushed straight
                        into the trap the devil had set for me. God! what a fool I was to think
                        myself better than my poor, poor Roxy! My poor, poor, proud, broken-hearted
                        Roxy! Oh, I can't stand it. I'm going to kill myself like Judas and get out
                        of the way. It's all there is left to do. Poor, poor girl! If I'd only died
                        a year ago!" And Mark laid his head on the table and burst into tears,
                        sobbing convulsively, only coming back now and then to the same pitcous
                        refrain: Poor Roxy!
                    Whittaker caught sight of the loaded saddle-pistol on the table and
                        shuddered. He had not come too soon, then. He left Mark to his tears for a
                        while. But, when the gust of weeping had spent itself, he took the word
                        again.
                    "What do you want to kill yourself for?"
                    "What's the use of living when you despise yourself, and everybody despises
                        you? I'm not fit to live, and you know it, Mr. Whittaker."
                    
                    "Very likely. Few men are quite fit to live. But let us say that you are very
                        bad. You have acted very badly. If you did not feel so
                        much ashamed of yourself, I should try to make you ashamed. But you are only
                        adding one bad action to another in killing yourself. It's not a brave thing
                        to do."
                    "It may not be right, but it is the bravest thing left for me, I should
                        say."
                    "Well, it's braver than some other things. But when you talk about killing
                        yourself because you despise yourself and everybody despises you, you are
                        only running away from the natural penalty of your sin. You hate yourself;
                        very goodï¿½you ought to hate yourself. But you ought to have courage to
                        live and face your own contempt, and that of everybody else. That is the
                        brave way. The sin having been committed, the very best thing left is to
                        take patiently the punishment."
                    "Then I'm a coward. I suppose I'm about as bad as a man can get to be."
                    "No," said Whittaker, speaking slowly, as he always did when theoretical
                        theology came into conflict with practical wisdom. "I don't think you're all
                        bad, by any means. You're a good deal better with that pistol there by you
                        than you have been heretofore."
                    Bonamy looked puzzled.
                    "I like you better now, because you loathe your evil. The time has been when
                        you were just as bad as now,ï¿½capable of this same sin,ï¿½but entirely
                        satisfied with yourself. Isn't that so?"
                    Mark only shivered.
                    "You are no worse to-night than you were a year ago. But then you were blind.
                        Now you see. Thank God that you see! The sight is not a cheerful one, but a
                        man  who sees is worth a dozen blind men. Now
                        don't be a coward, and run away from the work before you."
                    "What work?"
                    "What specific work, I don't know. You built on sand. The house has gone to
                        pieces. The first work is to clear away the rubbish, and get ready to build
                        on a deeper foundation. The rubbish heap is hateful, but it is yours. You've
                        no right to run away and leave it, a ghastly eye-sore to everybody else,
                        have you?"
                    Mark leaned his head down again on the table, and groaned. Then, after a long
                        time, he relieved himself by confessing many things to the minister.
                    Whittaker talked with him thus till the light of the May morning shone in at
                        the window. Then he rose up to go.
                    "Will you see Roxy?" asked Mark, with downcast eyes and utter dejection of
                        voice.
                    "Sooner or later, yes. I will see her to-day, if you have anything for me to
                        say to her."
                    "I don't want to ask anything of her. She did just right. Tell her that I say
                        so. But I wish she could only know that I had turned back yesterday with a
                        full purpose of telling her everything. It would not have changed anything,
                        but I wanted to confess. It is the hardest part of this trouble that I did
                        not confess before. But she is so good I did not dare to."
                    "It was not brave of you, Mr. Bonamy."
                    "I see. I must make up my mind that I am a coward, besides all the rest." It
                        was the one sensitive point of pride left in the humiliated man. He was
                        nettled that Whittaker thought him cowardly.
                    "Good-bye!" Whittaker held out his hand.
                    "It was very good of you, Mr. Whittaker, to come  here to-night. I did not deserve it. I had no claim on you."
                    "Promise me one thing." And Whittaker held fast to Mark's hand. "No
                        suicide."
                    "I do not want to make any promise," said Mark, stubbornly.
                    "Let me tell you, Mr. Bonamy, that there is a brave life before you. I think
                        the best of your life is to come."
                    "There could be nothing worse than my life so far, unless it is to live on
                        with the feeling that I had broken the heart of that poor, good, glorious
                        Roxy that was mine."
                    Whittaker drew him to the porch.
                    "It was black night an hour ago. If a man had said to you, 'There will never
                        be any daylight,' you would have called him a fool for his unbelief. I tell
                        you, friend, that already I see the sunlight on the clouds over your life.
                        You are down in the dust. That is the best of it. The old life must be all
                        destroyed first. I cannot tell you how, but there is a better life for you
                        yet to come. I am sure of it."
                    "But my wretched Roxy!"
                    "You can't help what is gone. Roxy has suffered, and will suffer terribly. It
                        is awful to think of it. But Roxy has a brave soul. She will get good even
                        out of such sorrow. Now wait and suffer your part like a man. Don't run out
                        of the fight; stand fire to the bitter end."
                    Just at that moment, the first beams of the sun struck the tops of the
                        Kentucky hills, and put a halo about them. A thin white mist of lace-like
                        thinness, partly veiled the smooth surface of the river. The whole landscape
                        seemed to be coming out of obscurity into glory. The bluebirds and the
                        yellow-hammers and the queevy-quavies  began
                        to sing in the orchard, and the great swarms of blackbirds perching in the
                        sycamores waked up in a chorus of "chip! chip chulurr-rr-rr-rr!"
                    "What a beautiful morning! God is good!" said Whittaker. "Take heart a
                        little. Promise for one week that you will bear with your despair. No
                        suicide for a week!"
                    "I promise," said Mark, faintly, looking wistfully out on the river, changing
                        from gold to silvery whiteness.
                    "You'll lend me the pistol for a week?"
                    "You can't trust me, then?"
                    "If you can trust yourself."
                    Mark felt the rebuke, and brought out the great saddle-pistol. Whittaker
                        again shook hands and started down the walk, carrying the pistol awkwardly
                        enough. Along the street he met sleepy-looking boys going out for the cows,
                        and people with baskets on their arms hurrying to the little market-house.
                        They all stared with wonder at the minister with a "horse-pistol in his
                        hand."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER L.
                    A WOMAN THAT WAS A SINNER.
                    ROXY was sleeping heavily, after a weary night, and
                        Twonnet left her in charge of the stepmother and Jemima, while she came home
                        to breakfast. The breakfast at Lefaure's was eaten on all pleasant mornings
                        in the open vine-covered porch overlooking the water, and here Mr. Whittaker
                        and Twonnet met after their watching. None of the family were aware of
                        Whittaker's night walk to Bonamy's. The scandal was not a subject that could
                        be conveniently discussed at table, but Mrs. Lefaure could not forbear some
                        lively expressions of her hatred of Mark.
                    "You forget," said Whittaker, rather timidly, as was his wont in
                        contradiction, "that Bonamy must suffer dreadfully."
                    "He ought to. It serves him right," said Mrs. Lefaure, and Twonnet's face
                        showed that she cordially agreed with her mother. Whittaker was silent. He
                        saw that any further advance of a skirmish line in that direction would
                        certainly provoke a lively fire in front. Lefaure, who enjoyed a controversy
                        keenly when he was not a party to it, tried in vain to encourage the
                        minister to make further reply, but he could not. Twonnet thought, in her
                        woman's indignation, that it was a shame for such a man as Mr. Whittaker to
                        take up for Bonamy. She had always prophesied evil of this marriage. Now the
                        evil had come, she felt justified in unlimited hatred of Mark. In
                        proportion,  therefore, to her admiration for
                        Whittaker, was her aversion to his softening in any way, Mark's guilt.
                        Hanging was too good for him, she was sure. Perhaps, also, there was just a
                        little bit of pride in Twonnet, a sense of the importance of her part as
                        next friend and champion of Roxy.
                    But at this stage of the conversation, the little red-faced Louis, who had
                        been foraging in Mr. Whittaker's room on a general search after information,
                        came down the stairs with large eyes and a look more apoplectic than usual,
                        and burst into speech in a polyglot fashion, thus:
                    "Papa, il y a dans la chambre de Monsieur Veetaker un fort grand
                        horse-pistol!"
                    "Que dis-tu?" said his father, giving attention at the same time to the
                        filling up of a plate of breakfast for the venerable grandfather, whose
                        ailments kept him in bed in the morning. "What do you say, Louis?" he asked,
                        in a half-amused way, supposing that the little Paul Pry had either misused
                        words, or mistaken something else for a horse-pistol.
                    "I must put that away," said Whittaker, rising and excusing himself. "It is
                        loaded."
                    When lie returned to the mystified group at the table, he said briefly that
                        the pistol belonged to Mark Bonamy.
                    "How did you get it?" asked Twonnet.
                    "I persuaded him to let me have it."
                    "You have been there then?" said Mr. Lefaure.
                    "Yes, certainly."
                    Twonnet's indignation toward Whittaker died out at once, giving place to a
                        humbling sense of his superiority. If there is one thing a woman cannot
                        stand, it is bloodshedï¿½unless it be upon a large scale. Twonnet's hatred
                        of Mark changed to pity as she imagined him despairing  and seeking death, and though, a moment ago, she was sure that
                        he deserved capital punishment, she was horrified at thought of his
                        committing suicide alone in a deserted house. Of course this sudden change
                        was inconsistent, but it is one of the advantages of women, that, not
                        pretending to be logical, they can change front on the instant, when they
                        see fit. Twonnet saw the wisdom of Whittaker's course, and, comprehending
                        the excellence of the motives she had mistaken before, she made Whittaker a
                        hero by brevet, on the field, investing him, in her imagination, with a
                        complete outfit of all the qualities necessary to the character. For she was
                        a woman, and hero-making is a woman's work; even your sensible and practical
                        woman must take to hero-making, sooner or later. And a man who steals out at
                        night, by a sort of prescience, at the very right moment of moments, when
                        the pistol is all loaded and leveled at the victim's head, throws up the
                        suicidal arm, wrests the weapon from his grasp, pacifies the desperate
                        wretch, and then walks stealthily away with the great pistol to his own
                        home,ï¿½what is he but a hero of heroes? The impulsive Twonnet had often
                        feltï¿½one of her temperament could not but feelï¿½the attraction of a man
                        of such steadiness and reserve as Whittaker. But now forthwith, she began to
                        build him a shrine in her heart. And this in the face of all the
                        contradictions of her practical good sense, which did not fail to warn her
                        of the danger of premature shrine-building on the part of young women. But
                        Twonnet remembered gratefully that he had praised her the day before. And it
                        was something now to be associated with him in trying to bring some good out
                        of this great evil.
                    "Are you coming to see Roxy to-day?" she asked, as she prepared to return to
                        her charge.
                    
                    "I hardly think so. I am ready whenever Mrs. Bonamy wants me to give her any
                        help she needs. But she needs less help than anybody in this wretched
                        affair."
                    "But what can we do for Roxy? How is all this coming out? She. will die if
                        she lies there that way."
                    "I don't know how things will come out. We can't do much for her. But I hope
                        that she will not lie helpless long. She is the one strong one among them
                        all, and when the shock is past I have hope that she will see, better than I
                        can, what ought to be done. When she sees it, she will do it."
                    "But what ought she to do?"
                    "I don't know. I haven't a notion. I am just learning that general principles
                        don't apply in a case like this. What a thing it is to learn that difficult
                        cases have a law of their own! If anybody can find out what is right, Roxy
                        will. There must be a right even in such a wretched state of things."
                    "I don't see what she can do."
                    "Neither do I. But if she can't do anything, then nothing can be done, I
                        suppose. We must look to the strong, and not to the weak, for
                        deliverance."
                    "But she isn't to blame, and it seems hardly fair that the burden should rest
                        on her."
                    "That is the very reason, I suppose. Only the good can save the bad. But
                        here, I am trying to apply general principles. Let's wait till Roxy shows
                        the way. She has made great mistakes of judgment, but in matters of right
                        and wrong, she has a wonderful intuition. After she got free from the false
                        shackles of other people's rules, her treatment of Mark was just right. She
                        won him so completely that, now she has deserted him, he is full of praises
                        of her. And if the gossips had only stayed away  two hours, she would have heard the whole thing from him. He was coming
                        home to tell her."
                    Something in this high praise of Roxy wounded Twonnet just a little. Her
                        position as faithful next friend did not seem so important as she had hoped.
                        Whittaker had given her no word of praise. "It's all Roxy, Roxy," she
                        murmured to herself as she went toward Adams's house. For what is the use of
                        setting up a private hero and building a shrine, if, after all, your hero
                        will give you no look of recognition for your pains?
                    Conscience is a task-master with a strange logic. Perform at its bidding one
                        hard thing and it does not reason from your performance to reward or repose.
                        Its ergo is turned the other way. Thou hast done well, ergo thou shalt do better. Up! get thee out again, till I
                        find the limit of thy strength. Blessed is he who accepts the challenge.
                        Whittaker's theory that a physician ought to go to the sick and not to the
                        well is one not very much in vogue among parsons and churches nowadays:
                        witness the rank growth of steeples in the well-to-do quarters of
                        citiesï¿½mortgaged and bankrupted steeples, too many of them. But then the
                        rich man enters not the kingdom of heaven easilyï¿½let us not grudge him his
                        lion's share of the missionary labor of the world, and let us not blame
                        those zealous and self-denying men who hear the voice of the Lord forever
                        assuring them that they are commissioned to the church of St. Dives in the
                        West. It is only commonplace and old-fashioned men like Whittaker who must
                        be trying to reach the publicans and sinners of the nineteenth century, and
                        who have idiotic notions that the lost sheep and the prodigal son have
                        applications to our time.
                    But Whittaker was just foolish enough to set out on  this morning to find Nancy Kirtley, and to see what could be
                        done for her. First finding Haz on his dray, he entered into conversation
                        with him, asking him where his sister was to be found. This catechism of
                        Cain was evidently very troublesome to Kirtley, who would have felt some
                        brotherly interest in his sister had it not been that Mrs. Haz felt
                        otherwise. But there cannot be more than one head to a family. Haz had to
                        feel that Nancy was a great disgrace, fit only to be put out-of-doors,
                        because his wife had settled that matter. When Simon says wig-wag who shall
                        refuse to obey? He answered very briefly that Nancy had left the house in
                        the night and had not come back. To avoid further questions he drove
                        off.
                    Then Whittaker went to Mr. Highbury, the elder. Did he go in a sort of
                        desperate sarcasm to Highbury for help? Or, did he desire to teach the elder
                        a lesson? Did he think that after all the Pharisee is quite as much a lost
                        sheep as the publican or the harlot? And in seeking to set the Pharisee to
                        find the lost was he seeking also to get the Pharisee to find himself, lost
                        in the dreary wilderness of his self-conceit? At any rate he took Highbury
                        into the back part of the store and told him that he had seen Mark the night
                        before, and related to him something of the circumstances. Mr. Highbury
                        thought it quite proper indeed, that a minister should try to reclaim
                        Bonamy. For Bonamy was a man and not a woman, which makes a great
                        difference. And he was a man of respectable family, and consequently an
                        appropriate subject for labor. Besides, it was stealing a march on the
                        Methodists, who would see that they were neglecting their own flock, and so
                        on. But he cautioned Whittaker not to see Mrs. Bonamy. It might make
                        talk.
                    "I am not going to see Mrs. Bonamy unless I'm specially  sent for," said the minister. "But I want you to go with me to
                        see Nancy Kirtley. It is not quite prudent for me to go alone, perhaps."
                    Highbury was silent. His countenance expressed in a splintered and
                        fragmentary way half a dozen different emotions. That Whittaker should,
                        under any circumstances, propose to see a girl of her low social position
                        was a surprise to him. Such people might be saved perhaps, but it was not
                        likely; and if they were saved it would no doubt be by such agencies as
                        illiterate circuit-riders, and not by college-bred men. That Whittaker
                        should converse with a dishonored woman was as much a matter of disgust to
                        Highbury, the elder, as similar conduct had been to Simon, the Pharisee.
                        That he should go now to see her while all the town was ablaze with the
                        scandal, and, worst of all, that he should venture to ask him, Highbury,
                        merchant, elder, well-to-do, and one of God's elect, besides, to go with
                        him, was beyond all comprehension. Nevertheless, he looked round anxiously
                        for some logical ground on which to base his refusal. He knew that Whittaker
                        was a man singularly insensible to the logic of worldly prudence in such
                        matters.
                    "I don't think it would do any good for us to see such a woman," he said,
                        hesitating and reddening.
                    "Why, you know how tender and forgiving Christ was to such people," answered
                        Whittaker.
                    Did ever anybody hear such preposterous reasoning? Is Christ to be quoted as
                        an example to a respectable church member nowadays? Christ lived two
                        thousand years ago, or thereabouts, as everybody knows, and the women that
                        were "sinners in the town" in his day wereï¿½well, they were Jews, don't you
                        know? Something quite different from wicked people in our time. Highbury  felt all this rather than thought it. And
                        what he said was something else.
                    "I tell you what, Mr. Whittaker, there's great danger of fanaticism in
                        talking that way. We've got to be careful to keep from bringing dishonor on
                        the cause of our Lord Jesus Christ."
                    "Why, Mr. Highbury, that's just what Christ did all the time. He spent his
                        time in bringing his own cause into disrepute whenever he could do any good
                        by it."
                    "You talk very well, Mr. Whittaker. But you're not practical. It's the great
                        failing of ministers that they're apt to be unpractical. Now, this is a
                        practical age and I'm a practical man; I know what people say about
                        ministers and such things. And I know it's no use for you to go to see a bad
                        woman."
                    Here Highbury caught sight of a customer waiting for him and he hurried out
                        to the front part of the store, where he was soon engaged in tearing off
                        "bit calico" and selling coffee and nails and clocks and ribbons and vinegar
                        and boots and clothes-lines and candy. As for Whittaker, he turned away and
                        went to seek the lost alone.
                    He found Nancy at last, sitting under the bank on a log, gazing in dogged
                        sullenness at the water. She had had no breakfast, and she did not know or
                        care where she should find shelter. If only she could find some way of
                        gratifying a resentment that was hardening into a desperate and malicious
                        and universal animosity.
                    "What do you want?" she growled, as he approached.
                    "I want to do anything I can for you. You'll get sick sitting here with no
                        breakfast. There's rain coming on now."
                    "That's none of your business."
                    "Why don't you go back to Haz's?"
                    
                    "Because his wife's the very devil. Everybody's as bad as bad can be. Roxy
                        Bonamy stole my bean. Everybody fooled weth me. Now everybody hates me, an'
                        Mark, he wont give me no satisfaction, an' Lathers, he tried to make a fool
                        out of me. Rocky Fork folks laughs at me an' town-folks wont come a-nigh me.
                        Dog-on 'em all, I say! I'm agoin' to git squar' someways. I'll kill some on
                        'em. See ef I don't. They don't nobody keer fer me, an' I don' keer fer
                        nobody."
                    Whittaker could not persuade her to go back to Haz's at first. After a while
                        he went himself to mollify Haz's wife. The woman was loud-tongued and not
                        very delicate in her scolding about Nance. But she had great respect for a
                        man that wore good clothes, and she had a certain awe of a minister. By dint
                        of agreeing with her as far as he could, and sympathizing with her in all
                        her troubles and her disgrace, he persuaded her to consent for Nance to come
                        back on condition, as Mrs. Kirtley stated it, that she should "hold her
                        everlastin' jaw."
                    Then Whittaker returned to Nancy. Perhaps it was the softening effect of his
                        kindness, or the change of mood produced by being obliged to talk, or the
                        sense of utter desertion when Whittaker had walked away without explaining
                        where he was goingï¿½some or all of these had so moved her that when he came
                        back she was crying in hearty fashion. It was a selfish cry, no doubt, but
                        there was at least some touch of half-human feeling in the self-pitying
                        tears.
                    "Poor woman!" said Whittaker. "God help you! You have got a hard time."
                    "Haint I, though?" and she wept again. She had come to a point where pity was
                        grateful to her.
                    He told her of the compact he had made on her behalf  with Mrs. Kirtley that Nancy should go back and not quarrel.
                        But to all his persuasions she returned a negative shake of the head, while
                        she kept on crying. The sense of her shame had at last entered her soul. She
                        felt the loathing with which all the world regarded her. This might result
                        in some good, Whittaker thought. But the chances were that it would result
                        in desperation and fiendishness unless she could be brought to have a little
                        hope.
                    The old-fashioned way that he had of thinking about Jesus Christ as though
                        his life and acts were an example for himself, brought about a curious train
                        of reasoning. The girl felt herself an outlaw. She could only be helped as
                        Jesus had healed the outcast. He remembered how the Christ had broken the
                        law by touching a leper. Some one must show a friendly cordiality to this
                        woman who was a sinner, like the one that wept on the feet of the Master. He
                        shrunk from the guilty girl in spite of himself. She felt it. He must
                        conquer first the Pharisee in himself. After much hesitation and shrinking
                        he approached her and laid his hand upon her arm. It produced a sudden
                        revulsion.
                    "Come, you must go with me," he said.
                    She got up and went with him as she would have gone at that moment with any
                        one good or evil who offered her a return to human fellowship. Luckily for
                        Whittaker's courage, Haz's house was not far away and Slabtown was almost
                        deserted except at steamboat time. He led her in as tenderly as he could if
                        she had been a little child. She immediately crouched weeping in the chimney
                        corner, and Whittaker sat down on a stool by the hearth. He talked with the
                        virago sister-in-law until she became cheerful and offered Nancy some food.
                        Then he shook  hands with both of them and
                        departed, the wife of Haz standing in the door and saying as he
                        disappeared:
                    "Well! Ef that air haint a man now, they haint none. Lord, what a man he is
                        now, ef he is a down-east Yankee! Haint he, Nance?"
                    But the girl only kept on crying and said nothing.
                    "Youï¿½you haint got a good word her nobody," broke out Mrs. Kirtley.
                    But Nancy, weeping still, made no reply. A shower of rain was coming on
                        out-of-doors, and the storm of Mrs. Kirtley's indignation continued to beat
                        within.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LI.
                    SALVATION BY HOOK AND BY CROOK.
                    "FATHER MILEY," the old Methodist
                        minister, "super-annuated" and living in the town, visited Roxy every day.
                        There was nothing to offer but commonplace consolations and exhortations,
                        but the old man's gentle words of sympathy and his pathetic prayers did her
                        good while he was with her. Twonnet thought that Whittaker strained his
                        delicacy too far in keeping away so long. She told Roxy something of
                        Whittaker's visit to Mark. And Roxy set herself to wondering also why Mr.
                        Whittaker had not come. But besides his fear of reproach if he should hasten
                        his visit, he was afraid of saying prematurely what he had to say. He sent
                        her some word of friendly sympathy by Twonnet each day. But it was quite
                        possible to one of his cool and reserved temperament to wait till his
                        counsel should be needed.
                    Roxy had the hardest time of all, in that she had nothing to do. Bonamy, in
                        all his distress, busied himself in settling his business. There was one
                        purpose clearly fixed in his mind. He meant to leave Luzerne. Whether to go
                        by steamboat or by suicide he had not decided, but he was resolved to flee
                        from surroundings that were hateful to him. The embarrassment lay in
                        arranging his affairs so as to provide for the wife who would accept no
                        provision, and to settle also in an honorable way his obligations to the
                        unreasonable and vindictive Nancy.
                    
                    Nancy's father, moved by some reviving parental affection,ï¿½possibly also by
                        some prospect of getting something from Mark,ï¿½took her back to Rocky Fork,
                        where at least she was free from the taunts of Haz Kirtley's wife, and where
                        she could shut herself in from the sight of her deriding acquaintances.
                        McGowan, too, became a little more peaceable now that Nancy was at home. He
                        postponed his revenge, but did not give it up.
                    All the day following that of Roxy's desertion of Mark's house, she tried in
                        vain to interest herself in some occupation. She went down to the
                        sitting-room with its long clock and its bright rag-carpet, its homely
                        old-fashioned pictures and the window where the honeysuckles grew. She tried
                        as of old to arrange things, but she sank at once into listlessness and fell
                        to looking out of the window at the hills and the sky. Then she asked Jemima
                        for some sewing. But she did not take ten stitches. Her hands lay idle in
                        her lap and she sat for half an hour at a time without making any motion,
                        except to sigh heavily. One cannot take up an old life where it was left
                        off. Roxy was not the same Roxy. The whole memory of what had intervened and
                        the change in her very nature wrought by it rendered the old life
                        impossible. She could never more be a young Saint Theresa, romantically
                        longing for martyrdom; she was a full-grown woman with large and sorrowful
                        experience. The girl may be developed into the womanï¿½the woman cannot be
                        repressed into the girl again. It is the inevitable law of all progression
                        in character and experience. The sun will never return a single degree on
                        the dial of Ahaz, for all our praying and turning of our faces to the wall.
                        In this motionless despondency passed the two days following Roxy's return
                        to her father's house. Friends enough came to see her. Most of them  volunteered approval of her course in leaving
                        her husband, and this approval for some reason always hurt her. Some of them
                        angered her by advising a divorce, even assuring her that she should insist
                        on her share of the property. And some who were theologically inclined, told
                        her on the authority of certain preachers and commentators that if she had
                        remained with her husband she would have committed a crime herself. From her
                        aversion to this sort of consolation it came that her hours with her friends
                        were even more intolerable than the time of loneliness and listless
                        inactivity. She wished, like the much be-comforted man in the land of Uz,
                        for a surcease of sympathy.
                    On the third day, which was Saturday, she became restless. She told her
                        father that she ought to do something. The old eagerness for a definite
                        purpose large enough to tax her energies awakened.
                    Adams grew uneasy as he saw this restlessness, and went on his own account to
                        ask Whittaker to come and advise her.
                    "I thought you would have come before," said Roxy, when she saw him.
                    "Perhaps I ought to have come, but I thought however much you might suffer,
                        you needed the services of a minister least of all. I went especially to the
                        weak and the guilty. I waited until you wanted me. I thought you would rouse
                        yourself after awhile, and then maybe I could do some good in coming."
                    "Mr. Whittaker, I want to do something. I shall go mad, if I sit here long
                        and think."
                    "Of course you must do something. That is natural to you, and it's good that
                        you've come to that so soon. It is a healthy sign."
                    
                    "What can I do? I cannot interest myself in anything."
                    "You must work for somebody else. That is your remedy."
                    "But I don't know anybody that is in trouble. Do you?"
                    Whittaker was silent for a long time. Then he said, deliberately:
                    "I only know two people besides yourself in great trouble. You know
                        them."
                    Roxy colored, and shuddered a little. She tried to understand what this word
                        might signify. It was only after some effort that she could speak.
                    "You know I can't help them."
                    "I don't see how you can, myself. I half hoped that you could see some way.
                        But if you don't see any, I suppose there is none."
                    Roxy was about to resent the intimation that she ought to do anything for
                        Mark or Nancy; but something in Whittaker's words impressed her. The habit
                        of conscientious and self-denying action made her mind receptive to any
                        suggestion of difficult duty, and there was comfort in Whittaker's
                        deferential confidence in her.
                    "Do you think I did wrong, then, to come away? I couldn't
                        stay."
                    "You did just what I should expect of you. I couldn't say
                        more. Twonnet told you, I suppose, that Mark rode hard that day to get home
                        and tell you himself. He was too late, and he deserved all he has suffered.
                        He knows that, and respectsï¿½even admiresï¿½your course."
                    "But you don't think I ought to go back."
                    "I don't think your husband has the slightest claim on you. I only say that I
                        do not see anything but evil in  this
                        business, unless you see some way to turn it to good."
                    "But why am I bound to do anything? I haven't done the
                        evil."
                    "Only because you are the innocent one, and the strong one. But I don't want
                        you to think that I say you are bound to do anything. I
                        don't think you are. I am not sure you can do anything. I cannot see at all
                        further than I have said. I'm sure you'll do whatever you find to do, and
                        you have done all one could demand. If there is anything else you can do, it
                        is a matter of privilege, rather than of duty. The highest actions are of
                        that kind."
                    "I'm afraid you've added to my trouble," she said, as Whittaker rose to go.
                        "But it is very good of you to have so much confidence in me, though it is
                        of no use. I shall never go back to Mark, and I don't see what I can do for
                        him."
                    "I do not think of any advice I can give. Do not feel any ought about anything. Be as quiet as you can over Sunday. Then, if
                        you feel that you might be helped by any advice of mine on Monday, I will
                        come again. But do not trust my judgment; do not let anybody dictate. Follow
                        the impulse of your own sense of what you can and ought to do. That is the
                        only guide in a case like this." Then, suddenly dropping for an instant his
                        reserve, he took her offered hand, and said, with much feeling: "And God
                        help you, my poor, dear, good friend, and give you peace."
                    It was the first word of sympathy Roxy had received that touched the great
                        deep of sorrow in her heart. The unexpectedness of the tone, from one so
                        quiet and shy as Whittaker, the instantaneous revelation of intense
                        sympathy, produced a quick reaction in her mood; and when  he was gone, she buried her face in her
                        hands, and wept tears that were medicine to her spirit.
                    With the tears came also, by degrees, the clearer vision that Whittaker
                        looked for. The source of his wise prescience of the action of Roxy's moral
                        nature is not far to seek. A man of high conscience is able to forecast
                        something of the movements of one whose moral orbit is nearly in the same
                        plane. For himself, this whole affair had come so close to him, that it
                        produced a powerful awakening. The half-finished sermon on the subject of
                        "Salvation by Faith Only," on which he had been writing, seemed to him
                        uninteresting. The metaphysics of salvation are not of so much consequence,
                        when one is engaged in the practice of actually saving men. He felt rising
                        in him the rebellion of the practical man against the theoretical, and, had
                        he given expression to his real feelings, he would have discoursed perhaps
                        on "Salvation by Hook or by Crook," so important did it seem to him to save
                        men by any rope or pole that would reach them, rather than to stand
                        philosophizing about it, after the manner of a Reformer or a Church Father
                        of seventy-four guns. He could not preach the sermon; it was like pine
                        shavings in his mouth. It was now too late to write another. He I went into
                        the pulpit on Sunday morning, and read the story of the woman that wept on
                        the feet of Jesus in the house of Simon the Respectable, and then he read
                        the parable of the two debtors, spoken to this Deacon Simon Pharisee. It was
                        not a sermon but something better,ï¿½living words out of the living heart of
                        a man. He tried not to be personal, but Highbury made up his mind that this
                        kind of talking was not suitable to a decorous church, and that he must see
                        that Whittaker's relation with the church in Luzerne should be dissolved. A
                        man who, instead  of denouncing the
                        Pharisees,ï¿½those people that hated and killed Christ,ï¿½should venture to
                        intimate that there were Pharisees nowadays even in churches of his own
                        denomination, was not to be endured. There is no safe ground for a good
                        sound preacher, but to attack ancient wickedness and the sins and
                        superstitions of foreign countries. If he must come closer home, there are
                        denominations rival to his own, that need scathing. But somehow the people
                        in Whittaker's little congregation were very much moved by this sermon, and
                        from that time the church began to fill up, and who does not know that full
                        pews hide heresies?
                    But that Sunday was no day of rest for Roxy. When Whittaker had suggested
                        that Roxy might do something to help the guilty ones, it was only with a
                        vague notion that any act of forgiveness would do good. He was sincere when
                        he said that he could not see what she could do. It was only his blind faith
                        in the power of Roxy's enthusiasm and high moral aspiration that had
                        awakened this indefinite hope. And all this Sunday long, the old martyr
                        spirit of Roxy's girlhood had been coming back. It was not Texas, now. Why
                        should she, who had always sighed to dare great things and to make great
                        sacrifices,ï¿½why should she not n-w put down her just
                        pride and anger, and, by the sacrifice, save those who had crucified her?
                        Every great possibility is a challenge to an ambitious spirit. She had
                        wanted an extraordinary field, and had dreamed romantic dreams of suffering
                        for Christ. And now Texas had come to her very door!
                    All that Sunday forenoon Twonnet did not come. Roxy must talk to somebody.
                        She told her step-mother first that she was thinking whether she ought not
                        go back to Mark and help him to do better. Mrs. Adams was surprised,  but she only answered "Very likely," which
                        meaningless response irritated Roxy. Jemima thought for her part that men
                        were not to be trusted anyways. There was Judas Iscariot and Benedict Arnold
                        and George the Third, to say nothing of John Tyler, at that very time a
                        "renegade president." And Roxy's father denounced bitterly a plan that he
                        had dreaded from the beginning. Elder Highbury, to make some atonement for
                        having refused to see Nancy Kirtley, condescended to call on Roxy Bonamy
                        this Sunday afternoon, the store being closed and there being nothing else
                        to do. He assured her that she had done right in leaving, and he hoped she
                        would never go back, because it was the opinion of many good preachers whom
                        he cited that to return to a faithless husband or wife was a great sin. The
                        Methodist class-leader expressed similar views. These opinions from those
                        who did not know that she was meditating such a step staggered and
                        confounded the scrupulous Roxy.
                    But Mrs. Hanks put the finishing blow to her plan. For she came also, as in
                        duty bound, and she told Roxy confidentially that she thought it very wise
                        not to begin suit for a divorce. Roxy could get her share of the property.
                        But it was better to be forgiving. Mark was a good sort of a fellow, anyhow.
                        A great many women had to forgive such things. A body had to put up with
                        something. Mark was well off and very smart, and if Roxy should go back,
                        why, all the property would be hers, and besides, you know, grass widows are
                        not much thought of.
                    This logic of laxity and pity of the devil made Roxy hate her half-formed
                        purpose to return. It would seem to such people as her aunt to be a purely
                        selfish one. And Mrs. Hanks had made it seem so bad to Roxy that she
                        surrendered the thought of returning to her husband.
                    
                    She had tried the cage of circumstance, and the bars wounded her but would
                        not yield to all her beating. She sank back again into listless despair. She
                        did not talk, she only sighed.
                    When darkness came, the father went out to take the air, and the step-mother
                        went to meeting. There were no longer any visitors in the house, and Roxy
                        sat in the old sitting-room with her hands crossed in her lap in a
                        hopelessness that had no ray of light in it. The room was the same as in the
                        years before, but she who had dreamed there of high achievement was now a
                        broken-hearted prisoner of evil circumstance. It seemed to her that the old
                        clock would kill her. It was so long in swinging from one tick to another.
                        What eternities seconds come to be when one sits with hands crossed, the
                        despairing palms upward,ï¿½sits thus and sighs with no hope in life but to
                        sit thus and sigh! The "foreverï¿½never" of the clock was to Roxy a forever
                        of perdition and a never of hope. Jemima fell into a slumber, while Roxy
                        continued to watch the slow-beating and awful clock.
                    Since there was no hope of any great change in Roxy's life, she looked
                        eagerly for small and unimportant interruptions of her sorrow. She wished
                        that her father would come back, or that Mrs. Rachel would return from
                        church. In thus wishing she slowly turned her head toward the front window.
                        It was the very honeysuckle-covered window into which her lover had looked
                        on that day that he brought her the delusive good news.
                    She turned her eyes in a purposeless way to this window. She quickly pressed
                        her hands across her heart and gasped for breath. There, framed in the
                        darkness of the clouded night, was the face of Mark.
                    It was close against the window pane, the eager eyes  were fastened on her. In an instant more the face had
                        disappeared.
                    Roxy screamed and fell fainting on the floor. Jemima ran to her assistance.
                        And when later Roxy explained to the family that she had seen Mark's face at
                        the window, they were sure that it was an illusion of her fancy. For,
                        besides the improbability of it, Jemima was facing the window all the time
                        and had seen nothing at all.
                    But in that one view of the face, Roxy read all the torture that Mark had
                        endured. Contrasted as it was in her mind with the old memory of the happy
                        and hopeful Mark of the missionary days, looking into that very window, it
                        was a vivid picture of hopeless wretchedness. All the mighty pity of her
                        nature was roused. There must be something she could do to draw this wrecked
                        husband of hers out of his living perdition. That long sleepless night she
                        lay and planned, and waited for the morning that she might advise and
                        execute.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LII.
                    AN EXPEDITION.
                    WHEN Whittaker rose on Monday morning, he found Adams
                        waiting for him on the porch below. It was but half-past five o'clock, but
                        the shoe-maker had waited half an hour already. This sorrow had moved him so
                        deeply that he could no longer disguise his sensitiveness under a rugged and
                        contradictory manner, as was his wont.
                    "Roxy would like to see you, Mr. Whittaker," he said. "And I want to tell you
                        before you go, that I think she is getting a notion that she ought to go
                        back to Mark. I want you to persuade her to stay where she is."
                    Whittaker hesitated.
                    "Is it quite fair," he said, after awhile, "for you to bargain with a doctor
                        beforehand that he shall prescribe such and such remedies? You must leave me
                        free."
                    "To be sure, to be sure," grumbled Adams. "But why should you want her to
                        leave her father's house to go back to such a man? Why can't she be
                        comfortable where she is?"
                    "We have to take things as we find them. You don't grumble at a man for
                        having big or little feet. You have to fit the feet he brings. I leave it to
                        your good sense whether Roxy is likely to be happy at home."
                    "She was once. I wish she'd stayed there."
                    "But she can't be contented at home nowï¿½she can't blot out the years since
                        she was married."
                    
                    "But think of the humiliation of her going back."
                    "Yes, I know."
                    "You are going to advise her to go back, I suppose?"
                    "No, I can't do that. That is a hard road, and I don't know how strong she
                        is. Let her take her own course; right for one is wrong for another. She is
                        an extraordinary woman, Mr. Adams."
                    Adams made no reply, and they took their way to his house. Roxy was pacing
                        the floor when they came in.
                    "Mr. Whittaker," she said anxiously, "Mr. Highbury says, and other people
                        say, that it would be a sin for me to forgive Mark, and to go back. I want
                        you to tell me what you think about it."
                    "It is never wrong to do good. It cannot be wrong to do good."
                    "I am going back to Mark, then," she said, swiftly. "He looked through that
                        window at me last night, and his face was so wretched that I couldn't sleep
                        all night. Surely it can't be wrong to help him out of his misery."
                    "There is no law against your trying to be as forgiving and as good as God.
                        You must judge whether you can you finish this task you are
                        undertaking."
                    Roxy gave her arms an excited twitch, stretching them downward their full
                        length. Her eyes shone with a feverish luster, and Whittaker could not but
                        observe that dilatation of the nostrils and wide openness of the eyelids
                        that expressed a deep and eager excitement. After awhile she spoke, in a
                        lower voice:
                    "Where is Nancy Kirtley?"
                    "She is at her father's."
                    Roxy looked puzzled.
                    "I must see her first," she said. "I have a plan, and I must see her."
                    
                    Whittaker looked in her eyes. The lids drooped over pupils that seemed drawn
                        to a point. He half-guessed the purpose she was trying to conceal.
                    "Dear friend," he said, "I think I know what your plan is. It is a hard road
                        you are about to travel. Better to draw back now than to make matters worse
                        by failure, after a while. I dare not advise you to do such a thing. It
                        frightens me to think of it."
                    "Will there be anything wrong in it?"
                    "No. But are you able to do it? Are you able to drink this cup and be
                        baptized with this baptism? As for the act you are thinking of in regard to
                        Nancy, it is nobleï¿½the noblest possible."
                    "I would like to do the noblest thing possible, and God helping me, I am
                        going to try." Again she twitched her arms and paced the floor. "Don't
                        discourage me. I know it will be hard. Give me all the encouragement you
                        can. Tell me that God will help."
                    "Indeed he will. Indeed he will," said Whittaker, in a husky voice. The tone
                        of entreaty in which Roxy had spoken deeply moved all in the room. Jemima
                        was standing by the door wiping her eyes with her apron, and Adams was
                        looking out of the window through the tears he could neither keep back nor
                        conceal.
                    "Promise that you will not let me faint by the wayï¿½that you'll give a word
                        of encouragement or reproof, if I falter. For I tell you, Mr. Whittaker,
                        I've thought all night about this, and, let it cost what it will, I mean to
                        undo this evil. If God helps me, I'll live and die to over come it. This is
                        my work, for the rest of my time. Now I have found it, do not say anything
                        to keep me from it."
                    "God forbid!" said Whittaker. But he bowed his head upon his hand.
                    
                    "Roxy," said the old shoe-maker, "you didn't do this thingï¿½this trouble is
                        none of your making. What do you concern yourself about it for? All sinners
                        have to suffer, and Mark only suffers what he deserves."
                    It touched Roxy to hear her father assume a pleading tone. It had never been
                        his custom, in speaking to her, to speak otherwise than with authority.
                    "You are wrong, father," she said, putting her hand tremblingly upon his arm.
                        She had never caressed him so much within her memory. "Mark is not the only
                        one to blame. If I had been wiser, and kinder, and gentler than I was, it
                        would not have happened. It is my fault. If I had only knownï¿½if I had only
                        known! You are too hard on Mark, all of you." She turned toward Whittaker as
                        she uttered this last word.
                    "It is the best sign that you will succeed, Roxy, that you can extenuate his
                        fault. That is a true sign of forgiveness," said Whittaker.
                    "Come right along to breakfast," said Jemima. "The biscuits is gettin'
                        cold."
                    But she said this with so much pathos that her inflection was ludicrously out
                        of keeping with the subject of biscuits.
                    The old shoe-maker went out the door and away to his work fasting. Nothing
                        was so intolerable to him as his own sensibility. Whittaker refused the
                        invitation to breakfast and took his leave. When he had gone out of the
                        house he could not think where Roxy would get a horse for her journey. But
                        just in front of Lefaure's house he met old Bob riding Roxy's own
                        saddle-horse. For Bob had taken advantage of the present disorder of the
                        Bonamy place to treat himself to many and various luxuries. Among others was
                        that of riding when he came into the  town on
                        an errand. Besides the pleasure of a motion that cost him no effort, it
                        suited his dignity to ride.
                    "Hello, Bob!" said Whittaker, "how's Mr. Bonamy?"
                    "Po'ly sah, mighty po'ly. Walks roun' de house mos' all night, sah."
                    "I see you ride a good deal, Bob," said the minister mischievously. "Do you
                        have rheumatism?"
                    "Yes sah, I'se pow'ful weak dese times, sah. But I rides 'cause de hoss needs
                        de exe'cise."
                    "I think Mrs. Bonamy wants that horse to-day, Bob."
                    "She do?" Bob's eyes grew to saucers.
                    "You just come in here an I'll give you a side-saddle and then you take the
                        horse over to Mrs. Bonamy and tell her I sent you."
                    Bob's ardent wish had been that Roxy should return. Now he was like them that
                        dream as he put on the horse an old side-saddle of Mrs. Lefaure's and
                        conveyed the "clay-bank colt," as he called the horse, over to Roxy.
                    Roxy had yielded to the entreaties of Jemima, and was endeavoring to swallow
                        a cup of coffee when the sight of Bob at the kitchen door made her start
                        with surprise, and gave her a feeling of pain and pleasure.
                    "Good morning, Bob," she said.
                    "Good mornin' Mis' Roxy. I'se pow'ful glad to see you ag'in. It's awful
                        solemcholy down to ou' house dese days."
                    "How's Mr. Bonamy?"
                    "Well, now, to tell de trufe, on'y kinder middlin' and sorter fah like you
                        know." Bob thought it best to be diplomatically non-committal. "I see Mr.
                        Whittaker jis now and he thought you mout like to use Dick to-day and I
                        fotch him over for you."
                    "I do want Dick. Just leave him tied out there, Bob."
                    
                    "You fetch him home yo'self, Mis' Roxy? Or you want me to come ahtah
                        him?"
                    "Good Lorgoramity!" said Bob, and this chuckling exclamation as he turned
                        away scratching his head in bewilderment did Roxy good. It was the beginning
                        of new things.
                    She needed the encouragement of a good omen in her long ride over the rocky
                        roads that day. Part of the road she had traveled in happier days on her way
                        to quarterly meetings, and the rest she found by inquiring her way from one
                        little hamlet, or country store, or blacksmith's shop, to another. Behind
                        her she left the village in a state of vague and violent surprise. Bonamy's
                        wife had been seen riding out of town on her own horse. What could it mean?
                        Mrs. Tartrum appointed herself a committee of one to inquire of Rachel Adams
                        at her shop, but as Mrs. Adams did not know for what purpose Roxy had gone
                        to see Nancy, Mother Tartrum set afloat a surmise which soon deepened into a
                        certainty, that Roxy had gone in search of evidence for a divorce suit.
                    But ever as Roxy left the better farm-houses and more cultivated farms of the
                        hill country next the river, and penetrated into the hollows where the
                        ground was steep and rocky and the people ignorant and thriftless, there
                        came over her a spirit of depression and fear. She shrunk from the burden of
                        this day as a martyr from the stake. And as she drew nearer to the Kirtley
                        house, she suffered her horse to move more and more slowly over the rough
                        road. But at last she rode up to the fence of what she was sure must be Gid
                        Kirtley's cabin. Her heart beat violently. There was no stile, and no one to
                        help her dismount. The smoke curled lazily out of the barrel that  formed the top of the stick chimney. The dogs
                        barked in a half-threatening and half-indifferent way, baying awhile and
                        then lying down again, seeming to take turns in making a noise. Roxy looked
                        all around the inhospitable house in vain for some one to assist her. The
                        place had a hostile and sinister appearance. She felt faint and weak, and
                        almost regretful that she had undertaken so difficult a mission. She
                        dismounted at last on a corner of the rickety fence of rails and then jumped
                        down to the ground, and tied her horse herself, the dogs smelling her
                        garments and bristling angrily all the time.
                    From the cabin window Nance had watched her.
                    "There's that blamed Roxy Bonamy," she said to her mother. "What's she come
                        for? No good, I'll bet."
                    "I 'low I'll go and help her off her hoss," said the old woman.
                    "No you wont, nuther. Let her help herself. Them town women thinks everybody
                        orter run after 'em. She's come to sass me, I s'pose. Liker'n not she means
                        to kill me. I'll show her."
                    And the desperate Nancy seized a stout butcher knife and hid it beneath her
                        apron. "Now let her look out," she said. And she seated herself on the
                        corner of the hearth.
                    Roxy, environed by dogs, knocked at the door. The old woman raised the latch
                        and opened it slowly, saying coldly:
                    "Howdy. Walk in."
                    "Is Nancy Kirtley here; I want to see her?" said Roxy.
                    "Thar she is."
                    Nancy sat sullen on the hearth. The old woman gave Roxy a chair. Then she lit
                        her pipe and sat down herself.
                    "You're having a hard time, Nancy," said Roxy.
                    
                    
                    
                    "What's that your business?" said Nancy.
                    "Well, I thought may be I could help you," said Roxy; but all hope seemed to
                        die out of her heart as she spoke.
                    "They can't nobody help me. They wont nobody look at me no
                        more. The gals all larfs at me bekase they're so glad I'm out of their way.
                        And the youn fellers, they wont be seed here no more. Thar's even Jim
                        McGowan wont look at me no more. An' it's all along of you and your man.
                        Ugh! I'll git even yet!" Nancy spoke the last with a sudden burst of angry
                        fire, with her teeth shut and her fist shaken in Roxy's face.
                    "Nancy, I think I can help you out of your troubles. I'm going back to live
                        with my husband and I want to help you, too."
                    "You're goin' back! You're goin' back! An' me, I'm left out here, poor and
                        larfed at, an' then when my baby's born, everybody'll larf at it, too. Blame
                        you all! It's too confounded mean." And Nancy began to cry.
                    "But I think I can fix a plan so that nobody will laugh at you or at your
                        child. You are young yet, and you are so handsome."
                    Roxy said this not with a purpose to flatter the girl, but almost
                        involuntarily, for, despite the trouble Nancy had suffered, and the scowl on
                        her face, there was a beauty about it that Roxy could not but acknowledge.
                        The compliment went far toward softening Nancy. Roxy now drew her chair a
                        little toward Nancy's, but the other drew back, afraid of some
                        treachery.
                    "Nancy," said Roxy, standing up, "I want to talk to you in private. I wont
                        hurt you, poor girl."
                    Nancy in turn was impressed. She felt Roxy's superiority and mastery much as
                        an animal might. As she had drawn her chair, now, close against the jamb,
                        she could not  draw it away from Roxy any
                        farther. Roxy planted he own chair close by Nancy's. She had determined to
                        conquer all shrinking and disgust. She sat down by the girl who now turned
                        her head and looked sullenly into the fire, clutching the knife under her
                        apron, so as to be ready if there should be need of defense.
                    Roxy began to whisper in her car. She told Nancy how much she had hated her
                        when she saw her that day with Mark's watch-seal and Testament, and heard
                        what she had to tell. She told her how she had felt since, how she could not
                        sleep at night. All of this made Nancy uneasy, but it accomplished what Roxy
                        meant it should. It opened the way for an understanding. Then she told about
                        Mark's looking in at the window, and of what she had thought in the night,
                        and how she wanted to help Nancy, and how the people at home didn't want her
                        to.
                    It was hard for Nancy to understand this. She had n herself no alphabet by
                        which she could spell out the exercises of a mind like Roxy's; but she did
                        get from this confession a sense of the superior goodness of the woman, n
                        who talked to her. Her suspicions were gradually lulled, and her resentment
                        toward Roxy became by degrees less keen. In fact, since Mark had rebuffed
                        her, and she had come to understand her situation, she had been more aixious
                        to find means of escape, than even to find opportunity for revenge.
                    "Now," said Roxy, "I want to help you."
                    "You can't do nothin'," said Nancy in dejection. Mark'll give me money, but
                        money wont do no good, plague on it! I might 'a' married Jim McGowan, a
                        good-hearted feller, and that fond o' me. But here I am, n' who'll look at
                        me now? W'y, the ugliest gal on Roccy Fork's got a better show'n I
                        have."
                    
                    Roxy leaned over and whispered again. Nancy listened intently. Then she
                        started a little.
                    "You wouldn't do that! You dursent do it! You dursent take it yourself!"
                    Again Roxy whispered to her.
                    "You don't mean it!" broke out Nancy. "You're a-foolin' weth me! I wont be
                        fooled weth any more!"
                    But Roxy, intent now on her purpose, laid her right hand on Nancy's left,
                        gently elasped it, and whispered again in her ear.
                    "Will you kiss the book on that air?" asked the suspcious Nancy, looking Roxy
                        full in the face.
                    "Yes, to be sure I will. I'll do what I say."
                    "I'll git the book. You've got to sw'ar to it."
                    Nancy rose from her seat eagerly, and the knife fell from under her apron
                        upon the hearth. The clatter attracted Roxy's attention, and Nancy turned
                        red.
                    "I hadn't orter'a' done it," she said, "but I 'lowed may be you was agoin' to
                        do me some harm."
                    But Roxy could hardly make out that Nancy had concealed the knife as a
                        weapon.
                    Nancy brought out Mark's Testament. Seeing Roxy shudder, she apologized.
                    "We haint got no other Bible, an' as this 'ere is his'n, it's jest as good. I
                        don't know jest how to do," she said, puzzled, "but I reckon this'll do. You
                        sw'ar on this book that you'll do what you promised."
                    "I swear on this book that I'll do what I've promised. So help me God!"
                        Roxy's voice trembled. Nancy held up the Testament, and Roxy kissed it.
                    After a while, the old woman had her early dinner of pork and cabbage on the
                        table, and pressed Roxy to eat. She could not eat, but she drank a little of
                        Mrs. Kirtley's  sassafras tea, for the sake of
                        peace. The old man had been duly called, by the blowing of a tin horn, and
                        he wondered not a little at the amity between his daughter and Mrs. Bonamy.
                        Nancy was more and more fascinated by Roxy's friendliness. She was hungry
                        now for just such human recognition. Not very capable of moral distinction,
                        she was yet very full of feeling and there was growing up in her mind a
                        great sense of gratitude to Roxy as her deliverer,ï¿½that gratitude which
                        strongly affects even dumb brutes sometimes. Nancy sat by Roxy at the table,
                        urged her with the rude hospitality of the country to eat, and wondered more
                        and more at a magnanimity that was beyond her comprehension. After dinner,
                        though Roxy was in haste to be away, Nancy detained her while she herself
                        put some corn in a pail and fed the clay-bank colt.
                    At last Roxy told the old woman good-bye, and then held out her hand to
                        Nancy. Nancy took itï¿½held it a moment, while her face twitched and her
                        whole frai- trembled. She felt her own humiliation
                        deeply, in her growing worship of Roxy, and she had an almost animal desire
                        to be petted and caresssed, greatly intensified since she had felt herself
                        outcast.
                    "Would you mindï¿½" here she looked down and stammeredï¿½" would you
                        mindï¿½kissin' a poor thing like me, jist once, you know?"
                    In that moment Roxy remembered the words that Whittaker had spoken that
                        morningï¿½"There is no law against your trying to be as forgiving and as
                        good as God;" -at for an instant her woman's heart held
                        her back from he guilty girl. A sense of the wrong she herself had
                            endu- ed rose up in her. But she repeated to herself
                        the word; "To be as forgiving as God," and then folded her aims about.
                        Nancy, who wept upon her shoulderï¿½a poor d-b
                         thing, beaten upon, of tempestuous
                        passions, -- ceptible at last to good influence that came
                        to her thr- her sensibilitiesï¿½through shame and defeat
                        and forgiveness and deliverance.
                    The old man Kirtley had perceived dimly that for some reason Roxy Bonamy was
                        to be treated as a friend. So he held the bridle of her horse while she
                        mounted from the fence corner. Then when she was about to ride off Nancy
                        came close to the horse and said:
                    "I'm a-goin' to send the ole man over to tell Jim McGowan. He's awful mad and
                        I've been expectin' that any day he'd shoot somebody."
                    "I wish you would," said Roxy.
                    "You and me 'll always be frien's," said Nance.
                    "Yes, indeed we will, Nancy." And Roxy, worn with fatigue and excitement,
                        rode away now to the other part of her task. Sometimes during her long ride
                        her heart rebelled when she thought that she had embraced Nancy. But she
                        repeated to herself, "Inasmuch as ye did it unto o-e of
                        these ye did it unto me." She had often in revival meetings entreated people
                        to "embrace Christ." But even now in her mental and physical depression it
                        dawned upon her that she herself had never before in so full a sense
                        embraced the Christ as when she had taken Nancy into her bosom.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LIII.
                    ROXY'S RETURN.
                    AFTER Whittaker's night visit to Mark the latter had been
                        busily engaged in adjusting his affairs that he mig-t
                        leave the country. On that very Thursday morning his brother-in-law Barlow
                        had called, partly to see Mar--, chiefly in hope of
                        buying the Bonamy poplars at ha- price. And all day
                        Friday and Saturday Mark had ke- himself busy. It was at
                        night when business cares -- laxed that a returning sense
                        of wretchedness came up - him. When Sunday came and his
                        solitude pressed mo- heavily he sank into extreme
                        dejection. A young and a-- bitious man lives in his
                        future, a self-indulgent man -- his present. Mark's
                        future had been suddenly annihilat-- and his imagination
                        was not yet able to discern a ne-- one; his present was
                        too uncomfortable to be dwelt upo-- It was in this mood
                        of restless dejection that he start -- out after
                        night-fall on Sunday to walk through by-wa-- and back
                        streets. The more he walked the more he fe-- himself a
                        wanderer shut out from the world about hi-- Of course, he
                        might have known that in time the villa-- would cease to
                        concern itself about him, even if he conti--ued to live
                        in the town. But the wretchedness of his pr--ent
                        conspicuousness and exclusion bore too heavily -- or him
                        to forecast possibilities of human forgetfulness. P--ple
                        were gathering in the churches, but he could not ent--er
                        one of them without being stared at as the Esau who h--ad
                        sold his birthright. It was with such melancholy
                            refl--c-ions
                         as these that he came in sight of Adams's
                        old-fashioned hewed log house, standing in the midst of its garden-plot in a
                        lonesome part of the village. A sudden desire to see Roxy seized him. A
                        sudden and sharp remembrance of the welcome she used to give him overcame
                        all his caution, and he resolved to see her once again. The honeysuckles
                        were growing over the window as they had grown three years ago. Some
                        fascination of memory made him choose that front window. He looked eagerly
                            -- at the windowï¿½she was before him, listless and
                            heart--roken. And though remorse smote him sore he
                        could -ot withdraw his eyes, but pressed his face closer
                        and -loser to the window that he might get a clearer view
                        of -er,ï¿½it was to be the last. He longed inexpressibly
                        and -lindly for some recognition or forgiveness. At last
                        she -urned full toward him and gave a shriek of fright
                        and -urprise, and fell fainting to the floor. Aroused
                        now, Mark had bounded over the fence and hurried homeward like a fugitive.
                        He was smitten with the idea that Roxy had an utter horror of him. All his
                        old remorse revived -nd again suicide looked tempting to
                        him. Sometimes -ue suicidal mania moved him toward a life
                        of reckless -ntemperance and moral self-destruction. When
                        morning -ame he had little heart for business
                        arrangements. He -ould not get rid of Roxy's terrified
                        look and her cry when she saw him the night before. As the day wore on
                            -e wavered between suicide, intemperance, and a
                        sudden --bsconding from Luzerne and all the associations
                        it held --ith his old life. In this conflict of impulses
                        he resolved --t any rate to go away from the house never
                        to come back. --e put on his hat and went out toward the
                        gate, not turn--ng to get a last glimpse of the old home
                        now grown so -- hateful to him.
                    
                    Bob, when he had given Roxy the horse that morning had been in some doubt
                        whether it were better to tell Mr Bonamy or not. White folkses quar'ls waz
                        more'n he could git de hang of, 'peared like. And of course he could not
                        know whether or not Mark Bonamy would censure him for letting Roxy have the
                        clay-bank colt. Bu Bob had noticed with apprehension Bonamy's uneasines
                        during the night, and had kept a watch on him the nex-
                        day. His great dread was that Mark should go away an so fail to see Roxy
                        when she should bring Dick home i- the evening. He set
                        great store by this visit. Somethin- in Mark's manner
                        aroused his suspicions, and when abo-- mid-day he saw him
                        going out of the gate in haste Bob ra-- after him calling
                        out:
                    "I say, sah, Mass' Mauk, I wants to say sumpin to ye
                    Mark stopped impatiently. What did he care about gi--ing
                        Bob directions in regard to planting?
                    "I see Miss Roxy dis mo'nin', sah."
                    "Oh, you did!" Mark was attentive now.
                    "Yes, sah, and she borryed Dick from me. I couldn' say she shouldn't have de
                        clay-bank colt, ye know."
                    "She took Dick, did she?" asked Mark, with eagernes
                    "Yes, sah, but she said she'd fotch him he'se'f 'lon 'bout dis evenin' some
                        time. I didn't know whedder ye want to be heah or not when she comes."
                    "Of course I want to be here," and Mark went bac again into the house.
                    For hours he walked up and down the front porch, tr-ing to
                        guess what use Roxy could make of the horse where she could have gone, why
                        she was coming to s- him, and what it all meant. From
                        time to time he call-- Bob and questioned him about the
                        whole transactio But it was still a mystery to him.
                    
                    At last about four o'clock he saw across the tops of the vines of the
                        vineyard, a woman riding toward the front gate. When he was sure that it was
                        Roxy, he trembled from head to foot, and retreated inside of the house,
                        sending Bob to open the gate.
                    When Roxy rode up to the horse-block he went out himself, silently holding
                        the horse while she as silently dismounted. Then giving the reins to Bob he
                        stretched a trembling hand to Roxy standing there on the block and said,
                        with eyes downcast:
                    "May I help you down?"
                    Roxy gave him her hand and he assisted her to the ground and walked a little
                        way behind her to the porch. He did not invite her in but left her free to
                        go where she -ould in her own house, if she chose to make
                        it hers. Roxy went into the sitting-room and sat down in the rocking chair
                        that Mark set for her, while Mark took a chair on the other side of the
                        room.
                    "I have come back, Mark," she said, with effort.
                    Mark sat stock-still. He was shaken by contrary emotions. He put his head
                        down between his hands and sat thus in grief and shame.
                    "Have you come back to your house to stay?"
                    "No. I've not come back to my house. I've come back to my husband. I'm going
                        to stay if you will let me."
                    "O God!" said Mark. But he said no more.
                    Roxy could see the shaking of his whole frame. After a while she spoke
                        again.
                    "You haven't told me whether I am to stay or to go."
                    "I'm not fit to have you stay. You know that, Roxy. I ought to have killed
                        myself long ago. If you will only stay here I will go. I'm not fit to stay
                        with you."
                    "What should I stay for, if you go. I've not come back  to the house, I tell you. I've come back to you. If you go I
                        will go, if you stay I will stayï¿½unless you tell me you don't want
                        me."
                    "You know, Roxy, that I'm likely to be prosecuted by the Kirtleys." Mark said
                        this after a long time. "How can I involve you in any way with myself while
                        such a prosecution is pending?"
                    "But I've been to see Nancy Kirtley to-day and I've had a long talk with her
                        and I've arranged the whole matter with her. She is satisfied and glad to
                        have thing as I've fixed them, and there'll be no prosecution."
                    "You've been to Kirtley's!" Mark raised himself up and looked full in her
                        face. "You went to see that creat ure that plotted in cold blood to bring
                        this harm on you And all for my sake!"
                    "No, not all for your sake. Partly for your sake, partly
                        for Nancy's sake, partly for my own sake; for this is an affair that can't
                        be settled by halves. I had to settle it on all sides, you know. Besides,"
                        Roxy spoke rapidly, "I am to blame, too, you must remember. And now I've se
                        myself to see what good can come out of this evil for al of us."
                    "What a woman you are! There's no man in the world fit to be your husband. Of
                        all men I'm not." And he leaned his head upon a table and was silent.
                    Then, after awhile, he said: "What kind of a settlement did you make with
                        Nancy?"
                    "It's not best to discuss that now, Mark. Can't you leave that to me?"
                    "I will leave everything to you."
                    "Now, Mark, the whole matter is arranged, if you ca- be
                        forgiving."
                    "I forgive?"
                    
                    "Yes ou must forgive me for being so severe with you as help the temptation
                        rather than to help you."
                    "Do-- say that again. If you talk about my forgiving you,
                            y-'ll drive me mad."
                    "Ya must forgive Nancy, then."
                    "--an forgive her all I have suffered easily enough, for
                            --s about even, I'm afraid. But it's awful hard to
                            -- of her plotting against you, of all women in the
                            -orld. But then, what's the use of my talking that
                        way? I'm not the one who has a right to hold any grudge against any sinner
                        in God's world. I could forgive the Devil for being the Devil after what
                        I've been through."
                    "But you must forgive yourself. You and I can't build up our life together
                        again if you keep in this mood. You must hope for the best, or it will be
                        only a wretched kind of living we shall have. I've thought it all over
                        to-day. I want you to try to forgive yourself for my sake."
                    Mark made no reply.
                    "Here, I've been sitting a good while, my husband, with my bonnet on, and you
                        haven't given me a kiss or any other welcome home again. Don't you love me,
                        Mark?"
                    After a pause Mark answered slowly:
                    "No, Roxy, I'm not fit to say I love you, but God knows I worship you. I
                        could get down on my knees to you. I would like to be your slave."
                    "But I don't want that," said Roxy, almost impatiently.
                    "Unless you can forgive yourself enough to be something more than that, I'd
                        just as well not have come." Roxy -ose up, and came and
                        stood on the side of the table opposite to Mark. With his head still bowed
                        upon the table, -e reached out his hand and took hold of
                        the tips of her fingers, and, drawing them to him, kissed them over and over
                        again.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LIV.
                    THE CLOUDS RETURN AFTER THE RAIN.
                    JUST at this moment Bob, who was eager to do all in power
                        to facilitate a reconciliation, came and stood in th-
                        door.
                    "I 'spects likely you haint had no dinnah to-day, Miss Roxy. 'Pears like 's
                        if you'd had a mighty pow'ful long ride. I's jist got some suppah on de
                        table, ma'am, e you'll come and git some."
                    Mark started up at these words of Bob and said:
                    "Come, Roxy, you are faint. How pale you are!" a the same time leading her,
                        as he held yet the tips of he fingers, toward the supper-table which sat
                        invitingly o- the back porch. But his thoughtfulness and
                        Bob's ministration had come late. The fatigue of the day, added
                            t- Roxy's exhaustion from the days and nights of
                        trouble that had preceded, were too much for her strength. Now that her hard
                        ride was over and her last terrible task o reconciliation accomplished, the
                        stimulus that upheld he was removed; her head swam, she grew faint and Marl
                        caught her insensible in his arms. For one minute h--
                        stood stunned with grief and surprise, a statue of
                            despai-- holding what seemed to him the lifeless form
                        of the wif-- he had slain.
                    "On de bed, Mass' Mark,ï¿½on de bed, sah. She on' fainted, sah."
                    Recovering himself a little, Bonamy laid her upon th--
                         bed and set to work desperately to restore
                        her. As soon as Roxy returned to consciousness she showed signs of fever and
                        delirium. Mark sent the negro for the doctor, while he stood watching alone
                        with his wife.
                    The doctor came and, soon after, Twonnet and Jemima. But Bonamy would allow
                        none of them to minister to Roxy. During the week that followed, he stood
                        over and about her bed, filled with a remorse that nothing he could do
                        served to ameliorate. He gave Roxy with his own hands her food and medicine;
                        no other was allowed to hand her so much as a spoonful of water. He rejected
                        offers of relief with so much fierceness that after a while all thought of
                        any one taking his place was given up. Twonnet and Jemima and Rachel Adams
                        and Amanda Barlow would sometimes stand in a row, helpless spectators, at
                        the foot of the bed, with the glowering Adams in the background, while Mark
                        alone administered to Roxy's wants. Even when the hands of two were
                        necessary he accepted help with reluctance.
                    As for sleep, he scarcely had any in seven days and nights. Yielding to
                        entreaties, he threw himself two or three times on the hard seat of a settee
                        in the room and slumbered, awaking, however, at the slightest sound that
                        Roxy made. He scarcely ate at all. He was a strange sight, standing there
                        with wan visage, sunken eyes and -nkempt hair, turning
                        fiercely upon every one who proposed that he should rest, utterly unwearying
                        in his care -f Roxy. No mother could have been more
                        tender, no levotee more worshipful than he was in his treatment of he
                        sufferer. The physical penance of his awful days and
                            -ights of watching relieved the torture of his mind
                        and was the only thing that could have kept him alive and aneï¿½if indeed he
                        were sane! Twonnet watched him  sometimes in
                        his wild devotion and wondered whether he were quite himself or not. He had
                        neither eyes nor ears for anybody else than Roxy. All the force of his
                        intense and impulsive nature drove him madly to his pathetic task.
                    Worst of all, Roxy talked a great deal in her delirium. She went over and
                        over every stage of the great trouble. Now she was defiantly angry at Nancy
                        Kirtley, now she was refusing to wear this or that article of apparel.
                    "I will not wear anything that was bought with his money,"
                        she would cry, and then Mark, standing in a state of fascination like a man
                        listening to his own doom, would shake and shudder in a kind of horror.
                    "Yes, I will kiss you, poor girl," Roxy would say.
                    "You tried to kill me. You stabbed me in my heart. But there's Jesus Christ
                        standing there by you. Poor wicked Nancy! Come, I'll forgive you. I'll kiss
                        you. I must. Butï¿½ohï¿½what aï¿½a sinner you are! It's hard, so hard."
                    Then she would slumber awhile and break out with:
                    "Oh, that's Mark! He's looking in the window. Great black lines under his
                        eyes! Oh, what a face! Go 'way, I can't stand it! Poor fellow! Poor fellow!
                        I'm so sorry for him! Get out of my way! Let go of me! I'm going back to
                        Mark! I'm going to Mark! Here I am, I've come back, Mark! Here I am! Here I
                        am! I'm going to stayï¿½to stayï¿½to stay till I die! Why don't you kiss me,
                        Mark, and say you're glad? Oh, dear, I fee. so tired."
                    When Roxy talked in this way, Mark would get down on his knees and bury his
                        face in the bedclothes. But while all the rest wept he did not shed a
                        tear.
                    From two people he would take a little secondary help  sometimes. Bobo stood by him a great deal of the time. To make
                        Bobo his companion seemed in some way a sort of propitiation. He had always
                        felt a dislike to the lad, and now Bobo should help him. It would please
                        Roxy. Bobo would bring him the water or the medicine. And when his sister
                        Janet, hearing of Roxy's sickness, came back he permitted her to assist him
                        a little.
                    If anybody hinted a fatal result of the sickness Mark turned on them with the
                        glare of a savage. Even from the doctor he would not hear any unfavorable
                        prognosis. He was resolved that she should get well. He was resolved that
                        the symptoms were ever those of improvement. And all that looked on agreed
                        that if Roxy died Mark might die also.
                    At last the fever burnt itself out. The eyes, so full of an unwholesome
                        brightness, lost their luster and were dull. The end seemed not far off. The
                        doctor said that the strength of the patient was too far gone for her to
                        recover. It fell to Whittaker to tell her that she had not long to live.
                    "Mark," she said, in a voice so faint that it was hardly audible.
                    Mark heard her where he knelt by the bed-foot, and came round by her, wan,
                        wild, and desperate.
                    "Good-bye!" and Roxy smiled faintly. "Good-bye! poor Mark,ï¿½good-bye!"
                    But Mark said nothing. He stood transfixed in a speechless and tearless
                        despair.
                    Roxy essayed to say good-bye again, and sank into a swoon. Mark saw it and
                        groaned.
                    "She has gone!" he cried, and turning round, he went slowly out of the room,
                        to the porch. It was growing dark. He paused awhile, and then rushed from
                        the house toward  the river. He walked rapidly
                        along the pebbly shore. Mile after mile he traveled in a blind desperation,
                        saying to himself, "I ought to die for that! I ought to die for that!" But
                        whenever the suicidal impulse seized him and he felt driven to rush into the
                        water, he was restrained by some thought that Roxy, up there whither she had
                        gone, would perhaps be rendered unhappy by such an act. Then he would say
                        "I'd better serve out my time. I must serve out my time." Some thought that
                        he was doomed to self-punishment had burnt itself into his half-crazed
                        brain.
                    About nine or ten o'clock, he reached Craig's Landing. Here he sat down upon
                        a log under the bank. The packet-boat, called "Lady Pike," was coming down
                        the river. With a dazed sort of feeling, Mark sat there bare-headed, for he
                        had brought no hat, and watched the steamer's approach. She came up to the
                        landing, and the roustabouts, aided by much swearing from the mate, put
                        ashore the little stock of goods purchased in Cincinnati by the
                        "storekeeper" in the back settlement known as Bray-town. When the last
                        article of all, a keg of New Orleans molasses, had been landed, and the
                        roustabouts were running back up the "walk-plank," Mark, obeying a sudden
                        impulse, ran after them, saying to himself, "I'll serve out my time." The
                        second clerk, seeing a bareheaded man coming aboard, demanded whether he had
                        anything to pay his passage with or not. Bonamy took a half dollar from his
                        pocket, and with it paid for a deck passage to Louisville.
                    When the boat was slowly pushing out from the shore, Mark ran forward, and,
                        recognizing by the light of the boat's torch Bill McKay, the stalwart man
                        who lived near the landing, called out, "Bill! when you go to town, tell  my folks I'm coming back as soon as I've
                            -- time." But the light was not on Bonamy's
                            fac-, could only see that it was a bareheaded and
                            crazy---ing man who had called to him.
                    As the boat moved away, Mark went aft, and climbed up on a pile of sacks of
                        shelled corn, and in the midst of the rude and regular clatter of the boat's
                        engines and the hissing of the steam-pipes, he sank exhausted at last into a
                        troubled slumber.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LV.
                    SERVING OMPHALE.
                    SO INTENT were the rest on the condition of the sufferer,
                        that it was not until the night was half gone, and their hope of Roxy's
                        living had slowly revived, that the long-continued absence of Bonamy excited
                        alarm. A search of the farm was instituted, and when morning came, inquiries
                        were made about the village, and plans were even talked of for dragging the
                        river in search of the body, on the supposition that he had drowned himself.
                        But Bill McKay, full of curiosity about the mysterious bareheaded man who
                        had promised in this wild fashion to return "when he had served out his
                        time," resorted early to town, that he might find out about him. Bill's
                        story and Mark's disappearance were soon fitted together, and it was
                        generally agreed that Bonamy had "gone crazy." A man was sent to Louisville
                        to search for him, but he was not tracked farther than his landing from the
                        "Lady Pike" in the morning; for Bonamy's mental aberration had settled down
                        into a mania for self-punishment. He had gone to Louisville, partly because
                        the Louisville boat happened to come along at the moment, and partly because
                        the Indiana state-prison was at Jeffersonville, on the opposite bank of the
                        river from that city. But when his wits were cleared a little by the sleep
                        of the night, he remembered that however guilty he might be, there was no
                        place for an unconvicted criminal in the penitentiary.
                    
                    Already the mania was taking a milder form, and he contented himself, after
                        having bought a rough hat at a Jew's shop in Louisville, with walking along
                        a canal bank through Shippingsport to the wretched village known in that day
                        as Portland, where two or three boats from the lower country were lying. He
                        succeeded in hiring himself out to the mate of the "Sultana" as a deck-hand,
                        a term applied then to the men who are now called roustabouts, or, in strict
                        steamboat-men's parlance, "roosters." He could not have chosen a more severe
                        punishment, outside of the penitentiary, for the roustabout, as the lowest
                        man in the steamboat hierarchy, was subject to the kicks and cuffs of
                        everybody, from the captain down to the third mate. But there was something
                        of dignity in Bonamy's speech and manner that procured him much immunity
                        from the insults heaped upon his fellows, while his rugged frame and great
                        physical strength made him the equal of the rudest of his companions in
                        carrying sacks of corn and coffee, or in rolling off sugar hogsheads.
                        Perhaps, also, his physical strength and the fire in his eye had something
                        to do with she mate's unwonted respect for him. Doubtless the hard work was
                        the best cure for his brain. The weariness of lifting and carrying made him
                        sleep, and the sleep brought a gradual mental recuperation. By the time the
                        "Sultana" had reached Evansville, he began to wonder at his own abruptness
                        in leaving Luzerne, without even waiting till Roxy's funeral was over, and
                        he began to reflect that there would be search made for him. So he posted a
                        note -o his brother-in-law, in which he simply said: "I'm
                            serv-ng out my time. I'll come home when I'm
                        through." This idea of penal servitude for a definite time was fixed
                            -n his mind.
                    The letter did not reach Luzerne until Roxy was far on  her way to recovery and had been informed of all the incidents
                        of her sickness and of Mark's departure. Letters were immediately sent to
                        Evansville, but of course no trace could be found of Bonamy. Advertisements
                        were inserted in Louisville papers but without avail. There were neither
                        telegraphs nor railroads. But Roxy, when she recovered, made use of the best
                        means within her reach. Since the whole trade of the village by flat-boat
                        was with the "lower country," she wrote letters to every flat-boat pilot and
                        flat-boat hand whose address she could get at every point up and down the
                        Mississippi, asking them to keep a lookout for Mark. There were also a
                        certain number of old inhabitants of the village who were doing business in
                        New Orleans, and to these Roxy sent word. That he was serving on flat-boat
                        or raft, or on the deck of a steamboat, came to be the general impression.
                        And when a second letter came from Memphis, saying: "The work is hard, but I
                        can stand it till my time is out," there seemed no doubt that he was on a
                        steamboat; the time from Evansville to Memphis was too quick for any other
                        mode of travel. In her eagerness to find him, Roxy even visited the
                        coal-boats and salt-boats that touched the village landing and had
                        interviews also with the boatmen who came ashore in skiffs for supplies,
                        giving them a careful description of Mark's person.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LVI.
                    THE GABLE WINDOW.
                    WHITTAKER had long ceased to feel the old temptation to
                        think too much about Roxy, not only because he had found it to be improper
                        and unprofitable, but because of changes in his own mode of thinking. Roxy's
                        heroism had made her more an object of admiration to him. But a man does not
                        always love most what he admires. Such a man as Whittakerï¿½serious,
                        earnest, scrupulousï¿½may worship the heroic, but he does not readily love a
                        heroine. As a heroine in esse, Roxy seemed to him too
                        great to be loved. She was not a woman to be petted or cherished, she was a
                        woman born to suffer and to achieve. He could have written a book about her,
                        but he would not have written a love-letter to a woman of such a mold. He no
                        longer regretted that she had not loved him. One who has a spice of the
                        heroic does not mate well with heroism. As Whittaker stood now and then in
                        Roxy's sick-room he felt himself in the shrine of a saint. But he did not
                        want to live always in a temple. And dimly he came to understand that Roxy
                        could not have been for him.
                    He understood this more from his curious liking for Twonnet which grew in
                        spite of him. Not that he had distinctly admitted to himself that he loved
                        the lively Swiss girl. How could he, a scholar, love a girl who couldn't get
                        her grammar lesson and who couldn't understand what in the world a square
                        root might be? How dared be, a minister, love a girl so entirely volatile as
                             Twonnet? And yet this very volatility was
                        a great delight to him. Twonnet's merry laugh was to his prevailing mood
                        like a field of green wheat in the bleak winter, or a burst of sunlight on a
                        somber day.
                    "What a girl she is!" Whittaker would say as he remembered how she had pelted
                        him that day when she leaned out of the garret window, and how she had
                        rebuked him from behind her grandmother's spectacles. But all the time he
                        felt like a truant. Thoughts of Twonnet seemed wrong to him, and her merry
                        face invaded his imagination even in his prayers.
                    Sometimes he resolved that he would not think about Twonnet. It was hardly
                        safe for a man to allow his mind to dwell so much on a person whom he must
                        not love. But a forbidding resolution is worst of all. For by way of
                        strengthening his resolve he would recall reasons for not thinking of
                        Twonnet. He had to think about her to get arguments for not thinking about
                        her. She was too light. There was that day in the garden, for instance, when
                        she stood, playfully, tray in hand, and sang with mock pathos: 
                            
                                "I've come across the sea
                                From Swissland a stranger,
                                For a brother dear to me
                                From Swissland a ranger."
                            
                         But just here his stern logic stopped and he fell into a reverie. The
                        logic had evoked the image of Twonnet, and his heart stood and looked at her
                        there. He saw the dark curls, the clear brown eyes, the ruddy brunette
                        cheeks full of laughter, the red lips singing in such half-pathetic
                        impersonation:
                    
                        "A little toy, a little toy
                        Of poor Rose of Luzerne."
                    
                    
                    Somehow this struggle did not put out the flameï¿½fanning never does put out
                        fire. The more he wouldn't think the more he did.
                    It was while Roxy was at the worst that Mr. Highbury, having noticed the
                        increase of the congregation for two Sundays, and having concluded that
                        Whittaker would not be easily removed, decided to make friends, and at the
                        same time magnify his office of elder. So, taking with him his fellow
                        elder,ï¿½a dapper little man, cipher to Highbury's unit,ï¿½he called on
                        Whittaker, and, after much preliminary parley, advised him to marry. To
                        which view Mr. Wingate, the minor elder, cordially assented. He thought so,
                        too.
                    "But whom shall I marry?" said Whittaker, puzzled.
                    "Well," said Highbury, "you ought to marry a church-member."
                    Mr. Wingate said he thought so by all means.
                    "And a person of seriousness and piety, one who can visit the sick, and get
                        up female prayer-meetings and sewing circles," said Highbury.
                    "To be sure," said Wingate. "That is very importantï¿½the seriousness and
                        piety and the sewing circles especially."
                    "I think," said Highbury, "that a minister's wife should not talk too much.
                        She ought to be quiet and grave."
                    "Grave by all means," coincided the sprightly but deferential Mr.
                        Wingate.
                    "A minister's usefulness, you know, depends so much on his wife. She ought to
                        be a helpmate."
                    "You never said anything truer than that, Mr. Highbury," echoed the earnest
                        Wingate. "A minister's usefulness, you know, is a most useful and important
                        thing, Mr. Whittaker." Mr, Wingate here subsided into placidity,  with a consciousness that he had made one
                        original observation.
                    Mr. Whittaker very readily promised to consider the advice of his elders. And
                        after that he walked up and down the porch, and tried to think. But he could
                        not think of anybody but Twonnet. Her he observed closely, trying to imagine
                        that there was more seriousness about her than he thought. And, indeed, she
                        was serious enough. Here was Roxy's illness to make her solemn. And there
                        came a consciousness that Whittaker was observing her, which produced a
                        constraint and reserve he had never seen in her before. In proportion to his
                        interest in her, she showed a coldness toward him. A certain fear that she
                        had been too free, and a dread of revealing herself produced self-constraint
                        that made her seem other than she was.
                    When Whittaker's school was out, on the Friday afternoon following Mark's
                        departure on Monday evening, he walked home, thinking more intently of
                        Twonnet than ever before. It was now four or five days since the members of
                        his church session had bidden him to marry. But Twonnet certainly was not
                        the kind of person Mr. Highbury had in mind when he described the stock
                        ideal of a parson's wife. Grave in demeanor she was not. Whittaker laughed
                        to think of her presiding over a "female prayer-meeting." She could not
                        always keep a serious face in meeting. He remembered how she had mimicked
                        the elder at the time of his remonstrance about Roxy. Then he said in his
                        thoughts: "I wish she were as solemn as she ought to be to be a minister's
                        wife." But Whittaker would not have loved her half so well, if she had been
                        a minister's wife of the dried sort. It was the very joyousness and
                        child-likeness of her heart that was such a fountain of delight to him.
                    
                    When the minister in this mood reached the gate of the Lefaure yard, he felt
                        like a school-boy deciding on truancy. He'd a mind to try for Twonnet
                        anyhow, and let the consequences come. But though he did not fear the
                        elders, he feared his own conscience, for he remembered, as Wingate
                        expressed it, that "a minister's usefulness was a most useful and important
                        thing." And then, too, he dreaded Twonnet's ridicule. She had made all the
                        young men of her acquaintance afraid of her by her remorseless laughing at
                        their foibles, and Whittaker feared that he would be made a fool of, if he
                        made love to her.
                    He found Twonnet the only occupant of the house beside himself. The children
                        were gathering periwinkle shells on the river shore, Mrs. Lefaure was away,
                        and Twonnet had come home from Roxy's to take charge of the house.
                    Whittaker's first inquiry was about Roxy, and about Roxy Twonnet could talk
                        freely with him, provided he did not look at her scrutinizingly, as had been
                        his habit of late. About Roxy they talked, how rapidly she was convalescing,
                        where Mark had gone, whether he would ever come back, and what effect his
                        leaving would have on Roxy.
                    Twonnet sat in a rocking-chair on the porch, sewing, and Whittaker had seated
                        himself on the edge of the porch. After awhile the conversation lagged,
                        because Whittaker had fallen again to looking closely and searchingly at his
                        companion. She, on her part, had immediately ceased to talk. It made her
                        cheeks warm to be looked at in that fashion. But Whittaker presently broke
                        out in half soliloquy, repeating three lines from Petrarch. His Italian
                        studies had been revived since he was thinking  of Twonnet by a new interest in Petrarch. Now he came out with:
                    
                        "O aspettata in ciel, beata e bella
                        Anima, che di nostra umanitade
                        Vestita vai, non come l'altre carca!"
                    
                    "What does that mean?" asked Twonnet.
                    "Those lines have been in my head for a week," said Whittaker. "I couldn't
                        keep from applying them to Roxy, while she was so sick. 'O looked-for in
                        heaven, thou blessed and beautiful soul, clothed with our humanity, in a way
                        not like the rest of us!' That is not quite it either, but that is what it
                        seemed to me to be when I saw Roxy so sick. She is a most wonderful
                        woman."
                    Why did Twonnet sigh and look vexed? Why did it always make her glad to hear
                        anybody praise Roxy excepting Whittaker? The old jealous feeling arose
                        again, and she said to herself, "He is always praising Roxy. He can't see
                        anybody but Roxy." Finding tears of vexation rising in her eyes, she hastily
                        left the porch.
                    Whittaker sat a long time waiting for her return, with an undefined sense of
                        having somehow offended her, and that kind of wretchedness which a lover
                        always feels at recognizing the fact that a man, even a lover, has but a
                        blundering knowledge of a woman's heart. After awhile, despairing of
                        Twonnet's return, he got up and went to his own room. But he became more and
                        more uneasy. The more he thought that he had wounded her, the more was he
                        intent on apology. Would she never come back to the porch? After awhile, he
                        heard the voices of her mother and the children in the hall, and his
                        opportunity for explanation was gone. He sat down at the window under the
                        gable, and tried to guess why she seemed so offended, but  he succeeded no better than men usually do in
                        such a case. Remembering the time when the girl had pelted him with paper
                        balls, he looked up toward the garret window and saw her fingers clasped
                        around the window-sill. A powerful impulse seized him.
                    "Twonnet!" he cried, with that joy of daring which a cautious man feels when
                        he has thrown the despotic cautiousness to the whales.
                    She answered with a simple "Sir?" that is de rigueur in the
                        politeness of the country, but she did not look out. It was an old boyish
                        trait of Whittaker's when playing a game, to make the most aggressive
                        movements, to carry everything at the last by a daring tour de
                            force, which always surprised those who knew his habitual caution.
                        Now he was piqued by Twonnet's reserve, and he was carried away by the old
                        venturesomeness.
                    "I'm coming up there, Twonnet."
                    He waited a moment. The hand was withdrawn from the sill, but there was no
                        word forbidding him. He went directly to the attic stair, which he had never
                        ascended before. When he got to the top, he found the garret wholly
                        unfurnished, except by a few decrepit chairs and other invalids, put away
                        for storage. But at the end where Twonnet kept her doll, and where she had
                        surreptitiously held on to her childhood long after she was too nearly grown
                        up to confess to childish amusements, there were gathered two cracked
                        chairs, a piece of rag-carpet, a piece of an old looking-glass on a box
                        turned upside down for a bureau, a doll's bed, and other junk and toys. Of
                        late, Twonnet had mostly given up the place to her younger sisters, but she
                        still resorted to this gable window when she was in trouble. Whittaker found
                        her in the midst of this strange ameublement, sitting on
                        the floor against the light, which  just
                        touched with a rim of brightness her brown headï¿½as fine a Rembrandt piece
                        as one would wish to see. She did not say a single word as he approached,
                        stooping under the rafters, but when he came close enough he saw that she
                        had been crying. Behold another great mystery! Why should a woman cry? Glad
                        or sorry, pleased or vexed, loving or hating, why has a woman always to
                        resort to this one escape for all emotion?
                    When Whittaker essayed to sit down on one of the chairs, he saw something of
                        the old familiar twinkle in her eyes, and when the hypocritical chair gave
                        way and precipitated him to the floor, he understood the meaning of her
                        smile.
                    "It's too bad, Mr. Whittaker," she said, in the midst of her laughter. "I
                        ought to have told you, but it's so funny to see you fall over."
                    A little disconcerted, Whittaker picked himself up, and then gently pitched
                        the chair into a corner, inwardly saying that she had set it there, or at
                        least left it there, on purpose for him. Then he, too, tried to sit down on
                        the floor, cutting a very awkward figure, as a man not educated to the
                        tailor's trade is sure to do in such an attempt. His final adjustment of
                        himself brought him at last into a half-kneeling attitude, before her. But
                        if his physical position was an awkward one, his mental posture was even
                        more so. He had brought himself face to face with a merry, mischievous girl,
                        who was a shrewd and prudent woman besides, and who had been his confidant
                        in a former love affair three years before. He had, so far as deliberation
                        was concerned, made up his mind to nothing. He only knew that he loved this
                        girl, good as she was mischievous, and that she was making game of him,
                        having completely upset his dignity by a broken-legged chair, left in cold
                             blood as a trap for him. He had nothing
                        to say. But he must say something. Naturally, under the circumstances, he
                        began at the wrong end. After gaining time by trying to talk about the
                        arrangements of her play-house, he said:
                    "Mr. Highbury and Mr. Wingate were here on Monday, to advise me to get
                        married. What do you think of that?"
                    "That would do very well, if Roxy were not married yet," said Twonnet, half
                        poutingly taking the old doll into her lap, and pretending to have great
                        difficulty in adjusting a pin in its clothes. By this means she let her
                        curls fall down around her face, and screened herself a little from
                        Whittaker's too intent gaze.
                    "Roxy!" said Whittaker "I shouldn't marry Roxy if she were Roxy Adams
                        yet."
                    "Why, you said just awhile ago that she was 'looked-for in heaven,' and was a
                        'blessed and beautiful soul.' "
                    "So I did. But a man can't love an angel, however much he may admire her.
                        There is no rest to Roxy's goodness."
                    Twonnet was going to tell him that he was just as good himself, but she
                        didn't. What she did say was that this loll had got its broken nose by
                        falling out of this very window six years ago.
                    "Highbury and Wingate gave me a recipe for the compounding of a parson's
                        wife," he said. "She was to be half angel and half sawdust."
                    Twonnet laughed outright at this, and Whittaker was a
                            -ittle shocked at himself; but he had cut loose from
                        his sual decorum of speech and action; and he enjoyed
                            talk-g in what seemed to him a reckless and abandoned
                            -ay.
                    
                    "For my part, I think you would make the best wife I know," he said,
                        awkwardly.
                    "Yes," said she, looking up. "Think of me leading a prayer-meeting. I'd set a
                        broken-legged chair for old Mother Tartrum, and I'd give Mrs. Highbury a
                        rocking-chair with one rocker off. See how solemn I can be." And Twonnet
                        drew her face into a queer pucker, and said, in a dry, hard voice, "Sing the
                        twenty-first psalm, second part." Whittaker was just about to remonstrate
                        with her for her light treatment of sacred things, when the comical pucker
                        on her face gave way, and she began to cry.
                    He did not know what to say to anybody crying. So he waited until she leaned
                        her head on her hand and grew more quiet. Then he spoke again, this time
                        vehemently.
                    "I don't want a wife for a church. I don't ask you to marry the female
                        prayer-meeting or the sewing circle. I am a man, if I am a minister. I don't
                        love you as a parson. I love you, Antoinette Lefaure, and I want to know if
                        you can love, not a parson, but me, Charles Whittaker?"
                    Twonnet did not speak, or raise her head. After a while, Whittaker timidly
                        took hold of her hand. He could not bear to see her cry, so presently he
                        took her handkerchief from her lap and wiped her eyes. Then she smiled a
                        little.
                    "Is it all right, Twonnet?" he said, trying to look in her eyes, which she
                        turned away.
                    "Mr. Whittaker," she said, with a trembling voice, "my mother's calling me.
                        I'll have to get you to let go of my hand, if you please."
                    Whittaker relaxed his grasp. The mother was stil calling "Antoinette!" but
                        Twonnet did not seem in great hurry to go. Whittaker leaned forward, took he
                             face between his hands, and kissed her on
                        the cheek, as he might have kissed a child. And then Twonnet cried again.
                        And then he had to wipe away the tears, and kiss her again to comfort
                        her.
                    "Qu'avez vouz? What have you been crying about?" asked her mother, when she
                        came down-stairs.
                    "Mr. Whittaker's been talking to me. He's been telling me all about a love
                        affair of his."
                    "What a foolish child you are to cry over Mr. Whittaker's love affairs!"
                    "I couldn't help it," said Twonnet, meekly.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LVII.
                    THE STEAMBOAT EXPLOSION.
                    ROXY, as she rapidly recovered, found herself the
                        principal topic of discussion in the town. It was clearly wrong, in the
                        opinion of some of the strictest people, for her to return to her husband.
                        It was contrary to Scripture, or what is of more consequence than Scripture,
                        to wit, ingenious inferences from Scripture. Logical inferences are like
                        precious stones, valuable in proportion to the distance from which they are
                        fetched and the difficulty one has in getting at them. The great strainers
                        agreed also with the camel-swallowers that it was a violation of law for
                        Roxy to buy off Nancy's prosecution as she must have done. It was
                        compounding a felony and protecting a man that deserved to go to
                        penitentiary.
                    And then there were those of a Rosa Matilda turn of mind who talked loudly
                        about the sacredness of the romantic sentiments that had somehow been
                        outraged in Roxy's forgiveness. And there were a few who approved in a
                        cynical fashion. Roxy was no fool. A whole loaf was better than a half, and
                        when she came to think of it she must have seen that it was better to go
                        back. But the greater number of people have a romantic love for heroism, all
                        the more that they are quite incapable of emulating it. Those who heartily
                        admired her course soon had things all their own way.
                    But one day, as the Fourth of July drew on and the air  was made lively by fire-crackers, the whole town was thrown
                        into consternation and excitement by the intelligence that Roxy had taken a
                        step more startling than her return to her husband. Indeed nothing so awful
                        had ever been heard. Some people thought Roxy's actions a disgrace to the
                        Christian religion, an outrage on civilization, and what was worse, a shock
                        to good society. For people whose minds act but slowly and in grooves, there
                        is small distinction between an action that is "out of the common run" and
                        an act that is essentially immoral. They only knew that Roxy had surprised
                        them, this time beyond endurance.
                    She had gone to Kirtley's cabin and taken Nancy's child.
                    Mrs. Tartrum issued extras on the subject every hour giving all the details
                        down to the date of going to press. She even interviewed Roxy. She had
                        actually seen the baby with her own eyes!
                    Among the items in Mrs. Tartrum's budget was the announcement that Mrs.
                        Amanda Barlow was dreadfully afflicted. She was mortified beyond all
                        expression. She had a right to be, poor thing! To have the family disgraced
                        right under her nose and eyes in that way was too much for a Christian woman
                        to stand. And even Janet had left Roxy. She loved Roxy, but a sensitive
                        young girl reared in boarding school,ï¿½could she live in a house with such
                        a child without contamination? True she had read, with the approval of her
                        teacher, "The Vicar of Wakefield," and Walter Scott's novels, and
                        surreptitiously, she had read some older novels than Scott's; but to read of
                        such things in novels is quite another thing to enduring them in one's own
                        family. Even Roxy's new hired girl, not to be behind Janet in delicacy,
                        sought another place; but the loyal Jemima notified Mrs. Rachel that she was
                        going to live  with Roxy. Jemima had an innate
                        spirit of opposition to shams, and this popular spasm of virtue aroused all
                        the rude chivalry of her nature. She 'lowed they was only one rale downright
                        Christian in creation and that was Roxy. Ez fer the Pharisees an' the
                        Phylacterees that didn't like a poor innercent little creetur that hadn't
                        done no harm itself, it was her opinion if the gates of New Jerusalem ever
                        opened fer sich folks the hinges would squeak and screech awfully. Roxy had
                        married fer better an' fer wuss and when wuss come thicker and faster and
                        more of it, she took the wuss and done what she could with it.
                    About this time, however, the town was diverted from its discussion of the
                        merits of Roxy's action and from speculation about the chance of Mark's
                        returning, by the awful intelligence of a steamboat explosion, but a few
                        miles away. The "Red Rock," an opposition packet-boat, trying to keep ahead
                        of the "Lady Pike" of the regular line, had put on a full head of steam and
                        in making a landing on the Kentucky side had been blown in-shore by the
                        wind. The engineer was quite unwilling to allow any of the steam to
                        escape;ï¿½it had been made by a prodigious expenditure of tar and soap-fat
                        and other inflammables thrown into the furnaces. In vain the pilot tried to
                        back out, the wind drove the stern of the boat ashore, in vain he tried to
                        run ahead, the steamer had as yet no steerage way and the bow lay flat
                        against the sandy bottom. At last poles and spars were resorted to, the
                        steam still carefully hoarded. The passengers stood on the guard, a young
                        Baptist minister, who with his bride had just come aboard, stood half-way up
                        the stairs waving his handkerchief to the friends on shore, when in an
                        instant the boat flew into a thousand pieces. People were hurled into the
                        air, dropped into the water, on the bank, 
                        everywhere. They were scalded, drowned, destroyed, torn to atoms. It was
                        told that a piece of the boiler crossed the river, and cut down a black
                        locust-tree, six inches in diameter. The first clerk went into the air, fell
                        feet foremost into deep water, and swam ashore. The bar-keeper alighted on
                        the inverted roof of his bar, away in the stream, and was saved. The young
                        Baptist minister and his wife were never found. A mile away from the place
                        of explosion, in a tree-top, there was found a coat-collar, which his
                        friends thought belonged to him.
                    As all this happened but four miles below the town, Luzerne was thrown into a
                        state of agitation such as only a village can know. Many in the village had
                        friends and acquaintances on the boat. The passengers least hurt were
                        brought to Luzerne to be cared for. The firemen, standing near the boilers,
                        were all killed, and but one of the roustabouts was saved. This roustabout,
                        Bob Olcott, was laid, bruised and maimed, in the village hotel. In a few
                        days he was able to sit in the bar-room and regale the stock company of
                        loafers with a full account of what he saw, and heard, and felt of the
                        explosion, though in fact he knew nothing about it until he found himself
                        lying, bruised and stunned, in the sand of the shore, some minutes after the
                        boilers had burst. But as the story grew in wonderfulness, many resorted to
                        the bar-room to talk with "the feller that had been blowed up." And as
                        nearly every stranger who came felt bound to "stand treat" after the story
                        was ended, the roustabout did not take especial pains to keep it strictly
                        limited to actual observations of his own. In truth, Bob Olcott embroidered
                        the account of the explosion of the "Red Rock" off Craig's Bar with various
                        incidents, real and imaginary, taken from other explosions in the great
                        river system of the West,  which traditional
                        stories he had picked up from his fellow-roustabouts when they lay resting
                        on coils of rope, and piles of barrels, and sacks of coffee, whiling away
                        the time between landings and wood-yards with pleasant accounts of disasters
                        and assassinations.
                    Bob did not lie from any purpose; it was no more than an act of
                        good-fellowship and kindness for him to satisfy the craving of his audience.
                        They would have gone away disappointed if Olcott had told them that when the
                        explosion took place, he was sitting with his feet dangling over the guard,
                        just in front of the cook-house, and that he did not know anything more
                        until he came to himself in the sand-pile, full of aches and bruises. No
                        good-hearted fellow could stick to the barren truth under such
                        circumstances. The temptation appealed to Bob's better nature and he kept on
                        remembering things. Far be it from me to reprehend so generous a trait! Bob
                        Olcott belonged to my own profession. He was a novelist, in his way, and his
                        tales had a great run. Mother Tartrum interviewed him every day,ï¿½she was
                        the News Company,ï¿½and she handed over his stories in job lots to the small
                        dealers, who retailed them on every street corner and over all partition
                        fences. There were skeptics who sat on salt-barrels and store-boxes in the
                        shade of brick walls, and shook their heads over these stories. They knew
                        better; the thing didn't hang together. But I shall not take their side of
                        the question. These are the critics. They were to Bob Olcott what the young
                        fellows who write book notices are to the rest of us. Down with the people
                        who pick a story to pieces as a botanist does a lily! Long live those
                        sympathetic readers who enjoy a tale in simplicity. Did not Washington
                        Irving declare that he never doubted anything that he found pleasant to
                        believe?
                    
                    One day Olcott, whose story increased in length, and breadth, and thickness,
                        as he regained his physical strength, noticed that, as the steamboat
                        explosion acquired staleness by the lapse of a week of time and by incessant
                        repetition and discussion, there was an older topic that came back to the
                        surface of bar-room and street corner talk. Mixed with exciting discussions
                        of the relative merits of Henry Clay and James K. Polk, he heard mention of
                        Mark Bonamy's affair, and of the curious action of his wife in forgiving her
                        husband and adopting his child. He heard with curiosity, but with something
                        of the jealousy a novelist is supposed to feel when his rival's book is in
                        everybody's hand, the conjectures about Bonamy's return, the story of his
                        flight, the guess that he was at work on the deck of a steamboat.
                    "What kind of a 'pearin' feller was this yer Bonnermy?" he asked, one
                        day.
                    Mark was described.
                    "He wont never come back," said Bob, with a melancholy air and an oracular
                        mysteriousness.
                    "Why?"
                    "He was on the 'Red Rock' when she busted,ï¿½that very feller. Told me all
                        about things that very day. Comin' home to look about, he said. Tuck deck
                        passage to keep from bein' seed by old friends."
                    This story, told over and over and commented on by different hearers, became
                        more and more particular and circumstantial. The description of Mark grew
                        more explicit and unmistakable.
                    The story came to Lathers's ears, and, with his innate love of mischief, he
                        went to Barlow. There was property at stake, and Barlow was not insensible
                        to property. Mark had no will, and neither Roxy nor her adopted  child could inherit of the estate, beyond
                        what was Roxy's "dower right." The matter was quite worth looking into.
                    Roxy, on her part, was alarmed by the story as she heard it. She went to see
                        Bob, and the poor fellow, who was a kind-hearted liar, admitted to her
                        various doubts that he had, as to whether the man "moughtn't be somebody
                        else." Whittaker went to see the man, and cross-questioned him until the
                        imaginative fellow was somewhat disconcerted "in what he called his mind,"
                        and made several amendments and adjustments in his story. But,
                        notwithstanding Whittaker's unbelief and Roxy's own skepticism, she was in
                        greater and greater uneasiness about Mark, as the time went on and she had
                        no further intelligence.
                    Lathers had many private talks with Olcott, and under the sheriff's
                        instruction he became more guarded, and his story became perceptibly less
                        inconsistent with itself. Lathers paid his board for a week in order to
                        retain him in the village, and Olcott thought it about the easiest run he
                        had ever had in his life.
                    One evening Major Lathers had a long interview with the roustabout. Then, as
                        he drank with Olcott at the bar, he said to the landlord: "Barlow'll apply
                        fer letters of administration on that, and the jedge'll grant 'em, too."
                    "I don't hardly think so," said Peter Raymond, who had just come in. Raymond
                        was an eccentric fellow, French by his father's side and Kentuckian on his
                        mother's. He was thought to be a simpleton by strangers, but those who knew
                        him better considered him more of a wit.
                    "Why wont he?" responded Lathers, with a knowing twinkle in his eyes.
                    "Well, your evidence is mighty slim, it 'pears like, and then Mrs. Bonamy's
                        got the best lawyer in the country on her side," answered Pete.
                    
                    "We know what the evidence is better'n you do, and ez fer lawyer, I'd like to
                        see you muster a better than Barlow."
                    "Well, she's done it. He come up on the mail-boat jest this minute, and has
                        gone straight to her house."
                    "Joe Marshall of Madison, I suppose," said Lathers, with a look of
                        despondency. "He's an all-fired speaker, but he's lazy, and he wont work up
                        the case like Barlow."
                    " 'Taint Joe Marshall, neither," said Pete. "It's a long sight better man
                        than him."
                    "Who in thunder is it?"
                    "Oh, it's Mark Bonamy himself! He was dressed rough, like a deck-hand, and in
                        the dusk didn't nobody on the w'arf-boat see him. He jest jumped off away
                        aft, and crossed the lower end of the w'arf. I happened to meet him as he
                        was goin' up the bank, and I says: 'Go to thunder, Mark Bonamy!' says I.
                        'I'm that glad to see you!' An' he says, 'Hello, Pete! Is that you? How's my
                        wife?' An' I says, 'All well, last I heerd,' says I. An' he never hardly
                        stopped, but went catacornered acrost Slabtown, steerin' straight fer home,
                        and walkin' a blue streak, like. Now I don't know what you think Major, but,
                        in a case like this 'ere, in which he takes a interest, I'll put Bonamy
                        ag'in all the Barlows you can git. Mrs. Bonamy'sï¿½"
                    "Got high and low, Jack and the game," said the Major, striding out of the
                        door into the fresh air, and saying, "Well! that beats me."
                    Bob Olcott's easy run came to a sudden termination at the end of the week. No
                        longer able to live as a novelist, he had to carry coffee-sacks and roll
                        whisky-barrels once more. He is not the only man in the profession who has
                        failed from overdoing things.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LVIII.
                    JIM AND NANCY.
                    O the evening preceding this conversation in the barroom, and
                        the report of the return of Mark, Roxy had had a visitor. She had agreed to
                        give Nancy Kirtley enough money to carry her to some distant country, and to
                        "set her up" when she got there. For Nancy was resolved to have nothing more
                        to do with Rocky Fork. She had come by appointment now to conclude the
                        matter with Roxy. She had a dim, half-human sense of the immense goodness of
                        Roxyï¿½such a sense as prompts a dog to caress the bountiful hand of his
                        master.
                    "Jim and me was married to-day," said Nancy, with a little exultation. "Jim's
                        a good feller to come back to me after all, now, haint he?"
                    "Yes, he is. You must be good to Jim."
                    "Lawzy! It haint in me. I can't help bein' a leetle bad, ye know."
                    Roxy settled her account with Nancy, giving her what was a large amount of
                        money for that time.
                    "It'll buy Jim a farm, out in Missouri, and a hoss, and two cows, and may be
                        more," said Nance, as she prepared to go.
                    On the steps she stopped, looked down, and hesitated a minute.
                    "They's one thing more," she said.
                    "What's that?"
                    
                    "The leetle feller. If you'd jest as lieve, I'd kinder like to take one last
                        look at him afore I go. He's yourn now, but somehow I'm his own nat'ral
                        mother. Ef you'd jest as lieve."
                    "Yes," said Roxy, reluctantly, and with a feeling of jealousy.
                    When Nancy saw the child, she said:
                    "Well, now! you have fixed him up, haint you! An' he's so purty. But then
                        he'll never know nothin' about his own flesh and blood mother. I sha'n't
                        trouble him. It's better he's yourn. But,"ï¿½here she wiped her eyes,ï¿½"but
                        when he gits to be a gentleman and all, he'll never know 'at he's got
                        another mother." She stooped and kissed the baby. Then she went out to the
                        door, and when she parted with Roxy, she seized her hand saying: "You're
                        awful good. You're awful good. I 'low they haint no more sich as you."
                    That night, she and Jim McGowan took boat for the Missouri River. They were
                        absorbed into the community of Pikes, and Rocky Fork knew them no more.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LIX.
                    THE PRODIGAL.
                    ONE can never have done admiring the beauties of a late
                        afternoon on the Ohio. In a village like Luzerne, where every house was
                        bowered in apple-trees, and rosebushes, and grape-vines, and honeysuckles,
                        it was always a delight. That is a lazy climate, and a town like Luzerne is
                        a place, in which half the people seem, to a stranger, to have nothing much
                        to do. At some seasons of the year, when onion buying and hay shipping were
                        active, the town had some appearance of life; but it was never so peaceful
                        and sleepy-looking as about the first of August. In mid-afternoon, the
                        clerks in the stores sprinkled the floors to keep them cool, and then sat
                        themselves down on shoe-boxes or counters to loaf away the hot and idle
                        time, rising with reluctance to sell a half pound of eightpenny nails to
                        some unlucky villager, into whose garden an industrious hog had forced his
                        way, and who was obliged to exert himself enough to nail on a few palings.
                        The roses have long since ceased blooming. The red seed-vessels look bright
                        among the green leaves of the rose-trees. One can hear everywhere, on such a
                        day, the voices of the red-bird and the twittering of the martins and the
                        chatter of chimney-swifts. The grapes are hardly reddening yet, but you can
                        hear at this season the thud of the ripe summer apples, as they fall from
                        time to time upon the ground. Nobody does anything. The boys find it too
                        warm to play. They  are up in the apple-trees,
                        filling their hats and shirt-bosoms with the too abundant fruit, or they are
                        prowling about some garden-patch, waiting their opportunity to "hook" a
                        great ripe water-melon. They know a good place in some retired orchard, or
                        under a drift-pile of the river-side, where they can carry their booty, and
                        find out how sweet are stolen melons. A little later, when the rays of the
                        sun are less fiery, the whole village full of boys will be swimming in the
                        tepid river, shouting, diving, splashing one another, for hours at a
                        stretch.
                    It is a beautiful climate on this beautiful river, where the winters are
                        never stern, and where, in the hot summer, one is absolved from
                        responsibility and care. Nowhere is the "sweet doing nothing" sweeter than
                        here. Lie down under a cherry-tree and sleep, stretch yourself near an open
                        door-way and read, with the sound of cow-bells, and the far away cawing of
                        crows, and the cackling of hens, and the scarcely heard and lazy hammering
                        of the village smith floating to you out of an air full of stillness and
                        peace. Put away your book at last. The world is too comfortable for
                        exertion. The repose in the sky and in the faint breeze is too exquisite. It
                        is happiness enough to be.
                    It does not matter that you come of an energetic race cradled in the rocky
                        hill-sides of New England. This air is too much for you. Why be ambitious?
                        The poorest man is rich enough here. Sit down, sad soul, or lie down and
                        slumber.
                    Even a conscientious, energetic, studious Yale man such as Whittaker, cannot
                        quite resist this enervating air of Southern Indiana. The river is so
                        beautiful, reflecting the blue sky and the banks of white clouds, and the
                        air is so refreshing that Whittaker does not study much. His  dictionaries are all unopened. He needs rest,
                        he says, and he rests. All the hot afternoon he sits on the upper back porch
                        and talks with Twonnet. There is something so stimulant in her droll
                        speeches, that he has forgotten to study. He is trying to prepare her to be
                        a minister's wife. Sometimes a suspicion crosses his mind that after all she
                        has more tact and practical wisdom than he has. But for the most part he
                        flatters himself that he is teaching her and she amuses herself as she
                        always has done by making sport of her teacher.
                    "I think it would be a good plan for us to correct each other's speech, my
                        dear, don't you?" he said to Twonnet one afternoon.
                    "I think it would be right good to be corrected by you," answered
                        Twonnet.
                    "You oughtn't to use the word right instead of very or quite," Whittaker began. "All Western
                            *
                        people do. They say, 'It's a right cold day,' 'He's a right good man.' This
                        is improper."
                            * This is not
                            true of the northern belt of the West, in which New England usage
                            predominates.
                    
                    "It's in the Bible," answered Twonnet, roguishly. "I think I remember the
                        expression, 'and that right early.' "
                    It had never occurred to Whittaker that these provincialisms were archaic
                        formsï¿½no one had given attention to the fact then. But Twonnet's reply
                        confused him. He assured her, however, that it was hardly proper English
                        nowadays, if it was in the Bible.
                    "It's right strange it should be thereï¿½I mean it's mighty strange it should
                        be there," she said.
                    "Yes, it is. Another thing that is bad in Western speech is that you will say
                            mighty for very. 'It's mighty good,' and 'I'm mighty cold' sound very
                        rough."
                    
                    "I suppose they wouldn't be rough if you were used to them," rejoined
                        Twonnet, with mischief in her eyes. "I'm mighty sure they
                        wouldn't."
                    "Why, yes, they are rough in themselves."
                    "Yes, but you don't think the same expression rough in French. We often say
                            fort for very in French."
                    "That is so," said Whittaker, thrown into confusion by this analogy. He had
                        to fall back on good usage in the English language as the only authority.
                        Then he begged Twonnet to point out any mistakes of his own.
                    "W'y," said she, "all of you people from the East will pronounce 'wholly' as
                        though it were not sounded just like 'holy.' "
                    Whittaker could not admit that the two words were the same. All the Yale
                        professors softened the "o" in wholly. It was only when he conquered his
                        indolence enough to get the dictionary and when the dictionary had shown him
                        that this "o" was not the French "cough sound," that he began to suspect
                        that he himself had a local dialect. For no man measures his own distance
                        from the standard. But he did not care to what result these debates came.
                        They made talk between him and Twonnet. And if she could not learn much from
                        books the paradoxical young woman was a very keen observer of life.
                    When at last supper is over, Whittaker remembers how much Roxy is in trouble,
                        and as it is a call that is better made in company he gets Twonnet's
                        sun-bonnet and puts it on her head, as they walk together along the river
                        bank. Whittaker is like a man in a trance. Life has become genial and joyous
                        to him.
                    The slender Bobo, who lives with Roxy all the time, now, is at the gate, and
                        he is always glad to see them. He goes down to the gate every evening. For
                        Roxy has taught  him to say in his prayers
                        every night and morning: "O God, send Mark home to Roxy again." She believes
                        superstitiously that the prayers of children and innocents have a peculiar
                        efficacy. And Bobo, in his unquestioning faith, is quite disappointed when
                        evening after evening he waits at the gate and finds no answer to his
                        request.
                    Just now he skips along in front of Whittaker and Twonnet, for he knows that
                        their coming will bring some cheer to the anxious face of his madonna.
                    And, indeed, the assurance with which Whittaker spoke of Mark's return did
                        cheer Roxy a little that evening. The air was too balmy for anybody to
                        believe in catastrophe. The happiness of Whittaker and Twonnet, too, was
                        somehow infectious.
                    When the darkness deepened, and the mail-boat, with its two tall chimneys
                        flying banners of fiery sparks, came in sight, Roxy got up and strained her
                        eyes at the boat as it passed. The whizzing plash of its paddlewheels in the
                        water, and the glare of its furnace fires on the smooth river, set her heart
                        beating wildly. Not a boat had passed in a month that she had not gazed at
                        it, in this eager fashion. For, though doing was easy to her, waiting was
                        hard. The boat rounded to the wharf, and she sat down again, hoping against
                        hope that this would be the night on which Mark should come back.
                    And indeed Mark Bonamy was standing just forward of the wheel-house on the
                        lower deck of the boat, straining his eyes at the brick house, and wondering
                        and wondering. Some weeks before, in New Orleans, as he was helping to carry
                        a grindstone aboard on a hand-barrow, he was thinking of home and debating
                        whether he should not return. His severe physical fatigue had brought health
                        to his brain,  and the old lingering
                        impression that he was to serve out a given time, had grown faint.
                    "Ees it you, Mr. Bonamy?" spoke up Chauvier, a French merchant, who had
                        passed one or two summers in Luzerne. "Ze lettares I haf had from Madame
                        Bonamy about you!"
                    "Fro what?"
                    "From Madame, your wife."
                    "My wife is dead."
                    "I do not like to tell you dat you do not speak de trute, but pardi, Madame
                        has recovered herself, and she wants very much to zee you."
                    "Get to work, there! None of your foolin'!" called out the mate to Mark.
                    "I guess I wont work any more," said Mark, putting down his end of the
                        barrow.
                    "You wont, eh?" And the mate bristled up to him. The only means of discipline
                        among the deck crew of that day, was the brutal blow with the mate's fist
                        armed with metal knuckles. But when Mark, irritated by all he had borne, and
                        all the oppressions he had seen put on weaker men, squared himself off, the
                        mate, noting his size, and remembering that he might get in the first blow,
                        contented himself with saying:
                    "You wont get any pay for the time you've worked over your month."
                    To this Bonamy made no reply, but pursued his wondering inquiries. Guided by
                        Chauvier's information, he found Luzerne people about the levee, who
                        confirmed the Frenchman's intelligence.
                    That night he started home, taking deck passage to avoid observation. With
                        every mile that the slow-paced boat traveled, he became more and more
                        impatient. At Louisville  he changed to the
                        mail-boat. Hardly had the "Ben Franklin No. 2" touched the wharf, when he
                        leaped upon the lower end of the wharf-boat, where there were no people, and
                        ran across, jumping ashore. He met Pete Raymond on the bank, and then took
                        the near and lonesome cut across the grassy common of the lower terrace.
                    When he arrived at his own gate, in his tatterdemalion costume of deck-hand,
                        he was kept back by hearing voices on the porch. He could not go in while
                        strangers were there.
                    So it happened that, when time enough had elapsed for Mark to have reached
                        home and he came not, Roxy gave up, saying:
                    "Well, Bobo, Mark didn't come this time, did he?"
                    And it seemed to her that he would never come.
                    When Whittaker and Twonnet passed out of the gate, Mark recognized them, but
                        he concealed himself until they had gone. Then he approached the gate where
                        Bobo had stopped when he had accompanied Whittaker and Twonnet thus far. The
                        lad was gazing through the palings and wondering why God did not tell Mark
                        to come home.
                    "Is that you, Bobo?" said Mark, gently.
                    Recognizing the voice, Bobo gave a great cry of delight and ran wildly into
                        the house.
                    "Mark's come back to Roxy!" he cried.
                    Mark had walked up under the old poplars, trembling with he knew not what
                        emotion, until he was half-way to the house, when he saw Roxy coming toward
                        him.
                    He stopped there, ashamed, for the first time, of his appearance, and in some
                        strange trepidation about the reception he would have.
                    Roxy could not recognize him in the darkness. She paused, and then said,
                        interrogatively:
                    
                    
                        
                            THE NEXT SUNDAY, SHE TOOK HER OLD PLACE IN THE METHODIST
                                MEETING HOUSE.
                        
                    
                    
                    "Mark?"
                    "Yes, Roxy."
                    Mark had not long to doubt of his welcome then. What were soiled and ragged
                        clothes or bitter and guilty memories? he was at home, forgiven, kissed,
                        embraced, wept over, loved as of old. When Roxy had embraced him over and
                        over, and wept upon his neck, she led him into the house in triumph. She had
                        conquered at last.
                    The next Sunday, she took her old place in the Methodist meeting-house. Mark
                        stayed at home, because Roxy did not like to have him subjected to any
                        humiliation from the looks or words of those about him. But she sat again in
                        the amen corner, among the sisters who were active in the church. There was
                        the old look of gladness in her face. There was more than the old gladness,
                        now, in her heartï¿½there was blessedness. It was the quarterly meeting, and
                        when the venerable elder read with emotion, "Blessed are they which do
                        hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled," tears of
                        joy were in her eyes and a fullness as of God, in her heart. And when he
                        read, "Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy," many in the
                        congregation turned their eyes toward her. But when the white-haired old man
                        read, "Blessed are the peacemakers," his voice quivered, and he
                        involuntarily looked at Roxy; then he slowly finished: "for they shall be
                        called the children of God." Every word dropped like a benediction into her
                        heart. She bowed her head upon the back of the seat in front of her and
                        wept, while sighs and sobs were heard from the demonstrative people all over
                        the house. And of all who knelt by the rude benches in that old church that
                        day to eat and drink the blessed bread and wine, there were none who took
                        the secret sacrament as did the woman who had dared to give  her heart to suffer for others, after the
                        pattern of the Master of self-sacrifice.
                    The people said that Roxy was her old self again. But she was not. A great
                        experience transforms. We must ever be more or less than our old selves.
                        Roxy was not now the zealous and restless young woman seeking a mission, and
                        longing for hard tasks. Her work was in her hands, and she was easily master
                        of it. The victory of paradise was already in her heart, for she had
                        overcome the world's tribulation.
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
