
     ----CITATION---- 
        Eggleston, George Cary, 1839-1911. The Master of Warlock: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2339
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                THE MASTER OF WARLOCK
                
            
            
            
                
                    "In the firelight"
                    
                        See page 271
                    
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE MASTER OF WARLOCK
                    A VIRGINIA WAR STORY
                
                BY
                    
                    GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON AUTHOR OF "DOROTHY
                    SOUTH," "A CAROLINA CAVALIER," ETC.
                ILLUSTRATED BY
                     C. D. WILLIAMS
                
                    LOTHROP PULISHING COMPANY
                    BOSTON
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1903, BY
                     LOTHROP PUBLISHING COMPANY.
                ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
                ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL
                Published, January, 1903
            
            
            
                TO "DOROTHY SOUTH," THE DEAR LITTLE WOMAN WHO HAS BEEN WIFE TO ME FOR THIRTY-FOUR
                    YEARS, WHO HAS UNCONSCIOUSLY INSPIRED ALL MY WORK, AND WHOSE PERSONALITY, IN ITS SEVERAL PHASES, IT
                    HAS BEEN MY LOVING ENDEAVOUR TO PORTRAY IN ALL THE STORIES I HAVE WRITTEN, I DEDICATE THIS BOOK WITH
                    REVERENCE AND SOUL-FELT THANKS.
                GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON.
                
                    Culross, October 18, 1902.
                
            
            
            
                Table of Contents
                
                    I. A BREAK IN THE BRIDGE
                        11
                        
                    II. THE BRINGING UP OF AGATHA
                        32>
                        
                    III. JESSAMINE AND HONEYSUCKLE
                        47
                        
                    IV. IN REVOLT
                        71
                        
                    V. AT THE OAKS
                        78
                        
                    VI. NEXT MORNING
                        94
                        
                    VII. A FAREWELL AT THE GATE
                        111
                        
                    VIII. A RED FEATHER
                        118
                        
                    IX. THE BIRTH OF WOMANHOOD
                        135
                        
                    X. IN ACTION
                        144
                        
                    XI. AT WARLOCK
                        163
                        
                    XII. UNDER ESCORT
                        172
                        
                    XIII. A SOUVENIR SERVICE
                        187
                        
                    XIV. QUICK WORK
                        199
                        
                    XV. AGATHA'S VENTURE
                        214
                        
                    XVI. CANISTER
                        223
                        
                    XVII. AT HEADQUARTERS
                        238
                        
                    XVIII. A BRUSH AT THE FRONT
                        248
                        
                    XIX. AGATHA'S RESOLUTION
                        256
                        
                    XX. TWO HOME-COMINGS
                        265
                        
                    XXI. AT PARTING
                        279
                        
                    XXII. SAM AS A STRATEGIST
                        290
                        
                    XXIII. A NEGOTIATION
                        301
                        
                    XXIV. FLIGHT
                        317
                        
                    
                    XXV. A NARROW ESCAPE
                        327
                        
                    XXVI. MADEMOISELLE ROLAND
                        336
                        
                    XXVII. AGATHA'S WONDER-STORY
                        345
                        
                    XXVIII. WHEN A MAN TALKS TOO MUCH
                        364
                        
                    XXIX. A STRUGGLE OF GIANTS
                        374
                        
                    XXX. THE LAST STRAW
                        380
                        
                    XXXI. AT WARLOCK AND AT THE OAKS
                        396
                        
                    XXXII. IN RIGHTEOUS WRATH
                        407
                        
                    XXXIII. UNDER RED LEAVES
                        416
                        
                    XXXIV. THE END AND AFTER
                        425
                        
                
            
            
            
                List of Illustrations
                
                    
                        "In the firelight"
                        Frontispiece
                        
                    
                    
                        Agatha Ronald
                        44
                    
                    
                        "'If any man flunksI'll brain him'"
                        126
                        
                    
                    
                        "'Riding under gallant escort'"
                        186
                        
                    
                    
                        "'I love you, Agatha Ronald'"
                        235
                        
                    
                    
                        "'At Christ-church-in-the-woods'"
                        423
                        
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
                The Master of Warlock
                
                    I
                    A BREAK IN THE BRIDGE
                    
                    THE road was a winding, twisting track as it threaded its way through a stretch of old field
                        pines. The land was nearly level at that point, and quite unobstructed, so that there was not
                        the slightest reason that ordinary intelligence could discover for the roadway's
                        devious wanderings. It might just as well have run straight through the pine lands.
                    But in Virginia people were never in a hurry. They had all of leisure that well-settled and
                        perfectly self-satisfied ways of life could bring to a people whose chief concern it was to live
                        uprightly and happily in that state of existence into which it had pleased God to call them.
                        What difference could it make to a people so minded, whether the 
                        journey to the Court-housethe centre and seat of county activities of all kindswere a mile or
                        two longer or shorter by reason of meaningless curves in the road, or by reason of a lack of
                        them? Why should they bother to straighten out road windings that had the authority of long use
                        for their being? And why should the well-fed negro drivers of family carriages shake themselves
                        out of their customary and comfortable naps in order to drive more directly across the pine
                        land, when the horses, if left to themselves, would placidly follow the traditional track?
                    The crookedness of the road was a fact, and Virginians of that time always accepted and respected
                        facts to which they had been long accustomed. For that sufficient reason Baillie Pegram, the
                        young master of Warlock, was not thinking of the road at all, but accepting it as he did the
                        greenery of the trees and the bursting of the buds, as he jogged along at a dog-trot on that
                        fine April morning in the year of our Lord 1861.
                    He was well mounted upon a mettlesome sorrel mare,a mare with pronounced ideas of her own. The
                        young man had taught her to bend these somewhat to his will, but her individuality  was not yet so far subdued or suppressed as to lose itself in that
                        of her master. So she suddenly halted and vigorously snorted as she came within sight of the
                        little bridge over Dogwood Branch, where a horse and a young gentlewoman were obviously in
                        trouble.
                    I name the horse and the girl in that ungallant reverse order, because that was the order in
                        which they revealed themselves to the mare and her master. For the girl was on the farther side
                        of the horse, and stooping, so that she could not be seen at a first glance. As she heard
                        approaching hoof-beats she straightened herself into that dignity of demeanour which every young
                        Virginia gentlewoman felt it to be her supreme duty in life to maintain under any and all
                        circumstances.
                    She was gowned in the riding-habit of that time, with glove-fitting body and a skirt so long
                        that, even when its wearer sat upon a high horse, it extended to within eighteen inches of the
                        ground. When Baillie Pegram reached the little bridge and hastily dismounted, she was standing
                        as erect as a young hickory-tree, making the most of her five feet four of height, and holding
                        the  skirt up sufficiently to free her feet. She wore a look half
                        of welcome, half of defiance on her face. The defiance was prompted by a high-bred maidenly
                        sense of propriety and by something else. The welcome was due to an instinctive rejoicing in the
                        coming of masculine help. For the girl was indeed in sore need of assistance. Her horse had
                        slipped his foot through a break in the bridge flooring, and after a painful struggle, had given
                        up the attempt to extricate it. He was panting with pain, and his young mistress was
                        sympathetically sharing every pain that he suffered.
                    Baillie Pegram gave the girl a rather formal greeting as he dismounted. Stooping he examined the
                        imprisoned leg of the animal. Then seizing a stone from the margin of the stream, he quickly
                        beat the planking loose from its fastenings, releasing the poor brute from its pillory. But the
                        freed foot did not plant itself upon the ground again. The horse held it up, limp and dangling.
                        Seeing what had happened, the young man promptly ungirthed the saddles, and transferred that of
                        the young woman to the back of his own animal.
                    "You must take my mare, Miss Ronald," he  said.
                        "Your horse is in no condition to carry you, and, poor fellow, he never will be
                        again."
                    "Just what has happened, Mr. Pegram?" the girl asked, with a good deal of
                        hauteur in her tone.
                    "Your horse's leg is broken beyond all possibility of repair," he
                        answered. "I will take care of him for you, and you must ride my mare. She is a trifle
                        unruly at times, and not very bridle-wise, so that she is scarcely fit for a lady's
                        use. But I take it you know how to ride."
                    The girl did not answer at once. After a space she said:
                    "You forget that I am Agatha Ronald."
                    "No, I do not forget," he answered. "I remember that fact with regret
                        whenever I think of you. However, under the circumstances, you must so far overcome your
                        prejudice as to accept the use of my mare."
                    There was a mingling of hauteur and amusement in the girl's voice and countenance as she
                        answered:
                    "Permit me, Mr. Pegram, to thank you for your courteous proffer of help, and to decline it."
                    "I need no thanks," he said, "for a trifling  The utterance was an affront, and Baillie Pegram saw clearly that it was intended
                        to be such. He bit his lip, but controlled himself.
                    "I will not think," he answered, "that you quite meant to say that.
                        You are too just to do even me a wrong, and surely I have not deserved such an affront at your
                        hands. Nor can the circumstances that prompt you to decline any unnecessary courtesy at my hands
                        justify you inwell, in saying what you have just said. I have not sought to force attentions
                        upon you, and you know it. I have only asked you to let me behave like a gentleman under
                        circumstances which are not of my making or my seeking. Your horse is hopelessly lamedso
                        hopelessly that as soon as you are gone, I am going to kill him by the roadside as an act of
                        ordinary humanity. You are fully five miles from The Oaks, where you  are staying with your aunts. Except in this bit of pine barren, the roads are exceedingly
                        muddy. You are habited for riding, and you could not walk far in that costume, even upon the
                        best of roads. You simply must make use of my mare. I cannot permit you to refuse. If I did so,
                        I should incur the lasting and just disapproval of your aunts, The Oaks ladies. You certainly do
                        not wish me to do that. I have placed your saddle upon my mare, and I am waiting to help you
                        mount."
                    The girl hesitated, bewildered, unwilling, and distinctly in that feminine state of mind which
                        women call "vexed." At last she asked:
                    "What will you do if I refuse?"
                    "O, in that case I shall turn the mare loose, and walk at a respectful distance behind
                        you as you trudge over the miry road, until you become hopelessly involved in the red clay at
                        Vinegar Post. Then I shall rush to your rescue like a gallant knight, and carry you pick-a-back
                        all the way to The Oaks. It will be a singularly undignified approach to a mansion in which the
                        proprieties of life are sternly insisted upon. Don't  you
                        think you'd better take the mare, Miss Ronald?"
                    The girl stood silent for nearly a minute in a half-angry mood of resistance, which was in battle
                        with the laughing demon that just now possessed her. She did not want to laugh. She was
                        determined not to laugh. Therefore she laughed uncontrollably, as one is apt to do when
                        something ludicrous occurs at a funeral. Presently she said:
                    "I wonder what it was all about anyhowthe quarrel, I mean, between your grandfather and
                        my poor father?"
                    There was a touch of melancholy in her tone as she spoke of her "poor
                        father"for that phrase, in Virginian usage, always meant that the dear one mentioned
                        was dead. "I wonder what it was that makes it so imperative for me to be formally
                        courteous beyond the common to you, and at the same time highly improper for me to accept such
                        ordinary courtesies at your hands as I freely accept from others, thinking nothing about the
                        matter."
                    "Would you really like to know?" the young man asked.
                    
                    "Yesno. I'm not quite certain. Sometimes I want to knowjust now, for exampleso
                        that I may know just what my duty is. But at other times I think it should be enough for me, as
                        a well-ordered young person, to know that I must be loyal to my poor father's memory,
                        and never forgive a Pegram while I live. My good aunts have taught me that much, but they have
                        never told me anything about the origin of the feud. All I know is that, in order to be true to
                        the memory of my poor father, who died before I was born, I must always remember that the
                        Ronalds and the Pegrams are hereditary enemies. That is why I refuse to use the mare which you
                        have so courteously offered me, Mr. Pegram."
                    "Still," answered the young man, as if arguing the matter out with himself,
                        "it might not compromise your dignity so much to ride a mare that belongs to me, as to
                        let me 'tote' you homefor that is precisely what I must do if you persist in
                        your refusal."
                    The girl again laughed, merrily this time, but still she hesitated:
                    "Listen!" said Baillie; "that's my boy Sam  coming. It would be unseemly for us to continue our quarrel in the
                        presence of a servant."
                    As he spoke the voice of Sam rose from beyond the pines, in a ditty which he was singing with all
                        the power of a robust set of vocal organs:
                    
                        "My own Eliza galshe's de colour ob de night,
                        When de moon it doesn't shine a little bit;
                        But her teeth shows white in de shaddah ob de night,
                        And her eyes is like a lantern when it's lit.
                    
                    
                        "Oh, Eliza!
                        How I prize yeh!
                        You'se de nicest gal dere is;
                        It's fer you dat I'se a-pinin',
                        For you're like a star dat's shinin'
                        When de moon it's done forgitten how to riz."
                    
                    With that Sam came beaming upon the scene. His round, black, shining visage, and eyes that
                        glittered with a humour which might have won an anchorite to merriment, resembled nothing so
                        much as the sun at its rising, if one may think of the sun as black and glistening from a
                        diligent rubbing with a bacon rind, which was Sam's favourite cosmetic, as it is of all
                        the very black negroes.
                    Sam was sitting sidewise upon a saddleless mule, but when he saw the situation he quickly  slipped to the ground, pulled his woolly forelock in lieu of
                        doffing the hat which he had not, and asked:
                    "What's de mattah, Mas' Baillie?"
                    The girl saw the impropriety of continuing the discussionit had ceased to be a quarrel nowin
                        Sam's presence. So she held out her hand, and said:
                    "Thank you very much, Mr. Pegram. I will ride your beautiful mare, and to-morrow, if you
                        are so minded, you may call at The Oaks to inquire how the animal has behaved toward me. Good
                        morning, sir!"
                    She sprang into the saddle without waiting for young Pegram to assist her, for she was even yet
                        determined to accept no more of attention at his hands than she must. He, in his turn, was too
                        greatly relieved by this ending of the embarrassing scene to care for the implied snub to his
                        gallantry. As soon as the girl rode away, which she did without pausing for a moment, Baillie
                        Pegram turned to Sam, and without inquiring upon what errand that worthy had been going, gave
                        the order:
                    "Mount your mule and ride at a respectful  distance behind
                        Miss Agatha Ronald. She may have trouble with that half-broken mare of mine. And mind you, boy,
                        don't entertain the young lady with any of your songs as you go. When you get back to
                        Warlock, bring me a horse to the Court-house, do you hear?"
                    Then leading the wounded animal upon three legs into the woods near by, Pegram fired a charge of
                        shot from the fowling-piece which he carried, into its brain, killing the poor beast instantly
                        and painlessly.
                    Having discharged this duty of mercy, the young man, with high boots drawn over his
                        trousers' legs, set out with a brisk stride for the county-seat village, known only as
                        "the Courthouse." Entering the clerk's office, he said to the county
                        clerk:
                    "As a magistrate of this county I direct you to enter a fine of five dollars against
                        Baillie Pegram, Esq., supervisor of the Vinegar Post road, for his neglect to keep the bridge
                        over Dogwood Branch in repair. Here's the money. Give me a receipt, please, and make
                        the proper entries upon the court records."
                    "Pardon me, Mr. Pegram," answered the  clerk,
                        "but you remember that at the last term of the county court, with a full bench of
                        magistrates sitting, it was decided to adjourn the court indefinitely in view of the disturbed
                        condition of the time?"
                    "I remember that," answered the young man, "but that action was taken
                        only upon the ground that under present circumstances it would work hardship to many for the
                        courts to meet for the enforcement of debts. This is a very different case. As road supervisor I
                        am charged with a public duty which I have neglected. As a magistrate it is my duty to fine
                        every road supervisor who is derelict. No session of the court is necessary for that. I shall
                        certainly not tolerate such neglect of duty on the part of any county officer, particularly when
                        I happen to be myself the derelict official. So enter the fine and give me a receipt for the
                        money."
                    Does all this impress the reader as quixotic? Was it a foolish sentimentalism that prompted these
                        men to serve their neighbours and the public without pay, and, upon occasion, to hold themselves
                        rigidly responsible to a high standard of duty? Was it quixotism which prompted  George Washington to serve his country without one dollar of pay,
                        through seven years of war, as the general of its armies, and through nearly twice that time as
                        President, first of the Constitutional Convention, and afterwards, for eight years, as President
                        of the nation? Was it an absurd sentimentalism that prompted him, after he had declined pay, to
                        decline also the gifts voluntarily and urgently pressed upon him by his own and other States,
                        and by the nation? The humourists ridicule all such sentiment. But the humourists are not a
                        court of final appeal. At any rate, this sentimentality had its good side.
                    But at this time of extreme excitement, there were, no doubt, ludicrous exaggerations of
                        sentiment and conduct now and then, and on this sixteenth day of April, 1861, the master of
                        Warlock encountered some things that greatly amused him. Having finished his business in the
                        clerk's office, he found himself in the midst of excited throngs. Startling news had
                        come from Richmond that morning. In view of the bombardment of Fort Sumter, President Lincoln
                        had called for seventy-five thousand men as an army with which to reduce the seceding States to
                        subjection.
                    
                    Virginia was not one of the seceding States. Up to that time, she had utterly repudiated the
                        thought that secession was justified by Mr. Lincoln's election, or by any threat to the
                        South which his accession to office implied.
                    The statesmen of Virginia had busied themselves for months with efforts to find a way out of the
                        difficulties that beset the country. They were intent upon saving that Union which had been born
                        of Virginia's suggestion, if such saving could be accomplished by any means that did
                        not involve dishonour. The people of Virginia, when called upon to decide the question of their
                        own course in such a crisis by the election of a constitutional convention, had overwhelmingly
                        decided it against secession, and in favour of adherence to the Union. Under Virginia's
                        influence, Maryland, North Carolina, Tennessee, Kentucky, Arkansas, and Missouri had refused to
                        secede.
                    But while the Virginians were thus opposed to secession, and while they were fully convinced that
                        secession was neither necessary nor advisable under the circumstances then existing, they were
                        of one mind in believing that the constitutional right  of any
                        State to withdraw from the Union at will was absolute and indefeasible. So when Mr. Lincoln
                        called upon Virginia for her quota of troops with which to coerce back into the Union those
                        States which had exercised what the Virginians held to be their rightful privilege of
                        withdrawal, it seemed to the Virginians that there was forced upon them a choice between
                        secession and unspeakable dishonour. They wanted to remain in the Union, of which their State
                        had been from the beginning so influential a part. They were intensely loyal to the history and
                        traditions of that Union over which their Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, and Tyler had
                        presided, and at the head of whose supreme court their John Marshall had so wisely interpreted
                        the constitution. But when Mr. Lincoln notified them that they must furnish their quota of
                        troops with which to make war upon sister States for exercising a right which the Virginians
                        deemed unquestionable, they felt that they had no choice but to join the seceding States and
                        take the consequences.
                    What a pity it seems, as we look back upon that crisis of forty odd years ago, that Mr. Lincoln
                        could not have found some other way out  of his difficulties! What
                        a pity that he could not have seen his way clear to omit Virginia and the other border States
                        from his call for troops, with which to make war upon secession! Doubtless it was impracticable
                        for him to make such a distinction. But the pity of it is none the less on that account. For if
                        this might have been done, there would have been no civil war worthy the attention of the
                        historian or the novelist. In that case the battles of Bull Run, the Seven Days, Fredericksburg,
                        Antietam, Chancellorsville, Gettysburg, the Wilderness, Spottsylvania, Cold Harbour, and the
                        rest of the bloody encounters would never have been fought. In that case the country would not
                        have exhausted itself with four years of strenuous war, enlisting 2,700,000 men on one side, and
                        600,000 on the other. In that case many thousands of brave young lives would have been spared,
                        and the desolation of homes by tens of thousands would not have come upon the land.
                    It is idle, however, to speculate in "if's," even when their
                        significance is so sadly obvious as it is in this case. Facts are facts, and the all-dominating
                        fact on that 16th of April, 1861, was that President Lincoln had called upon Virginia  for her quota of troops with which to make war upon the seceding
                        States, and that Virginia had no mind to respond to the call.
                    It was certain now, that Virginiahowever reluctantly and however firmly convinced she might be
                        that secession was uncalled for on the part of the Southern States, would adopt an ordinance of
                        secession, and thus make inevitable the coming of the greatest war in all history, where
                        otherwise no war at all, or at most an insignificant one, would have occurred.
                    There was no question in the minds of any body at the Court-house on this sixteenth day of April,
                        1861, that Virginia would secede as soon as a vote could be taken in the convention.
                    The county was a small one, insignificant in the number of its white inhabitants,there being six
                        negroes to one white in its population,but it was firmly convinced that upon its attitude
                        depended the fate of Virginia, and perhaps of the nation. This conviction was strong, at any
                        rate, in the minds of the three local orators who had ordered a muster for this day in order
                        that they might have an audience to harangue. These were Colonel Gregor, of the militia and the
                        bar,  Lieutenant-Colonel Simpson, also of the bar, and the militia,
                        and Captain Sam Guthrie, who commanded a troop of uniformed horsemen, long ago organised for
                        purposes of periodical picnicking. This troop afterward rendered conspicuously good service in
                        Stuart's First Regiment of Virginia cavalry, but not under Captain Guthrie's
                        command. That officer, early in the campaign, developed a severe case of nervous prostration,
                        and retired. The militiamen also volunteered, and rendered their full four years of service. But
                        Lieutenant-Colonel Simpson retired during his first and only skirmish, while Colonel Gregor
                        discovered in himself a divine call to the ministry of the gospel, and stayed at home to answer
                        it. But all this came later. In April, 1861, these three were the eager advocates of war,
                        instant and terrible. Under inspiration of the news from Richmond, they spouted like geysers
                        throughout that day. They could not have been more impassioned in their pleas if theirs had been
                        a reluctant community, in danger of disgracing itself by refusing to furnish its fair share of
                        volunteers for Virginia's defence, though in fact every able-bodied  man in the county had already signified his intention of
                        volunteering at the first opportunity.
                    But the orators were not minded to miss so good an opportunity to display their eloquence, and
                        impress themselves upon the community. Colonel Gregor, in a fine burst of eloquence, warned his
                        fellow citizens, whom he always addressed as "me countrymen," to examine
                        themselves carefully touching their personal courage, "for," he thundered,
                        "where Gregor leads, brave men must follow."
                    Later in the day, Lieutenant-Colonel Simpson hit upon the happy idea, which his superior officer
                        at once adopted, of ordering the entire militia of the county into camp at the Court-house,
                        where the three men eloquent might harangue them at will between drills. The two field-officers
                        told the men that they must now regard themselves as minute men, and hold themselves in
                        readiness to respond at a moment's notice to the country's call, for the
                        repelling of invasion, whensoever it might come.
                    All this impressed Baillie Pegram as ridiculous. That young gentleman had a saving sense of
                        humour, but he was content to smile at a foolishness  in which he
                        had no mind to join. The young men of the county responded enthusiastically to the encampment
                        call. It meant for them some days of delightful picnicking, with dancing in the evening.
                    Baillie Pegram, having business to transact in Richmond, absented himself from a frolic not to
                        his taste, and took the noonday train for the State capital.
                
                
                
                    II
                    THE BRINGING UP OF AGATHA
                    
                    AGATHA ROLAND was a particularly well ordered young gentlewoman, at least during her long,
                        half-yearly visits to her aunts at The Oaks. At home with her maternal grandfather, Colonel
                        Archer, she was neither well nor ill orderedshe was not ordered at all. She gave orders instead,
                        in a gentle way; and her word was law, by virtue of her grandfather's insistence that
                        it should be so regarded, and still more by reason of something in herself that gently gave
                        authority to her will.
                    Agatha had been born at The Oaks, and that plantation was to be her property at the death of her
                        two elderly maiden aunts, her dead father's sisters. But she had been taken as a little
                        child to the distant home of her grandfather, Colonel Archer, and after her mother's
                        death she had  lived there alone with that sturdy old Virginia
                        gentleman.
                    She was less than seven years old when he installed her behind the tea-tray in her dead
                        mother's stead, and made her absolute mistress of the mansion, issuing the order that
                        "whatever Miss Agatha wants done must be done, or I will find out why." Her
                        good aunts sought to interfere at first, but they soon learned better. They wanted the girl to
                        come to them at The Oaks "for her bringing up," they said. Upon that plan
                        Colonel Archer instantly put a veto that was not the less peremptory for the reason that he
                        could not "put his foot down" just then, because of an attack of the gout.
                        Then the good ladies urged him to take "some gentlewoman of mature years and high
                        character" into his house, "to look after the child's bringing up, so
                        that her manners may be such as befit a person of her lineage."
                    To this appeal the old gentleman replied:
                    "I'll look after all that myself. I don't want the child taught a lot
                        of nonsense, and I won't have her placed under anybody's authority. She
                        doesn't need control, any more than the birds do;  she
                        shall grow up here at Willoughby in perfect freedom and naturalness. I'll be
                        responsible for the result. She shall wear bonnets whenever she wants to, and go without them
                        whenever that pleases her best; when she wants to go barefoot and wade in the branches, as all
                        healthy children like to do, she shall not be told that her conduct is 'highly
                        improper,' and all that nonsense. O, I know," he said, in anticipation of a
                        protest that he saw coming, "I know she'll get 'dreadfully
                        tanned,' and become a tomboyand all the rest of it. But I'll answer for it
                        that when she grows up her perfectly healthy skin will bear comparison with the complexion of
                        the worst house-burnt young woman in all the land, and as for her figure, nature will take care
                        of that under the life of liberty that she's going to live, in the air and
                        sunshine."
                    "But you'll surely send her to school?"
                    "Not if I retain my senses. I remember my humanities well enough to teach her all the
                        Latin, Greek, and mathematics she needs. We'll read history and literature together,
                        and as for French, I speak that language a good deal better than most of the dapper little
                        dancing-masters  do who keep 'young ladies'
                        seminaries.' We'll ride horseback together every day, and I'll teach
                        her French while I'm teaching her how to take an eight-rail fence at a
                        gallop."
                    The remonstrances were continued for a time, until one day the old gentleman made an end of them
                        by saying:
                    "I have heard all I want to hear on that subject. It is not to be mentioned to me
                        again."
                    Everybody who knew Colonel Archer knew that when he spoke in that tone of mingled determination
                        and self-restraint, it was a dictate of prudence to respect his wish. So after that Agatha and
                        he lived alone at Willoughby, a plantation in Northern Virginia three or four days distant by
                        carriage from The Oaks.
                    Morning, noon, and night, these two were inseparable companions. "Chummie" was
                        the pet name she gave him in her childish days, and he would never permit her to address him by
                        any other as she grew up.
                    Old soldier that he was,for he had commanded a company under Jackson at New Orleans, and had been
                        a colonel during the war with Mexico,it was his habit to exact implicit  obedience within his own domain. He was the kindliest of masters, but his will was
                        law on the plantation, and as everybody there recognised the fact, he never had occasion to give
                        an order twice, or to mete out censure for disobedience. But for Agatha there was no law.
                        Colonel Archer would permit none, while she in her turn made it her one study in life to be and
                        do whatever her "Chummie" liked best.
                    Colonel Archer had a couple of gardeners, of course, but their work was mainly to do the rougher
                        things of horticulture. He and Agatha liked to do the rest for themselves. They prepared the
                        garden-beds, seeded them, and carefully nursed their growths into fruitage, he teaching her, as
                        they did so, that love of all growing things which is botany's best lesson.
                    "And the plants love us back again, Chummie," she one day said to him, while
                        she was still a little child. "They smile when we go near them, and sometimes the
                        pansies whisper to me. I'm sure of that."
                    She was at that time a slender child, with big, velvety brown eyes and a tangled mass of brown
                        hair which her maid Martha struggled in  vain to reduce to
                        subjection. She usually put on a sunbonnet when she went to the garden in the early morning; but
                        when it obstructed her vision, or otherwise annoyed her, she would push it off, letting it fall
                        to her back and hang by its strings about her neck. Even then it usually became an annoyance,
                        particularly when she wanted to climb a fruit-tree, and Martha would find it later, resting upon
                        a cluster of rose-bushes, or hung upon a fence-paling.
                    The pair of chumsthe sturdy old gentleman and the little girlhad no regular hours for any of
                        their employments, but at some hour of every day, they got out their books and read or studied
                        together.
                    They were much on horseback, too, and when autumn came they would tramp together through stubble
                        fields and broom-straw growths, shooting quails on the wingpartridges, they correctly called
                        them, as it is the habit of everybody in Virginia to do, for the reason that the bird which the
                        New York marketman calls "quail," is properly named "Partridge
                        Virginiensis," while the bird that the marketman sells as a partridge is not a
                        partridge at all, but a grouse. The girl became a  good shot during
                        her first season, and a year later she challenged her grandfather to a match, to see who could
                        bag the greater number of birds. At the end of the morning's sport, her bag outnumbered
                        her companion's by two birds; but when the count was made, she looked with solemn eyes
                        into her grandfather's face and, shaking her head in displeasure, said:
                    "Chummie, you've been cheating! I don't like to think it of you, but
                        it's true. You've missed several birds on purpose to let me get ahead of you.
                        I'll never count birds with you again."
                    The old gentleman tried to laugh the matter off, but the girl would not consent to that. After
                        awhile she said: "I'll forgive you this time, Chummie; but I'll never
                        count birds with you again."
                    "But why not, Ladybird?"
                    "Why, because you don't like to beat me, and I don't like to beat you.
                        So if we go on counting birds and each trying to lose the match, we'll get to be very
                        bad shots. Besides that, Chummie, cheating will impair your character."
                    But the girl was not left without the companionship of girls of her own age. Colonel Archer  was too wise a student of human nature for that. So from the
                        beginning he planned to give her the companionship she needed.
                    "You are the mistress of Willoughby, you know, Agatha," he said to her one day,
                        "and you must keep up the reputation of the place for hospitality. You must have your
                        dining-days like the rest, and invite your friends."
                    And she did so. She would send out her little notes, written in a hand that closely resembled
                        that of her grandfather, begging half a dozen girls, daughters of the planters round about, to
                        dine with her, and they would come in their carriages, attended by their negro maids. It was
                        Colonel Archer's delight to watch Agatha on these occasions, and observe the very
                        serious way in which she sought to discharge her duties as a hospitable hostess in becoming
                        fashion.
                    A little later he encouraged her to invite two or three of her young friends, now and then, to
                        stay for a few days or a week with her, after the Virginian custom. But not until she was twelve
                        years old did he consent to spare her for longer than a single night. Then he agreed with The
                        Oaks ladies that she should spend a few weeks  in the spring and a
                        few in the late summer or autumn of every year with them. They welcomed the arrangement as one
                        which would at least give them an opportunity to "form the girl." During her
                        semi-annual visits to The Oaks they very diligently set themselves to work drilling her in the
                        matter of respect for the formalities of life.
                    The process rather interested Agatha, and sometimes it even amused her. She was solemnly enjoined
                        not to do things that she had never thought of doing, and as earnestly instructed to do things
                        which she had never in her life neglected to do.
                    At first she was too young to formulate the causes of her interest and amusement in this process.
                        But her mind matured rapidly in association with her grandfather, and she began at last to
                        analyse the matter.
                    "When I go to The Oaks," she wrote to her "Chummie" one day,
                        "I feel like a sinner going to do penance; but the penance is rather amusing than
                        annoying. I am made to feel how shockingly improper I have been at Willoughby with you, Chummie,
                        during the preceding six months, and  how necessary it is for me to
                        submit myself for a season to a control that shall undo the effects of the liberty in which I
                        live at Willoughby. I am made to understand that liberty is the very worst thing a girl or a
                        woman can indulge herself in. Am I very bad, Chummie?"
                    For answer the old gentleman laughed aloud. Then he wrote:
                    "You see how shrewdly I have managed this thing, Ladybird. I wouldn't let you
                        go to The Oaks till you had become too fully confirmed in your habit of being free, ever to be
                        reformed."
                    Later, and more seriously, he said to the girl:
                    "Every human being is the better for being freewomen as well as men. Liberty to a human
                        being is like sunshine and fresh air. Restraint is like medicineexcellent for those who are ill,
                        but very bad indeed for healthy people. Did it ever occur to you, Agatha, that you never took a
                        pill or a powder in your life? You haven't needed medicine because you've had
                        air and sunshine; no more do you need restraint, and for the same reason. You are perfectly
                        healthy in your mind as well as in your body."
                    "But, Chummie, you don't know how very ill 
                        regulated I am. Aunt Sarah and Aunt Jane disapprove very seriously of many things that I
                        do."
                    "What things?"
                    "Well, they say, for example, that it is very unladylike for me to call you
                        'Chummie,'that it indicates a want of that respect for age and superiority
                        which every young personyou know I am only a 'young person' to themshould
                        scrupulously cultivate."
                    "Well, now, let me give you warning, Miss Agatha Ronald; if you ever call me anything
                        but 'Chummie,' I'll alter my will, and leave this plantation to the
                        Abolitionist Society as an experiment station."
                    Nevertheless, Agatha Ronald was, as has been said at the beginning of this chapter, a
                        particularly well ordered young gentlewoman so long as she remained as a guest with her aunts at
                        The Oaks. She loved the gentle old ladies dearly, and strove with all her might, while with
                        them, to comport herself in accordance with their standards of conduct on the part of a young
                        gentle-women.
                    Sometimes, however, her innocence misled  her, as it had done on
                        that morning when Baillie Pegram had met her at the bridge over Dogwood Branch. The spirit of
                        the morning had taken possession of her on that occasion, and she had so far reverted from her
                        condition of dame-nurtured grace into her habitual state of nature as to mount her horse and
                        ride away without the escort even of a negro groom. It was not at all unusual at that time for
                        young gentlewomen in Virginia to ride thus alone, but The Oaks ladies strongly disapproved the
                        custom, as they disapproved all other customs that had come into being since their own youth had
                        passed away, especially all customs that in any way tended to enlarge the innocent liberty of
                        young women. On this point the good ladies were as rigidly insistent as if they had been the
                        ladies superior of a convent of young nuns. They could not have held liberty for young
                        gentlewomen in greater dread and detestation, had they believed, as they certainly did not, in
                        the total depravity of womankind.
                    "It is not that we fear you would do anything wrong, dear," they would gently
                        explain. "It is only thatwell, you see a young gentlewoman cannot be too
                        careful."
                    
                    Agatha did not see, but she yielded to the prejudices of her aunts with a loyalty all the more
                        creditable to her for the reason that she did not and could not share their views. On this
                        occasion she had not thought of offending. It had not occurred to her that there could be the
                        slightest impropriety in her desire to greet the morning on horseback, and certainly it had not
                        entered her mind that she might meet Baillie Pegram and be compelled to accept a courtesy at his
                        hands. She knew, as she rode silently homeward after that meeting at the bridge, that in this
                        respect she had sinned beyond overlooking.
                    For Agatha Ronald knew that she must be on none but the most distant and formal terms with the
                        master of Warlock. She had learned that lesson at Christmas-time, three months before. She had
                        spent the Christmas season in Richmond, with some friends. There Baillie Pegram had met her for
                        the first time since she had attained her womanhoodfor he had been away at college, at law
                        school, or on his travels at the time of all her more recent sojourns at The Oaks. He had known
                        her very slightly as a shy and wild little girl, but the  woman
                        Agatha was a revelation to him, and her beauty not less than her charm of manner and her unusual
                        intelligence, had fascinated him. He frequented the house of her Richmond friends, and had
                        opportunities to learn more every day of herself. He did not pause to analyse his feeling for
                        her; he only knew that it was quite different from any that he had ever experienced before. And
                        Agatha, in her turn and in her candor, had admitted to herself that she
                        "liked" young Pegram better than any other young man she had ever met.
                    No word of love had passed between these two, and both were unconscious of their state of mind,
                        when their intercourse was suddenly interrupted. A note came to Baillie one day from Agatha, in
                        which the frank and fearlessly honest young woman wrote:
                    "I am not to see you any more, Mr. Pegram. I am informed by my relatives that there are
                        circumstances for which neither of us is responsible, which render it quite improper that you
                        and I should be friends. I am very sorry, but I think it my duty to tell you this myself. I
                        thank you for  all your kindnesses to me before we knew about this
                        thing."
                    That was absolutely all there was of the note, but it was quite enough. It had set Baillie to
                        inquiring concerning a feud of which he vaguely knew the existence, but to which he had never
                        before given the least attention.
                    That is how it came about that Agatha rode sadly homeward after the meeting at the bridge,
                        wondering how she could have done otherwise than accept the use of Baillie Pegram's
                        mare, and wondering still more what her aunts would say to her concerning the matter.
                    "Anyhow," she thought at last, "I've done no intentional
                        wrong. Chummie would not blame me if he were here, and I am not sure that I shall accept much
                        blame at anybody's else hands. I'll be good and submissive if I can, butwell,
                        I don't know. Maybe I'll hurry back home to Chummie."
                
                
                
                    III
                    JESSAMINE AND HONEYSUCKLE
                    
                    IT was a peculiarity of inherited quarrels between old Virginia families that they must never be
                        recognised outwardly by any act of discourtesy, and still less by any neglect of formal
                        attention where courtesy was called for. Such quarrels were never mentioned between the families
                        that were involved in them, and equally they were never forgotten. Each member of either family
                        owed it to himself to treat all members of the other family with the utmost deference, while
                        never for a moment permitting that deference to lapse into anything that could be construed to
                        mean forgiveness or forgetfulness.
                    Agatha, as we have seen, had twice violated the code under which such affairs were conducted;
                        once in the note she had sent to Baillie Pegram in Richmond, and for the second time in giving
                        him permission to call at The Oaks to inquire  concerning her
                        journey homeward on his mare. But on both occasions she had been out of the presence and
                        admonitory influence of her aunts, and when absent from them, Agatha Ronald was not at all well
                        regulated, as we know. She was given to acting upon her own natural and healthy minded impulses,
                        and such impulses were apt to be at war with propriety as propriety was understood and insisted
                        upon at The Oaks.
                    But Baillie Pegram was not minded to make any mistake in a matter of so much delicacy and
                        importance. He had received Agatha's permission to make that formal call of inquiry,
                        which was customary on all such occasions, and she in her heedlessness had probably meant what
                        she said, as it was her habit to do. But Baillie knew very well that her good aunts would
                        neither expect nor wish him to call upon their niece. At the same time he must not leave his
                        omission to do so unexplained. He must send a note of apology, not to Agatha,as he would have
                        done to any other young woman under like circumstances,but to her aunts instead. In a note to
                        them he reported his sudden summons to Richmond, adding that as he was uncertain as to the  length of his stay there, he begged the good ladies to accept his
                        absence from home as his sufficient excuse for not calling to inquire concerning the behaviour
                        of his mare during their niece's journey upon that rather uncertain-minded
                        animal's back. This note he gave to Sam for delivery, when Sam brought him the horse he
                        had ordered but no longer wanted.
                    Baillie Pegram had all the pride of his lineage and his class. He had sought to forget all about
                        Agatha Ronald after her astonishing little note had come to him some months before in Richmond,
                        and until this morning he had believed that he had accomplished that forgetfulness. But now the
                        thought of her haunted him ceaselessly. All the way to Richmond her beauty and her charm, as she
                        had stood there by the roadside, filled his mind with visions that tortured him. He tried with
                        all his might to dismiss the visions and to think of something else. He bought the daily papers
                        and tried to interest himself in their excited utterances, but failed. Red-hot leaders, that
                        were meant to stir all Virginian souls to wrathful resolution, made no impression on his mind.
                        He read them, and knew not what  he had read. He was thinking of
                        the girl by the roadside, and his soul was fascinated with the memory of her looks, her words,
                        her finely modulated voice, her ways, as she had tried to refuse his offer of assistance. Had he
                        been of vain and conceited temper, he might have flattered himself with the thought that her
                        very hauteur in converse with him implied something more and better than indifference on her
                        part toward him. But that thought did not enter his mind. He thought instead:
                    "What a sublimated idiot I am! That girl is nothing to meworse than nothing.
                        Circumstances place her wholly outside my acquaintance, except in the most formal fashion. She
                        is a young gentlewomen of my own classdistinctly superior to all the other young gentlewomen of
                        that class whom I have ever met,and ordinarily it would be the most natural thing in the world
                        for me to pay my addresses to her. But in this case that is completely out of the question. To
                        me at least she is the unattainable. I must school myself to think of her no more, and that
                        ought to be easy enough, as I am not in love with her and am not permitted even to  think of being so. It's simply a craze that has taken
                        possession of me for a time,the instinct of the huntsman, to whom quarry is desirable in the
                        precise ratio of its elusiveness. There, I've thought the whole thing out to an end,
                        and now I must give my mind to something more important."
                    Yet even in the midst of the excitement that prevailed in Richmond that day, Baillie Pegram did
                        not quite succeed in driving out of his mind the memory of the little tableau by the bridge, or
                        forgetting how supremely fascinating Agatha Ronald had seemed, as she had haughtily declined his
                        offer of service, and still more as she had reluctantly accepted it, and ridden away after so
                        cleverly evading his offer to help her mount.
                    It had been his purpose to remain in Richmond for a week or more, but on the third morning he
                        found himself homeward bound, and filled with vain imaginings. Just why he had started homeward
                        before the intended time, it would have puzzled him to say; but several times he caught himself
                        wondering if there would be awaiting him at Warlock an answer to his formal note of apology for
                        not having made a call which nobody  had expected him to make. He
                        perfectly knew that no such answer was to be expected, and especially that if there should be
                        any answer at all, it must be one of formal and repellent courtesy, containing no message from
                        Agatha of the kind that his troubled imagination persisted in conceiving in spite of the scorn
                        with which he rejected the absurd conjecture.
                    Nevertheless as he neared home he found himself half-expecting to find there an answer to his
                        note, and he found it. It gave him no pleasure in the reading, and in his present state of mind
                        he could not find even a source of amusement in the stilted formality of its rhetoric. It had
                        been written by one of Agatha's aunts, and signed by both of them. Thus it ran:
                    "The Misses Ronald of The Oaks feel themselves deeply indebted to Mr. Baillie Pegram for
                        his courtesy to their niece and guest, Miss Agatha Ronald, on the occasion of her recent
                        misadventure. They have also to thank Mr. Pegram most sincerely for having taken upon himself
                        the disagreeable duty of giving painless death to the  unfortunate
                        animal that their niece was riding upon that occasion. They have to inform Mr. Pegram that as
                        Miss Agatha Ronald is making her preparations for an almost immediate return to her maternal
                        grandfather's plantation of Willoughby, in Fauquier, and as she will probably begin her
                        journey before Mr. Pegram's return from Richmond, there will scarcely be opportunity
                        for his intended call to inquire concerning her welfare after her homeward ride upon the mare
                        which he so graciously placed at her disposal at a time of sore need. They beg to report that
                        the beautiful animal behaved with the utmost gentleness during the journey.
                    "The Oaks ladies beg to assure Mr. Pegram of their high esteem, and to express their
                        hope that he will permit none of the events of this troubled time to prevent him from dining
                        with them at The Oaks on the third Friday of each month, as it has been his courteous custom to
                        do in the past. The Misses Ronald remain,
                    "Most respectfully,
                    "SARAH RONALD,
                         "JANE RONALD."
                    
                    This missive was more than a little bewildering. Its courtesy was extreme. Even in practically
                        telling Baillie Pegram not to call upon their niece, the good ladies had adroitly managed to
                        make their message seem rather one of regret than of prohibition. Certainly there was not a word
                        in the missive at which offence could be taken, and not an expression lacking, the lack of which
                        could imply negligence. The young man read it over several times before he could make out its
                        exact significance, and even then he was not quite sure that he fully understood.
                    "It reads like a 'joint note' from the Powers to the Grand
                        Turk," he said to the young manhis bosom friendwhom he had found awaiting him at
                        Warlock on his return. This young man, Marshall Pollard, had been Baillie Pegram's
                        intimate at the university, and now that university days were done, it was his habit to come and
                        go at will at Warlock, the plantation of which Baillie was owner and sole white occupant with
                        the exception of a maiden aunt who presided over his household.
                    The intimacy between these two young men was always a matter of wonder to their friends.  They had few tastes in common, except that both had a passionate
                        love for books, Baillie Pegram was fond of fishing and shooting and riding to hounds. He loved a
                        horse from foretop to fetlock. His friend cared nothing for sport of any kind, and very often he
                        walked over long distances rather than "jolt on horseback," as he explained.
                        He was thoroughly manly, but of dreamy, introspective moods and quiet tastes. But these two
                        agreed in their love of books, and especially of such rare old books as abounded in the Warlock
                        library, the accumulation of generations of cultivated and intellectual men and women. They
                        agreed, too, in their fondness for each other.
                    Marshall Pollard was never regarded as a guest at Warlock, or treated as such. He came and went
                        at will, giving no account of either his comings or his goings. He did precisely as he pleased,
                        and so did his host, neither ever thinking it necessary to offer an apology for leaving the
                        other alone for a day or for a week, as the case might be. Pollard had his own quarters in the
                        rambling old house, with perfect liberty for their best furnishing. Often the two friends became
                             interested together in a single subject of literary or
                        historical study, and would pore over piles of books in the great hallway if it rained, and out
                        under the spreading trees on the lawn if the weather were fair. Often, on the other hand, their
                        moods would take different courses, and for days together they would scarcely see each other
                        except at meal-times. Theirs was a friendship that trusted itself implicitly.
                    "It's an ideal friendship, this of yours and mine," said Marshall, in
                        his dreamy way, one day. "It never interferes with the perfect liberty of either. What
                        a pity it is that it must come to an end!"
                    "But why should it come to an end?" asked his less introspective friend.
                    "O, because one or the other of us will presently take to himself a wife," was
                        the answer.
                    "But why should that make a difference? It will not if I am the one to marry first. That
                        will only make your life at Warlock the pleasanter for you. It will give you two devoted friends
                        instead of one."
                    "It will do nothing of the kind," answered Pollard, with that confidence of
                        tone which suggests  that a matter has been completely thought out.
                        "Our friendship is based upon the fact that we both care more for each other than for
                        anybody else. When you get married, you'll naturally and properly care more for your
                        wife than for me. You'd be a brute if you didn't, and I'd quarrel
                        with you. After your marriage we shall continue to be friends, of course, but not in the old
                        way. I'll come to Warlock whenever I please, and go away whenever it suits me to go,
                        just as I do now. But I shall make my bow to my lady when I come, and my adieus to her when I
                        take my departure. I'll enjoy doing that, because I know that your wife will be a
                        charming person, worthy of your devotion to her. But it will not be the same as now. And it will
                        be best so. 'Male and female created he them,' and it would be an abominable
                        shame if you were to remain single for many years to come. It is your duty, and it will
                        presently be your highest pleasure to make some loving and lovable woman as happy as God
                        intended her to be. Better than thatthe love of a good woman will make your life richer and
                        worthier than it is now. It will ennoble you, and fit you for the life that your good qualities
                             destine you to lead. You see I've been studying your
                        case, Baillie, and I've made up my mind that there never was a man who needed to marry
                        more than you do. You're a thoroughly good fellow nowbut that's about all.
                        You'll be something mightily better than that, when you have the inspiration of a good
                        woman's love to spur you out of your present egotistic self-content, and give you
                        higher purposes in life than those of the well-bred, respectable citizen that you are. You pay
                        your debts; you take excellent care of your negroes; you serve your neighbours as an unpaid
                        magistrate and all that, and it is all very well. But you are capable of much higher things, and
                        when you get yourself a wife worthy of you, you'll rise to a new level of character and
                        conduct."
                    "And how about you?" the friend asked.
                    "O, as for me. I don't count. You see, I'm that anomalous thing, a
                        Virginian who doesn't ride horses or care for sport. I'm abnormal. Women like
                        me in a way, and the more elderly ones among them do me the honour to approve me. But that is
                        all. Young women are apt to fall in love with robuster young fellows."
                    
                    "But you are robust," quickly answered Baillie, "and altogether
                        manly."
                    "No, I'm not. I'm physically strong enough, of course, but strength
                        isn't all of robustness. I can lift as much as you can, but I don't like to
                        lift, and you do. I can jump as high, but I don't like to jump, while you do. When we
                        were canoeing in Canada a year ago, I could shoot a rapid as well as you, but I'd very
                        much rather have walked down the bank, leaving the guide to navigate the canoe, while you often
                        sent the guide about his business and rebuked his impertinence in offering help where you wanted
                        to do your own helping of yourself without any interference on his part. I remember that just as
                        we were starting on the long and difficult journey to the Lake of the Woods, you dismissed the
                        whole crew of half-breed hangers-on, and we set out alone. I would never have done that, greatly
                        as I detested the unclean company. I went with you, of course, but I went relying upon you for
                        guidance, just as I should have gone relying upon the half-breeds if you had not been with me.
                        We two are differently built, I tell you. Now, even here at Warlock, I send for Sam when I want
                             my studs changed from one shirt to another, while only this
                        morning you cleaned your own boots rather than wait for Sam after you had whistled for him
                        thrice. I don't think I'm lazier than you are, and I know I'm not
                        more afraid of anything. But you rejoice in toilsome journeys, while I prefer to take them
                        easily, hiring other people to do the hard work. You relish danger just as you do red pepper,
                        while I prefer safety and a less pungent seasoning. Now, young women of our kind and class
                        prefer your kind of man to my kind, and so you are likely to marry, while I am not. Another
                        thing. I saw you throw aside a copy of Shakespeare the other day without even marking your place
                        in the volume, because a company of gentlewomen had driven up to visit your aunt, and you
                        completely forgot your Shakespeare in thinking of the gentlewomen. Now I, in a like case, should
                        have edged a little farther around the tree, read on to the end of the scene, marked my place,
                        and only then have discovered that the gentlewomen had driven up. Women like your ways better
                        than mine, and they are entirely right."
                    In all this, Marshall Pollard exaggerated somewhat,  in playful
                        fashion, and to his own discrediting. But in the main his analysis of the difference between
                        himself and his friend was quite correct.
                    It was to this friend that Baillie Pegram spoke of the note he had received from The Oaks ladies,
                        saying that it read "like a joint note from the Powers to the Grand Turk."
                    "Tell me about it," answered Marshall.
                    "O, read it for yourself," Baillie replied, handing him the sheet.
                        "The stilted ceremoniousness of it," he presently added, "is easy
                        enough to understand, but I can't, for the life of me, see why the good ladies of The
                        Oaks felt it incumbent upon themselves to write to me at all. They are always scrupulously
                        attentive to forms and conventionalities when discharging any obligation of courtesy, and in
                        this case they have had the rather embarrassing duty imposed upon them of telling me not to call
                        upon their niece, who is also their guest. That sufficiently accounts for the stiff formality of
                        their rhetoric, and their scrupulous attention to the niceties of courtesy in the embarrassing
                        case, but"
                    "Remember, also," broke in Marshall Pollard, 
                        "that they are 'maiden ladies,' while you, my dear, unsuspicious boy,
                        are a particularly marriageable young man."
                    "Don't talk nonsense, Marshall; this is a serious matter," answered
                        Baillie.
                    "It isn't nonsense at all that I'm talking," said his friend.
                        "I'm speaking only words of 'truth and soberness.' The
                        Misses Sarah and Jane Ronald, as I understand the matter, are highly bred and blue-bloodedly
                        descended Virginia gentlewomen, who happen to be as yet unmarried. Very naturally and properly
                        they adopt a guarded manner in addressing a missive to a peculiarly marriageable young gentleman
                        like you, lest their intentions be misinterpreted."
                    "Why, they are old enough," Baillie replied, "to be my
                        grandmothers!"
                    "True," answered the other, "but you wouldn't venture to
                        suggest that fact to the mind of either of them, would you, Baillie?"
                    "Certainly not, but"
                    "Certainly not. And certainly they in their turn do not give special weight to that
                        fact. When will you learn to understand women a little bit, Baillie? Don't you know
                        that no woman  ever thinks of herself as too old or too ugly or too
                        unattractive to fascinate a young man? Especially no well-bred spinster, accustomed to be
                        courted in her youth, and treated with deference in her middle age, ever realises that she is so
                        old as to be privileged to lay aside those reserves with which she was trained in youth to guard
                        her maidenly modesty against the ugly imputation of a desire to 'throw herself at the
                        head' of a young gentleman possessed of good manners, good looks, an old family name,
                        and a plantation of five or six thousand acres? Now, don't let your vanity run away
                        with you, my boy. I do not mean for one moment to suggest that either of The Oaks ladies would
                        think of accepting an offer of marriage from you or anybody else. I am too gallant to imagine
                        that they have not had abundant opportunities of marriage in their day. At the same time,
                        propriety is propriety, you know, and the conduct of an 'unattached female'
                        cannot be too carefully guarded against the possibility of misinterpretation."
                    Baillie laughed, and presently fell into silence for a space. Finally his companion lazily said:
                    "It is time for you to be off, if you are going."
                    
                    "Going where?"
                    "Why, to dine at The Oaks, of course. You are invited for the third Friday of each
                        month, if I understand the matter correctly, and this is the third Friday of April, I
                        believe."
                    "Why, so it is. I hadn't thought of the date. By Jove, I'll go!
                        There's just a chance that she hasn't started yet."
                    "It's awkward, of course," said Pollard, in his meditative,
                        philosophical way, "especially with this war coming on. But these things never will
                        adjust themselves to circumstances in a spirit of rationality and accommodation."
                    "What on earth do you mean, Marshall? I don't understand."
                    "Of course not. The bird caught in the net of the fowler does not usually see just what
                        is the matter with him."
                    "But Marshall"
                    "O, I'll explain as well as I can. I mean only that you are in love with Agatha
                        Ronald. Of course you're totally unconscious of your state of mind, but you'll
                        find it out after awhile. It is an utterly irrational state of mind for you to be in, but the
                        malady often takes that form, I  believe, and I've done
                        you a service in telling you about it, for as a rule a man never finds out what's the
                        matter with him in such a case until some friend tells him. He just goes on making a fool of
                        himself until somebody else jogs his elbow with information which he alone has need of. Now
                        suppose you tell me all about this case. What is it that stands between you and the young
                        lady?"
                    Again Baillie laughed. But this time the laugh was accompanied by a tell-tale flushing of the
                        face.
                    "The whole thing is ridiculous." he presently said. "It
                        couldn't have happened anywhere but in this dear old Virginia of ours. I'll
                        tell you all I know about it. My grandfather whom I never saw in my life, and Miss Agatha
                        Ronald's father, who died before she was born, were friends, like you and me. They
                        owned adjoining plantations,Warlock and The Oaks, both held by original grants to their
                        great-grandfathers, made in the early colonial times. But the county clerk's office
                        burned up, a generation or two ago, and with it all the records that could show where the
                        boundaries between these two plantations lay. In  trying to
                        determine those boundaries one unlucky day, when both had probably taken too much or too little
                        Madeira for dinner, the two irascible old gentlemen fell into a dispute as to where the boundary
                        line should run through a wretched little scrap of ground down there on Nib's Creek,
                        which never had been cultivated, never has been, and never will be. The thing was not worth a
                        moment's thought in itself, but the gout got into it, or in some other way the two
                        absurd old gentlemen's dignity got itself involved, and so they quarrelled. If there
                        had been time, they would have laughed the thing off presently over a mint-julep. But unhappily
                        one of them died, and that made a permanent family quarrel of the dispute. All the women-kind
                        took it up as an inherited feud, which made it impossible that any Pegram should have aught to
                        do with any Ronald, or any Ronald with any Pegram. So much, it was held, was due to the tender
                        memory of the dead. But, after our Virginian tradition, the individual members of both families
                        have been held bound to treat each other with the extreme of formal but quite unfriendly
                        courtesy. That is why I have been required,  from my fifteenth
                        birthday onward, to dine at The Oaks on the third Friday of every month when I happened to be in
                        the county on that day. I had only the vaguest notion of the situation until last Christmas,
                        when circumstances brought it to my attention. Then I made my good Aunt Catherine tell me all
                        about it. When I learned what the matter in dispute was, I sent for the family lawyer, and
                        ordered him to make out a deed to The Oaks ladies, conveying all my right, title, and interest
                        in the disputed piece of land to them 'for and in consideration of the sum of one
                        dollar in hand paid, receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged.' I sent the deed to The
                        Oaks ladies, with a perhaps too effusive note, asking them to accept it as an evidence of my
                        desire to make an end of a quarrel which had long alienated those who should have remained
                        friends."
                    "What an idiot you made of yourself by doing that!" broke in young Pollard.
                    "Of course, and I soon found it out. The Oaks ladies wrote that they had never, by any
                        act or word, recognised the existence of a quarrel; that if such quarrel existed, it lay between
                        the  dead, who had not authorised them or me to adjust it; and that
                        they, holding only a life interest in The Oaks, by virtue of their 'poor
                        brother's' kindly will, were not authorised either to alienate any part of the
                        fee, or to add to it, by deed of gift or otherwise; that their 'poor brother'
                        had never been accustomed to accept gifts of land or of anything else from others, and finally
                        that they were sure his spirit would not sanction the purchase, for the miserable consideration
                        of one dollar, of a piece of land which, till the time of his death, he had believed to be
                        absolutely his own. There as no use arguing such a case or explaining it. So I have let it rest,
                        and have gone once a month to dine with The Oaks ladies, as a matter of duty. It's all
                        absurd, but"
                    "But it interferes with your interest in Miss Agatha," broke in the friend.
                        "Take my advice, and don't let it. Off with you to The Oaks, and ten to one
                        you'll find the young lady still there. The date of her departure was not fixed when
                        this diplomatic note was despatched, and as you were not expected to receive the communication
                        for a week to come, she is probably still there. If so, by the way, please don't
                        mention my presence at  Warlock. You seewell, I have met the young
                        lady at her grandfather's, and properly I ought to pay my respects to her, now that
                        she's a guest on a plantation adjoining that on which I am staying. But I
                        don't want to. Your saddle-horses jolt so confoundedly, and besides, I've
                        discovered up-stairs a copy of old T. Gordon's seventeenth century translation of
                        Tacitus, with his essays on that author, and his bitter-tongued comments on all preceding
                        translations of his favourite classic. I want an afternoon with the old boy."
                    "You certainly are a queer fellow, Marshall," said Baillie.
                    "How so? Because I like old books? Or is it because I don't like the jolting of
                        your horses?"
                    "Why haven't you told me that you knew Miss Agatha Ronald?"
                    "I have told youwithin the last minute."
                    "But why didn't you tell me before?"
                    "O, well,perhaps I didn't think of it. Never mind that. It is time for you to
                        be off, unless you want the soup and your welcome to grow cold while waiting for you."
                    
                    When Baillie had ridden away, Marshall Pollard sat idly for a time in the porch. Then tossing
                        aside the book he had been holding in his hand but not reading, he rose and went to his room.
                        There he searched among his belongings for a little Elzevir volume, and took from between its
                        leaves a sprig of dried yellow jessamine.
                    "It is a poisonous flower," he said, as he tossed it out of the window.
                        "She warned me of that when I took it from her hand. She was altogether
                        right."
                    Apparently pursuing a new-born purpose, the young man returned to the porch, broke off a sprig of
                        honeysuckle leavesfor the vine was not yet in flowerand carefully placed it between the pages of
                        the Elzevir.
                    "The honeysuckle," he said to himself, "is unlike the yellow
                        jessamine. It is sweet and wholesome. So is the friendship of the man from whose vine I have
                        plucked it."
                
                
                
                    IV
                    IN REVOLT
                    
                    WHEN Agatha reached The Oaks, mounted upon Baillie Pegram's mare, her reception at the
                        hands of her aunts was one of almost stunned astonishment. The two good ladies had learned an
                        hour before her coming that she had ridden away alone that morning while yet they had slept, and
                        they had carefully prepared a lecture upon that exceeding impropriety, for delivery on the young
                        woman's return.
                    But when they saw her dismount from Baillie Pegram's mare, they were well-nigh
                        speechless with horror at her depravity. The deliverance that had been so carefully prepared for
                        her chastening no longer met the requirements of the case. A new and far severer rebuke must be
                        extemporised, and the necessity of that was an additional offence on the part of the young woman
                        who had forced it upon them. They were  not accustomed to speak
                        extemporaneously on any subject of importance. To do so involved the danger of saying too much,
                        or saying it less effectively than they wished, orworse stillleaving unsaid things that they
                        very much wished to say. In response to their horrified questionings, Agatha made the simplest
                        and most direct statement possible.
                    "The morning was fine, and I wanted to ride. I rode as far as Dogwood Branch. There my
                        poor horsethe one that my grandfather sent down for me to ride while heremet with a mishap. His
                        foot went through a hole in the bridge, and in his struggle to extricate it, he broke his leg.
                        Mr. Pegram came along and released the poor beastie's foot, but it was too late. So he
                        insisted upon my taking his mare, and showed me that I couldn't refuse. He sent his
                        servant to ride on a mule behind me in case I should have trouble with his only partially broken
                        mare. He promised to put my poor horse out of his misery. There. That's all there is to
                        tell."
                    The little speech was made in a tone and with a manner that suggested difficult self-restraint.
                             When it was ended the two good aunts sat for a full minute
                        looking at the girl with eyes that were eloquent of reproacha reproach that for the moment could
                        find no fit words for its expression. At last the torrent camenot with a rushing violence of
                        speech, but with a steady, overwhelming flow. The girl stood still, seemingly impassive.
                    "Will you not be seated?" presently asked Aunt Sarah.
                    "If you don't mind, I prefer to stand," she answered, in the gentlest,
                        most submissive tone imaginable, for Agathaangry and outragedwas determined to maintain her
                        self-control to the end. Her gentle submissiveness of seeming deceived her censors to their
                        undoing. Satisfied that they might rebuke her to their hearts' content, they proceeded,
                        adding one word of bitter reproach and condemnation to another, and waxing steadily stronger in
                        their righteous wrath. Still the girl stood like a soldier under a fire which he is forbidden to
                        return. Still she controlled her countenance and restrained herself from speech. Only a slight
                        flushing of the face,  and now and then a tremor of the lip, gave
                        indication of emotion of any kind.
                    Not until the storm had completely expended its wrath upon her head did Agatha Ronald open her
                        lips. Then she spoke as Agatha Ronald:
                    "Will you please order my carriage to be ready for me on Saturday morning, Aunt Sarah?
                        My maid is too ill to travel to-morrow or the next day. But by Saturday morning she will be well
                        enough, and I shall begin my journey to Willoughby at nine o'clock, if you will kindly
                        order a cup of coffee served half an hour before the usual breakfast-time on Saturday."
                    She departed instantly from the room, giving no time or opportunity for reply or remonstrance.
                    "Perhaps we have spoken too severely, Jane," said Aunt Sarah.
                    Perhaps they had. At any rate, it had been Agatha's purpose to remain a full month
                        longer at The Oaks before beginning the long homeward carriage journey which alone Colonel
                        Archer permitted to his grandchild. Railroads were new in those days, and Colonel Archer had not
                        reconciled himself to them.
                    "They are convenient for carrying freight,"  he
                        said, "but a young lady isn't freight. She should travel in her own
                        carriage."
                    Later in the day Agatha reappeared, as gentle and smiling as usual, and as attentive as ever to
                        the comfort of her aunts. Her manner was perfect in its docility, for she had decided that so
                        along as she should remain under their roof, it was her duty to herself, and incidentally to her
                        aunts, to minister in every way she could to their pleasure, and to obey their slightest
                        indicated wishes implicitly. They were misled somewhat by her manner, which they construed to be
                        an indication of submission.
                    "You will surely not think of leaving us on Saturday, dear, now that you have thought
                        the matter over calmly," said Aunt Sarah; "and perhaps we spoke too severely
                        this morning. But you will overlook that, I am sure, in view of the concern we naturally feel
                        for your bringing up."
                    A hitter and convincing speech was on the girl's lips ready for delivery,a speech in
                        which she should declare her independence, and assert her right as a woman fully grown to
                        determine her conduct for herself within the limits of perfect 
                        innocence,but she drove it back into her heart, and restrained her utterance to the single
                        sentence:
                    "I shall begin my journey on Saturday morning."
                    Agatha Ronald was in revolt against an authority which she deemed oppressive, and such revolt was
                        natural enough on the part of a daughter of Virginia whose ancestry included three signers of
                        the Declaration of Independence, and at least half a dozen fighting soldiers of the Revolution.
                        It was in her blood to resent and resist injustice and to defy the authority that decreed
                        injustice. But after the fashion of those revolutionary ancestors of hers, she would do
                        everything with due attention to "a decent respect for the opinions of
                        mankind." She had decided to quit The Oaks because she could not and would not longer
                        submit to a discipline which she felt to be arbitrary, unreasonable, and unjust. But she was
                        determined to be as gentle and as gentlewomanly as possible in the manner of her sleaving. It
                        was her fixed purpose never again to visit that plantationher birthplaceuntil she should be
                        summoned thither to take possession  as its sole inheritor, but she
                        let slip no hint of this determination to distress her aunts, who, after all, meant only
                        kindness to her by their severity.
                    "I'll say nothing about it." she resolved. "I'll
                        just go back to Chummie. He understands me, and I'll never leave him
                    again."
                
                
                
                    V
                    AT THE OAKS
                    
                    WHEN Baillie Pegram rode into The Oaks grounds on that third Friday of April, 1861, the first
                        person he encountered was none other than Agatha. She was gowned all in white, except that she
                        had tied a cherry-coloured ribbon about her neck. She was wholly unbonneted, and was armed with
                        a little gardening implementhoe on one side and miniature rake on the other. She was busy over a
                        flower-bed, and the young man, rounding a curve in the shrubbery, came upon her, to the complete
                        surprise of both.
                    The situation might have been embarrassing but for the ease and perfect self-possession with
                        which the girl accepted it. She greeted her visitor, to his astonishment, without any of the
                        hauteur that had marked her demeanour on the occasion of their last previous meeting. Here at
                             The Oaks she felt herself under the entirely adequate
                        protection of her aunts. She had therefore no occasion to stand upon the defensive. Out there at
                        the bridge she had been herself solely responsible for her conduct, and dependent upon herself
                        for the maintenance of her dignity. Here Mr. Baillie Pegram was the guest of her people, while
                        out there he had been a person casually and unwillingly encountered, and not on any account to
                        be permitted any liberty of intercourse. Besides all these conclusive differences of
                        circumstance, there was the additional fact that Agatha was in revolt against authority, and
                        very strongly disposed to maintain her perfect freedom of innocent action. So she gave her
                        visitor a garden-gloved hand as he dismounted, and slowly walked with him toward the house.
                    "I attended an opera once," she chattered, "when I was a very little
                        girl. I remember that I thought the basso a porpoise, and the tenor a conceited popinjay, and
                        the prima donna a fat woman, but I fell completely in love with the haymakers in the chorus. So
                        whenever I go gardening I find myself instinctively trying to make myself look as like them as I
                        can. That, I  suppose, is why I tied a red ribbon about my neck
                        this morning."
                    Here Baillie Pegram missed an opportunity to make a particularly gallant and flattering speech.
                        To any other woman, under like circumstances, he would have said something of her success in
                        making a charmingly attractive picture of herself. But there was much of reverence in his
                        admiration for Agatha, and he felt that a merely complimentary speech addressed to her would be
                        a frivolous impertinence. So instead he asked:
                    "Do you often go out gardening?"
                    "O, yes, always when the weather permits, and sometimes when it forbids. At Willoughby
                        I've often gone out in a waterproof to train my flowers and vines. I'm just
                        going away from The Oaks, and I've been digging up a hideously formal bed which the
                        gardener's soul delights in, and sowing mixed portulaca instead of the priggish plants.
                        Portulaca smiles at you,  you know, when you get up soon enough in
                        the morning to see it in its glory. But I'll never see the smiles in this
                        case."
                    "But why not?"
                    "Why, I'm leaving The Oaks on Saturday, you know,or rather you do not know,and
                        I'm not coming back for a long, long time."
                    "May I again presume to ask why not?"
                    "O, well, I must go to my grandfather. If I don't he'll enlist or join
                        a company, or get a commission, or whatever else it is that a man does when he makes a soldier
                        out of himself. You see I'm the only person who can manage my grandfather."
                    "But surely, at his age"
                    "O, yes, I know. He's over eighty now, but you don't know him very
                        well, or you'd understand. He was a soldier under Jackson at New Orleans, and a colonel
                        in the Mexican War, and he'll go into this war, too, if I don't go home and
                        tell him he mustn't. I'm going to-morrow morning."
                    (Manifestly the girl wanted to chatter. Women often do that when they are anxious to avoid
                        serious conversation. If men never do it, it is only because they lack the intellectual
                        alertness necessary. They hem and haw, and make stupid remarks about the weather instead, and
                        succeed only in emphasising the embarrassment which a  woman would
                        completely bury under charming chatter.)
                    "You haven't seen my aunts yet, I suppose?" Miss Agatha presently
                        asked.
                    "No. I'm just arriving at The Oaks. I dine here, you know, on the third Friday
                        of every month."
                    "Yesso I've heard. I don't think the aunties expected you to-day.
                        They'll be glad to see you, of course, but I think they thought you were still in
                        Richmond."
                    Baillie wondered if this was a covert rebuke to him for having ventured upon the premises while
                        Agatha was still there. The girl was not altogether an easy person to understand. In any case
                        her remark revealed the fact that the question of his coming had been discussed in the house and
                        decided in the negative. It was with some embarrassment, therefore, that lie presented himself
                        to those formidable personages, The Oaks ladies, and tried to treat his own coming quite as a
                        matter of course. But if his presence was in any wise unwelcome to them, there was nothing in
                        their demeanour to suggest the fact. They expressed no surprise whatever, and only a placid,  well-bred self-congratulation that absence had not deprived them
                        of the pleasure of his company at dinner, as they had feared that it might. Then one of them
                        added:
                    "It is unfortunate that Agatha is to dine at The Forest to-day, with our cousins, the
                        Misses Blair. By the way," tinkling a bell, "it is time to order the carriage,
                        and for you to change your gown, Agatha, dear."
                    Baillie Pegram happened to catch sight of the young girl's face as these words were
                        spoken, and he read there enough of surprise to convince him that if it had been previously
                        arranged for her to drive to The Forest for dinner, she at least had heard nothing of the matter
                        until now. But whether the surprise reflected in her face was one of pleasure or the reverse,
                        she gave him no chance to guess. She merely glanced at the tall and slowly ticking clock, and
                        said:
                    "I'll go at once, auntie. I did not know it was so late. Excuse the abruptness
                        of my leave-taking, Mr. Pegram, and let me say good-bye, for I leave for Willoughby to-morrow
                        morning."
                    It was all an admirable bit of actingthe more admirable, Baillie thought, for the reason  that the scene had been suddenly extemporised and not rehearsedfor
                        he was satisfied that Agatha at least had been completely surprised by the announcement that she
                        was to dine at The Forest that day.
                    Unfortunately the acting was destined to be wasted, for almost immediately after
                        Agatha's departure for her chamber, a carriage drove up, and Baillie gallantly assisted
                        Miss Blair herself to alight from it. She greeted her cousins of The Oaks effusively in the
                        ceaseless speech with which it was her practice to meet and greet her friends.
                    "Isn't it good of me, Cousin Sarah and Cousin Jane? I had a positive headache
                        to-day, but I was determined to drive over and dine with you, so as to bid Agatha good-bye.
                        Where is the dear child? You see we heard only this morning that she had changed her plans and
                        was going to leave us to-morrow. So I just had to come and dine"and so forth, through a
                        speech that fortunately gave The Oaks ladies time a-plenty in which to collect their wits and
                        avoid all appearance of discomfiture.
                    "You are always so good and thoughtful,"  said
                        Miss Sarah, as soon as Miss Blair left a little hole in her conversation. "We knew
                        you'd want to see Agatha before she left, and we were just planning to send her to you
                        for dinner. In fact she's gone up to dress. But this is so much
                        better, particularly as we have Mr. Baillie Pegram with us, too. This is his regular day, you
                        know, and he is always so mindful of his engagements. We had feared we should miss seeing him
                        to-day, as he was away in Richmond; but he got home in time, and he never fails us when within
                        reach. He has an admirable habit of punctuality which the other young men of our rather lax time
                        might emulate with advantage."
                    Here was Baillie Pegram's opportunity, but he missed it. If he had possessed one-half or
                        one-tenth the tact that Agatha had shown fifteen minutes before, he would have protested that,
                        much to his regret, he could not remain to dinner that day, as he had a guest of his own at
                        Warlock, and had ridden over only to make his apologies and express his regret. But Baillie
                        Pegram, not being a woman, did not think of the right thing to say until it was one full minute
                        too late, wherefore,  of course, it would not do for him to say it
                        at all.
                    What a pity it is that men can't be womensometimes! Just for lack of that tact which is
                        instinctive in a woman, the master of Warlock was doomed to dine that day under a sense of
                        intrusion on his part, which certainly did not contribute to his enjoyment of the dinner or the
                        company. But he had only himself to blame, and, like the resolute fellow that he was, he
                        determined to bear the consequences of his blundering stupidity with the best grace he could. He
                        professed the keenest delight in the unexpected pleasure of having Miss Blair for his fellow
                        guest, adding, with an obeisance to The Oaks ladies, "Though of course one needs no
                        other company than that of our hostesses themselves, to make the day of a dinner at The Oaks
                        altogether delightful."
                    Obviously the young man was improving in tactfulness under the stimulus of circumstances.
                    When dinner was served half an hour later, he gave his arm to Miss Sarah, and entered the stately
                        but gloomy old dining-room, with its high-backed, carved mahogany chairs, its stained-glass  cathedral windows, and its general atmosphere of solemnity and
                        depression, with such grace as a resolute spirit could command. He managed to taste the dishes
                        as they were served, and to carve without a mishap of any kind, but in the matter of
                        conversation he was certainly not brilliant, though he had the approaching war for his theme.
                    After the old English custom which survived in Virginia, the winea rich old Madeirawas not served
                        until the dessert was removed. Then it came on with the cigars. The ladies sipped a single glass
                        each, and rose, whereupon the young man gallantly held open the great door, bowing as the
                        womankind took their departure.
                    When they had gone, there being no gentleman present except himself, young Pegram was left alone
                        with the wine, the cigars, a single wax candle for cigar-lighting purposes,and Henry. Henry was
                        the perfectly trained butler of the establishment, a butler taught from childhood, by his late
                        master, to comport himself always with the dignity of a diplomat who has dined. He stood bolt
                        upright behind the young man's chair, eager to anticipate every want, and anticipating
                        them all without a false movement or any suggestion  of hurry.
                        Henry had presided as butler in his late master's establishment when that master kept
                        "open house" as a distinguished senator in Washington, and it was the
                        serving-man's boast that he "knew what a gentleman wants and when he wants
                        it."
                    But Henry's very propriety became irksome to Baillie Pegram presently. It reminded him
                        of his own lack of any ease except a forcibly assumed one. "Henry feels himself in his
                        proper place," the young man reflected. "I do not."
                    It was not the young man's habit to take more than a glass or two of wine after dinner,
                        and on this occasion he had no relish even for that small allowance. Yet he sat with it for a
                        sufficient time to show proper respect for the hospitality of the house. He held his glass up
                        between him and the stained-glass windows, and went through all the motions of watching the play
                        of colours through the amber liquid, quite as if his relish for it had been that of a confirmed
                            bon vivant. Finally he lighted a fresh cigar, and said to Henry:
                        "It is quite warm. I think I'll finish my cigar out among the shrubbery.
                        Please  say to the ladies that I'll join them within half
                        an hour."
                    He was not destined, however, to fulfil this promise. For, as he passed out into the shrubbery,
                        he encountered Miss Agatha by an accident which that young lady had in all probability arranged
                        with the utmost care, as women do sometimes. She very much wanted speech with Baillie.
                    "I want to thank you, Mr. Pegram," she said, eagerly, "for not making
                        a scene. It was very hard on youthe situation, I meanand you have spared me at every point.
                        Perhaps you had better take your leave now as quickly as you can."
                    But the young man's courage had completely come back to him, with something of the
                        daredevil spirit added to it: as the soldier beset, sometimes comes to relish danger for its own
                        sake, and deliberately invites more of it, so Baillie Pegram, knowing perfectly that he had
                        completely outraged the proprieties, as The Oaks ladies interpreted them, was minded to outrage
                        them still further. Having braved the situation to this point, he was determined to brave it out
                             to the endwhatever the end might be. So to the girl's
                        suggestion, he answered:
                    "But the day is not over yet, and the piazzas of The Oaks fortunately include one with a
                        western aspect. Let us sit there and enjoy the sunset. We'll join the ladies
                        later."
                    The girl consented, willingly enough. She was already in revolt, for one thing, and she knew that
                        her aunts would not venture again to censure her severely, after what had happened.
                    "But you must not misunderstand me, Mr. Pegram," she said, as the two seated
                        themselves in the great oaken chairs fabricated on the plantation during colonial
                        times." I have declared my independence so far as to insist upon my right to treat you
                        with courtesy upon occasion. But you must not suppose that I have forgotten the gulf that lies
                        between us, and especially you must not interpret my attitude to mean that I am disloyal to the
                        memory of my poor father."
                    "I quite understand," he answered, meditatively and sadly. "You and I
                        are privileged, by your good pleasure, to treat each other with formal courtesy, but I must not
                        in any way presume upon that privilege beyond its intention."
                    
                    The girl sat silent, looking wistfully out into the glow that had followed the sunset. Finally
                        she said:
                    "I suppose that is it. It is a hard situation to deal withfor me."
                    "And for me," the youth replied.
                    "Yes, for you, too, I suppose. But neither of us is responsible. We must recognise
                        conditions and do the best we can."
                    "I quite understand. You give me leave hereafter to behave like a gentleman toward you,
                        whenever circumstances shall happen to force any sort of intercourse upon us; but beyond that
                        you remind me that there is war between your house and mine, and between me and thee. It is not
                        a treaty of peace that you offer, or even a protocol looking to peace; it is only an amenity of
                        war, like a cartel for the exchange of prisoners, or a temporary truce, for the burial of the
                        dead who have fallen between the lines."
                    This statement of the case did not at all satisfy the bewildered girl's mind, but there
                        was no opportunity to correct it, for at that moment a maid came with a formally polite message
                        to the effect that if Mr. Pegram and Miss Ronald had 
                        quite finished their conversation in the porch, the Misses Ronald and Miss
                        Blair were waiting to receive them in the library.
                    "After all," Agatha thought, afterward, "I do not know that I could
                        have bettered his definition of the situation. But it isn't one that I like."
                    All skies seemed serene as the two miscreants entered the library, Baillie making all that was
                        necessary of apology by saying:
                    "Pardon us, good ladies, I pray you. We have lingered too long in the porch, but you
                        will graciously attribute our fault to the unusual beauty of the sunset. Sunsets mean so much,
                        you know. They suggest the end of pleasant things and the coming of a darkness to which we do
                        not know the dawn. I cannot help thinking that the sunset that Miss Ronald and I have been
                        witnessing is typical. Our beautiful Virginia life is at its sunset. A night-time of war and
                        suffering is approaching, and we cannot know of the day that must follow."
                    At this point Miss Blair relieved the situation by giving the conversation a thoroughly practical
                        and commonplace turn.
                    
                    "Why, Mr. Pegram," she exclaimed," you surely do not doubt the outcome
                        of the war? You confidently expect the triumph of our righteous cause?"
                    "Well, I hope for it. But the size and the number of the guns will have something to do
                        with the result, and our enemies can put four or five men and four or five guns to our one in
                        the field. It is a dark night that must follow our sunset. We can only do our best, and leave
                        the result to God. Ladies, I bid you good night, and good-bye; for I fear I shall see none of
                        you again soon. I shall be off soldiering almost at once."
                
                
                
                    VI
                    NEXT MORNING
                    
                    IF Baillie Pegram imagined that by his parting words he had silenced the batteries of The Oaks
                        ladies, he totally misjudged his enemy. For in spite of his intimation of intent not to dine at
                        The Oaks again, there came to him at breakfast the next morning a little note in which the good
                        ladies calmly reasserted their privilege of deciding such matters for themselves quite
                        irrespective of the wishes or purposes of young persons of whatever sex or degree.
                    "The Misses Ronald present their respectful compliments to Mr. Baillie Pegram,"
                        the note ran, "and beg to say that in view of the terribly disturbed condition of the
                        times, it is their purpose presently to close The Oaks for a season, so far at least as the
                        entertainment of guests is concerned. They may perhaps go upon a journey. As to that,  their plans are as yet unformed, but at any rate it is their
                        purpose not to entertain again for the present, except by special invitation to their nearest
                        intimates. They feel it incumbent upon them to give timely notice of this alteration in the
                        customs of their house to those valued friends who, like Mr. Pegram, have been accustomed to
                        dine at The Oaks at stated intervals.
                    "With sincere good wishes for Mr. Pegram's safety and good fortune in that
                        soldierly career to which he feels himself summoned by the circumstances of the time, and in
                        full confidence that he is destined to win for himself the laurels that befit one of his
                        distinguished ancestry, The Oaks ladies remain,
                    "Most respectfully,
                    "SARAH RONALD,
                         "JANE RONALD."
                    Having read the joint note, Baillie passed it to his friend at the other end of the
                        breakfast-table, saying: "Read that, old fellow, and see what has come of following
                        your madcap advice."
                    Pollard carefully read the letter through, and then asked:
                    
                    "Well, what of it?"
                    "Why, don't you see, by going to The Oaks yesterday as you advised,
                        I've managed to get myself forbidden the house."
                    "Well, what of that? I don't understand that you have any passionate desire to
                        dine with the estimable old ladies every month, and I think you told me last night, when I was
                        trying to get a nap, that Miss Agatha is leaving this morning."
                    "Yes, of course. But can't you understand that it's a disagreeable and
                        humiliating thing thus to be forbidden the house, just as if I were guilty of some
                        misconduct"
                    "O, yes, I understand perfectly. It is exceedingly inconvenient to find yourself at odds
                        with the elderly female relatives of a young gentlewoman to whom you would very much like to pay
                        your addresses. But in this case, I do not see that it complicates matters very much, as you
                        told me yourself yesterday that the case is hopelessthat there is already an impassable barrier
                        between yourself and Miss Agatha Ronald, so what difference does it make? When you've a
                        ten-rail staked and ridered fence in front of you, a rail more or less doesn't signify
                        much. I'll tell you, Baillie,  you must do as
                        I've done. In view of the chances of war, which are apt to worry one who thinks much
                        about them, I have decided to accept and believe the fatalistic philosophy, which teaches that
                        what is to be will be, even if it never happens."
                    Pegram sat silent for a while before answering. Then he said:
                    "Be serious for a little if you can, Pollard, I want to talk with you. You were right
                        after all in what you said to me yesterday, though at the time I regarded it as unutterable
                        nonsense. It seems absurd, under the circumstances, but the fact is thatwell, that Agatha Ronald
                        has somehow come to mean more to me than any other woman ever did or ever will. Perhaps I
                        shouldn't have found out the fact for a long time to come, if it hadn't been
                        for what you said to me yesterday. But I've found it out now, and I know all that it
                        means to me. It means that I've made a fool of myself, and I must set to work to repair
                        the mistake. Fortunately, the way is open, and that is what I want to say to you. I'm
                        going to leave you to-day. I'm going to Richmond to volunteer in one of the batteries
                        there that are  already organised, armed, and equipped, and nearly
                        ready for the field. They'll be the first sent to the front, and I intend to put myself
                        at the front just as speedily as I can."
                    "But why not do better than that for yourself?" asked Pollard.
                    "What better is there that I can do?"
                    "Why not raise a battery of your own, and command it? You know Governor Letcher, and you
                        have influence in plenty. You can have a captain's commission for the asking."
                    "I suppose I might. But I am strongly impressed with the fact that there are altogether
                        too many men in like predicamenttoo many men whose position and influence entitle them to expect
                        commissions while, like me, they know nothing whatever of the military art. We need some
                        privates in this war, and fortunately a good many of ns are willing to serve as such. I am, for
                        one. The number of gentlemen in Virginia whose position is as good as my own is quite great
                        enough to officer any army in Europe, and our ignorance of military affairs is great enough to
                        wreck the best army that was ever organised. I'll not add mine to the list.
                        I'll go in as a private  soldier. If I am ever fit to
                        command, it will be time enough then for me to ask for a commission. I'm going to
                        volunteer in the ranks."
                    "So am I," answered Pollard.
                    "What? You? When?"
                    "Yes. Me. Yesterday."
                    "Well, go on. Don't be provoking. Tell me all about it. When did you do it, and
                        how, and why? For a generally agreeable young man, I must say, Marshall, you can make of
                        yourself about as disagreeable a person as I ever encountered. Come! Tell me!"
                    Pollard smiled and meditated, as if planning the order of his utterance. At last he said:
                    "There isn't much to tell, and I don't know just where to begin. But
                        afterwell, after you rode away to The Oaks yesterday, I got to thinking and wondering what I
                        should do with myself now that your companionship was lost to me. There is nobody about for me
                        to fall in love with, and after all, there is a limit to the entertainment to be got out of old
                        T. Gordon and his Tacitus. You see, girls never behave properly toward me. There isn't
                        one of them in ten counties who would ever think of breaking her 
                        horse's leg in a bridge just in time to let me come to her rescue. Besides, I should
                        probably be on foot, with no mare to lend the distressed damsel, and, altogether, you
                        see"
                    "Will you stop your nonsense, or will you not?" asked Baillie, with impatience.
                        "Tell me what you did."
                    "Well, I got Sam to bring me the least objectionable of your abominably jolting
                        saddle-horsesthe bay with three white feet and a blaze on the faceand I managed to keep a little
                        breath in my body while riding over to the Court-house. It was my purpose to go to Richmond, and
                        I asked the old ticket agent to send me, but he obstinately refused. He said there were only two
                        trains a day, one at noon and one at midnight. I remonstrated with him, but it was of no use. I
                        explained to him that the raison d'tre of a railroadI translated the
                        French to himwas to carry people to whatever place they wished to go to, and at such hours as
                        might suit their convenience. I told him it was an abominable outrage that with a railroad lying
                        there unused, he would not send a gentleman to Richmond without making him wait for eight or ten
                             hours for the convenience of people whom he knew nothing
                        about. He looked at me rather curiously when I urged that consideration upon him. I think it
                        rather staggered him, but he persisted in his obstinate refusal to send me to Richmond without
                        further delay. He even suggested that I might go somewhere else, but I interpreted that as
                        meaningless profanity, and gently explained to him that I did not wish to go to the place he had
                        mentioned. Then he told me he had no train, and I asked him why he suffered himself to have no
                        train, when a gentleman wanted one and was willing to pay for it."
                    "Will you stop your nonsense, and tell me what happened?"
                        interrupted Baillie.
                    Pollard smiled, and continued:
                    "Now, that question of yours reassures me as to the sanity of the station agent. It is
                        closely similar to the question he asked, only, by reason of his lack of cultivation, he
                        interrupted the even and orderly flow of his English with many objurgative and even violent
                        terms, such as we do not employ in ordinary converse, but such as stablemen and innkeepers seem
                        to like to use.
                    "Despairing of my efforts to secure reasonable  public
                        service at the hands of the railroad, I looked about me, and presently encountered Captain
                        Skinner. You know him, of courselives at the Kennels, or some such placekeeps a lot of dogs, and
                        drinks a good deal more whiskey than would be good for most men. But he is a West Pointer, you
                        know, and served for a considerable time in the Indian wars. He was at Chapultepec, too, I
                        think. At any rate, he mentioned the fact in connection with his missing arm. He told me he was
                        going to raise a battery in the purlieus of Richmond. He said he didn't want a company
                        of young bloods, but one of soldiers. He proposes to enlist wharf-rats down at
                        Rockett's, and ruffians, and especially jailbirds. 'There are more than a
                        hundred as good men as ever smelt gunpowder or stopped a bullet in its career,' he
                        said, 'now languishing in the Richmond jails and the Virginia State Penitentiary.
                        Governor Letcher promises me that he will pardon all of them who choose to enlist with me, and
                        I'm going to look them over. Those that are fit to make soldiers of, I'll
                        enlist, and after a week or two of drilling I'll have a battery ready for the
                        field.'
                    
                    "His idea pleased me, so I told him to put me down as the first man on his list. He
                        objected at first. You see, I've had no experience as a ruffian, and I never served a
                        term in jail in my life, but I convinced him that I would make a good cannonier, and he enrolled
                        me. I am to report to him at Rockett's by the day after to-morrow."
                    To Baillie's remonstrances and pleadings that his friend should choose a company of
                        gentlemen in which to serve, Marshall turned a deaf ear.
                    "When I become a soldier," he said, "and put myself under another
                        man's command, I want that other man to be one who knows something about the business.
                        Captain Skinner knows what to do with a gun and a gunner, and I've a pretty
                        well-defined notion that most of our coming captains have all that yet to learn, and
                        besideswell, I've given you reasons enough."
                    "Besides what, Marshall? What were you going to say?"
                    "O, nothing that you would understand or sympathise with. It's only that
                        somehow I don't want to be in a company of gentlemen turned soldiers, where I should be
                        sure to meet our kind of people on terms of social equality now and  then. As a common soldier, I should find it rather embarrassing at a military ball to have a
                        lady put me on her dancing-list while scornfully refusing a like favour perhaps to the officer
                        who must assign me to guard-duty next morning."
                    In thus answering, Marshall Pollard equivocated somewhat. He made no mention of the little
                        jessamine and honeysuckle incident, but perhaps there was something behind that which helped to
                        determine his course in choosing Captain Skinner's company for his own, thus placing
                        himself among men wholly without the pale of that society in which sprigs of jessamine are given
                        and cherished, and now and then thrown out of the window. At any rate, the young man seemed
                        disposed to change the course of the conversation.
                    "Now, Baillie," he said, "you've catechised me quite enough
                        for one morning. Tell me about yourself. Why are you going off to Richmond to enlist in one of
                        the batteries there, instead of joining your neighbours and friends here in organising one or
                        other of the companies they are forming?"
                    "For the simple reason that I want to be in  the middle of
                        this mix as soon as possible. Those Richmond batteries are already fit to take the field, and
                        they'll be hurling shells at the enemy and dodging shells on their own account before
                        these companies here learn which way a sergeant's chevrons should point. I want to get
                        to the front among the first, that's all."
                    Sending for Sam, he bade that worthy pack a small saddle valise for him with a few belongings,
                        and when, an hour later, the two friends were ready for their departure, Sam presented himself,
                        clad in his best, and carrying a multitudinous collection of skillets, kettles, and frying-pans,
                        with other and less soldierly belongings. When asked by his master, "What does this
                        mean?" Sam answered, in seeming astonishment at the question:
                    "Why, Mas' Baillie, you'se a-gwine to de wah, an' of
                        co'se Sam's a-gwine along to take k'yar o' you."
                    "Of course Sam is going to do no such thing," answered the young man.
                        "Go and put away your pots and pans."
                    "But, Mas' Baillie." remonstrated the negro boy, in a nearly tearful
                        voice, "who's a-gwine  to take k'yar
                        o' you ef Sam ain't thar? Whose a-gwine to clean yer boots, an' bresh
                        yer clo'se, an' cook yer victuals, an' all that?"
                    The master was touched by the boy's devotion, though he justly suspected that a yearning
                        for adventure had quite as much to do with Sam's wish to "go to de
                        wah," as his desire to be of service to a kindly master.
                    "But, Sam," he said, "a common soldier doesn't carry his
                        personal servant with him. If we did that, there wouldn't be enough"
                    "A common soldier!" Sam broke in, exercising that privilege of interrupting his
                        master's speech which the personal servants of Virginians always claimed for their own.
                        "A common soldier! Who says Mas' Baillie'll be a common soldier? De
                        mastah of Warlock ain't a common nuffin'. He's a Pegram, he is,
                        an' de Pegrams ain't never been common yit, an' dey ain't
                        a-gwine to be."
                    "But, Sam," argued his master, "you see we're all going to
                        war. We can't carry our servants with us any more than we can carry our feather beds or
                        our foot-tubs. We must do things for ourselves, now."
                    
                    "But who's a-gwine to cook your victuals, Mas' Baillie?"
                    "I reckon I'll have to do that for myself," answered the master.
                    "What? You? Mas' Baillie Pegram a-gittin' down on his knees in de mud
                        an' a-smuttin' up of his han's an' his face, an'
                        a-wrastlin' with pots an' kittles? Well, I'd jes' like to
                        see you a-doin' of that!"
                    Baillie was disposed to amuse himself with the boy; so he said:
                    "But your mammy says you don't know how to cook, Sam, and that you
                        don't seem to know how to learn."
                    This staggered Sam for an instant, but he promptly rose to the emergency.
                    "I kin 'splain all dat, Mas' Baillie. You see, I'se done been
                        a-foolin' o' mammy. Mammy, she's de head cook at Warlock;
                        she's a-gittin' old, an' de rheumatiz an' de laziness is
                        a-gittin' into her bones. So she's done tried to make Sam take things offen
                        her shoulders. But I'se done see de situation. I'se watched mammy so long dat
                        I kin cook anything from a Brunswick stew to an omelette sufferin', jes' as
                        good as mammy  kin. But it 'ud never
                        'a' done to let her know that, else she'd 'a'
                        shouldered the whole thing onter Sam. So when she done set me to watch somethin'
                        she's a-cookin' while she's busy with somethin' else, I
                        jes' had to let it spile some way, in self-defence. Of co'se, I had to run
                        out'n de kitchen after that, a-dodgin' o' de pots an'
                        kittles mammy throwed at my headan' sometimes I didn't dodge quick enough,
                        eitherbut de result was de same. Mammy was sure I couldn't cook, an'
                        dat's what she done tole you, Mas' Baillie. But I kin cook, sho'.
                        An' please, Mas' Baillie, you'll let me go 'long wid
                        you?"
                    The time was growing short now, and Baillie sent the boy away, saying:
                    "If I ever get to be an officer, Sam, and am allowed a servant, I'll send for
                        you. But you'd better learn all you can about cooking while we're waiting for
                        that."
                    Sam was disconsolate. He went to the detached kitchen buildingfor no Virginian ever suffered
                        cooking to be carried on within fifty feet of his dwellingand sat down and buried his face in
                        his hands and rocked himself backward and forward, moaning dismally.
                    
                    "I'd jes' like to know," he muttered to the pickaninnies,
                        standing by in their simple costume of long shirts and nothing else, "I'd
                        jes' like to know what's a-gwine to become o' dis here Warlock
                        plantation an' dese here niggas, now dat Mas' Baillie's done gone off
                        to git hisself killed in de wah. De chinch-bug is a-gwine to eat de wheat dis summer
                        sho'. De watermillions is a-gwine to run all to vines. De 'bacca worms
                        an' de grasshoppas is a-gwine to chew up all de terbacca befo' men gits a
                        chawnce at it. De crows is a-gwine to pull up all de cawnan' dey might as well, too,
                        fer ef dey didn't, it 'ud wither in de rows. Don't yer
                        understan', you stupid little niggas, you'se a-gwine to stawve to death, you
                        is, an' you better believe it. Mas' Baillie's done gone to git
                        hisself killed, I tells you, an' you'se got a mighty short time till yer
                        stomicks gits empty an' shet up an' crampy like. You'se a-gwine to
                        stawve to death, sho', an' it'll hurt wus'n as ef
                        you'd a-swallered a quart o' black cherries 'thout
                        swallerin' none o' de seeds fer safety."
                    By this time all the young negroes were wailing bitterly, and they would not be comforted  until Sam's mammy set out a kettle of pot-liquor, and
                        gave them pones of ash-cake to crumble into it. After that, Sam's prophecies of evil
                        departed from their inconstant minds. But Sam did not recover so quickly. For days afterward he
                        moped in melancholy, occasionally stretching his big eyes to their utmost while he solemnly
                        delivered some dismal prophecy of evil to come.
                
                
                
                    VII
                    A FAREWELL AT THE GATE
                    
                    WHEN the two friends reached the outer gates of Warlock plantation on their way to the
                        Court-house, Marshall, to whose queer ways his friend was thoroughly well used called a halt.
                    "Let us dismount," he said," and consider what we are doing."
                    When they had seated themselves upon the carpet of pine-needles, the meditative youth resumed:
                    "Does it occur to you, Baillie," he asked, "that when you and I pass
                        through yonder gate, we shall leave behind us for ever the most enjoyable life that it ever fell
                        to the lot of human beings to lead? Do you realise that we may never either of us come back
                        through that gate again, and that if we do, it will only be to find all things changed? We are
                        at the end of a chapter. The next chapter will be by no means like unto it."
                    
                    "I confess I don't quite understand," answered the less meditative
                        one.
                    "Well, this easy-going, delightful Virginian life of ours has no counterpart anywhere on
                        this continent or elsewhere in the world, and we have decided to put an end to it. For this war
                        is going to be a very serious thing to us Virginians. Virginia is destined to be the
                        battle-field. Greater armies than have ever before been dreamed of on this continent are going
                        to trample over her fields, and meet in dreadful conflict on the margins of her watercourses.
                        Her homes are going to be desolated, her fields laid waste, her substance utterly exhausted, and
                        her people reduced to poverty in a cause that is not her own, and in behalf of which she
                        unselfishly risks all for the sake of an abstraction, and in defence of a right on the part of
                        other States which Virginia herself had seen no occasion to assert in her own defence. Whatever
                        else happens in this war, all that is characteristic in Virginian life, all that is peculiar to
                        it, all that lends loveliness to it, must be sacrificed on the altar of duty.
                    "I don't at all know how the change is to come about, or what new things are
                        destined to replace  the old; but I see clearly that the old must
                        give way to something new. Perhaps, after all, that is best. Ours has been a beautiful life, and
                        a peculiarly picturesque one, but it is not in tune with this modern industrial world. It has
                        its roots in the past, and the past cannot endure. We have thus far been able to go on living in
                        an ideal world, but the real world has been more and more asserting itself, and even if no war
                        were coming on to upset things, things must be upset. Railroads and telegraphs have come to us
                        rather in spite of our will than by reason of it. We have realised their convenience in a
                        fashion, but they are still foreign and antagonistic to our ideas. The older gentlemen among us
                        still prefer to make long journeys on horseback rather than go by rail, while very many of them
                        insist resolutely upon sending their womankind always in private carriages, even when they go
                        long distances to the mountains for the summer.
                    "We are living in the past and fighting off the present, but the present will
                        successfully assert itself in the end. You have yourself rejected all the overtures of the
                        speculators who have wanted  to open coal mines on Warlock
                        plantation, but the time will come when you'll be glad to be made richer than any
                        Pegram ever dreamed of being by the sinking of mine shafts among your lawn trees.
                    "If you are lucky enough to survive this war, you'll see a new labour system
                        established, and learn to regard the men who work for you, not as your dependents, for whom you
                        are responsible, and for whose welfare you feel a sympathetic concern, but as so many
                        'employees,' to be dealt with through a trades union, and kept down to the
                        lowest scale of wages consistent with their living and working.
                    "I am not advocating the new, or condemning the old. I am only pointing out the fact
                        that the new is surely destined to triumph over the old, and replace it.
                    "The negroes in Virginia are beyond question the best paid, the best fed, the best
                        housed, and altogether the best cared for labouring population on earth. They are secure in
                        childhood and in old age and in illness, as no other labouring people on earth are. They are
                        happy, and in important ways they are even freer than any  other
                        labouring class ever was. But they are slaves, and modern thought insists that they would be
                        better off as free men, even though freedom should bring to them a loss of happiness and a loss
                        of that well-nigh limitless liberty which they enjoy as bondsmen, under care of kindly masters.
                    "Mind you, Baillie, I am not arguing for or against the claims of modern thought. I am
                        only pointing out the fact that it is resistless, and will have its way. All history teaches
                        that. Even chivalry, armed as it was from head to heel, and limitlessly courageous as it was,
                        could not hold its own against commercialism, when commercialism became dominant as the thought
                        that represented the aspirations of men. Not even prejudice or sentiment can prevail against
                        progress.
                    "John Ruskin is even now protesting in the name of sthetics against the scarring of
                        England with railroad embankments, and the pollution of England's air with the
                        vomitings of unsightly factory chimneys; but neither the extension of the British railway system
                        nor the multiplication of British factories halts because of his protests.
                    "Henry Clay was never so eloquent as when  pleading
                        against protective tariffs as something that threatened this country with a system like that of
                        Manchester, in which men were divided into mill owners and mill operatives, with antagonistic
                        interests; yet Henry Clay was forced by the conditions of his time to become the apostle of
                        industrial protection by tariff legislation.
                    "My thesis is that no man and no people can for long stand in the way of what the
                        Germans call the Zeitgeistthe spirit of the age. Neither, I think, can any
                        people stand apart from that spirit and let it pass them by. That is what we Virginians have
                        been trying to do. The time has come when we are going out to fight the zeitgeist, and the zeitgeist is going to conquer us."
                    "You expect the South to fail in the war, then?" asked Baillie.
                    "I don't know. We may fail or we may win. But in either case the old rgime in
                        the Old Dominion will be at an end when the war is over. Virginia will become a modern State,
                        whatever else happens, and the old life in which you and I were brought up will become a thing
                        of the past, a matter of history, the memory of which  the
                        novelists may love to recall, but the conditions of which can never again be established.
                    "Fortunately, none of these things needs trouble us. They make no difference whatever in
                        our personal duty. Virginia has proclaimed her withdrawal from the Union, under the declared
                        purpose of the Union to make war upon her for doing so. It is for us to fight in
                        Virginia's cause as manfully as we can, leaving God, or the Fates, or whatever else it
                        is that presides over human affairs, to take care of the result.
                    "Come! The time is passing; we must hurry in order to catch that train which represents
                        the modern progress that is destined to ride over us and crush us. Good-bye, old Virginia life!
                        God bless you for a good old life! May we live as worthily in the new, if we survive to see the
                        new!"
                
                
                
                    VIII
                    A RED FEATHER
                    
                    THE sun shone with the fervent heat of noonday in mid-July, as the long line of cannon and
                        caissons came lumbering down the incline of the roadway that leads from the mountainside into
                        the little railway village. The breath of the guns was still offensively sulphurous, for there
                        had been no time in which to cleanse them since their work of yesterday. The officers and
                        non-commissioned officers on their horses, and the cannoniers who rode upon the
                        ammunition-chests, were powder-grimed and dustyfor there had been no opportunity on this hurried
                        march for those ablutions that all soldiers so eagerly delight in.
                    There were no shouted commands given, for this battery had been three times under fire, and one
                        of the first things an officer learns in real war is not to shout his orders except when the  din of battle renders shouting necessary. Three months ago on
                        parade the captain of this battery would have bellowed, "Forward into
                        battery!" by way of impressing his importance upon the lookers-on. Now that he had
                        learned to be in earnest, he merely turned to his bugler, and said, as if in a parlour,
                        "Forward into battery, then halt."
                    A little musical snatch on the bugle did the rest, and with the precision of a piece of
                        mechanism, the guns were moved into place, each with its caissons at a fixed distance in the
                        rear, and the command, "At ease," was followed by a stable-call, in obedience
                        to which the drivers set to work to feed and groom their horses. For while men may be allowed to
                        go grimed and dirty on campaign, the horses at least must be curried and rubbed and sponged into
                        perfect health and comfort whenever there is opportunity.
                    Here at the little railway station were assembled all the womankind from a dozen miles round
                        about. These had come to look upon the Army of the Shenandoah, with which Johnston, after
                        several days of skirmishing in the valley with the Federals under Patterson, was hurrying onward
                             to Manassas to join Beauregard there, in the battle which was
                        so obviously at hand.
                    The women of every degree had come, not merely to see the spectacle of war, but to cheer the
                        soldiers with smiles and words of encouragement, and still more to minister in what ways they
                        could to their needs. The maids and matrons thus assembled were gaily clad, for war had not yet
                        robbed them of the wherewithal to deck themselves as gaily as the lilies do. They were full of
                        high confidence and ardent hope, for war had not yet brought to them, and for many moons to come
                        was not destined to bring to them, the realisation that defeat and disaster are sometimes a part
                        of the bravest soldiers' fortune. These women believed absolutely and unquestioningly
                        in the righteousness of the Southern cause, and they had not yet read the history of Poland, and
                        La Vende, and the Huguenots with discretion enough to doubt that victory always in the end
                        crowns the struggles of those who stand for the right.
                    How much of disappointment and suffering this curiously perverse reading of history has wrought,
                        to be sure! And how confidently, in  every case, the men and women
                        on either side of a war commend their cause to Heaven, in full confidence that God, in his
                        justice, cannot fail to give victory to the right, and cannot fail to understand that they are
                        right and their enemies hopelessly wrong. Probably every educated woman among those who were
                        assembled at the little village on that twentieth day of July, 1861, had read Motley's
                        histories; every one of them knew the story of Poland and of Ireland and of La Vende and the
                        Camisards; but they still believed that God and not the guns decides the outcome of battles.
                    In one article of their faith at least they were absolutely right. They believed in the courage,
                        the devotion, the unflinching prowess of the men who had enlisted to fight for their cause. They
                        had come now, at the approach of a first great battle, to bid these men Godspeed. Four years
                        later, when war had well-nigh worn out the gallant Army of Northern Virginia, and when the very
                        hope of ultimate victory, over enormously superior numbers and against incalculably superior
                        resources, was scarcely more than an impulse of faith-inspired insanity, these women of the
                        South  were still present and helpful wherever their presence
                        could cheer, and wherever their help was needed.
                    To-day, they looked to the morrow for a victory that should make an end of the war. The victory
                        came with a startling completeness wholly unmatched in all the history of battles. But the end
                        did not come, and the war wore itself out, through four long years of brilliant achievement,
                        alternated with terrible disaster. At Petersburg these women did not look to the morrow at all,
                        but their courage was the same, their cheer the same, their devotion the same. It was still
                        their chosen task to encourage the little remnant of an army which still held the defensive
                        works with a line stretched out to attenuation. To the very endand even after the endthese brave
                        women faltered not nor failed.
                    When the war began, the women of the South made a gala-day of every day when soldiers were in
                        sight. As the war neared its calamitous end, all days were to them days of mourning and of
                        always willing self-sacrifice.
                    On that twentieth day of July, 1861, the women gathered together were full of high hope and  confidence. Some were perched upon goods boxes, arranged to serve
                        as seats. Some were tripping about on foot, gliding hither and thither in gladness, as girls do
                        in a dance, simply because their nerves were tuned to a high pitch, and their sympathetic feet
                        refused to be still. But for the most part they sat in their carriages, with the tops thrown
                        back in defiance of the fervour of the sun. Defiance was in the air, indeed, and the troops on
                        their way to the battlefield were not more resolute in their determination to do and to dare,
                        than were the dames and damsels there gathered together in their purpose to disregard sunshine
                        and circumstance, while bestowing their smiles upon these men, their heroes.
                    After the fashion of the time among volunteers who were presently to become war-worn into
                        veterans, but who were never to be reduced to the condition of hireling regulars, the men were
                        free, as soon as a halt was called, to move about among the feminine throng, greeting their
                        acquaintances when they had any, and being cheerily greeted by strangers, in utter disregard of
                        those conventions with which womanhood elsewhere  than in Virginia
                        surrounds itself. There womanhood had always felt itself free, because it had always felt itself
                        under the protection of all there was of manhood in the land. No woman in that time and country
                        was ever in danger of affront, for the reason that no man dared affront her, lest he encounter
                        vengeance, swift, sure, and relentless, at the hands of the first other man who might hear of
                        the circumstance. No Virginian girl of that time had her mind directed to evil things by the
                        suggestion of chaperonage; and no Virginia gentleman was subjected to insulting imputation by
                        the refusal of a woman's guardians to entrust her protection against himself, as
                        against all others, to his chivalry. So far was the point of honour pressed in such matters,
                        that no man was free even to make the most deferential proposal of marriage to any woman while
                        she was actually or technically under his charge and protection. To do that, it was held, was to
                        place the woman in an embarrassing position, to subject her to the necessity of accepting the
                        offer on the one hand, or of declining it while yet under obligation to accept escort and
                        protection at the hands of the man making it.
                    
                    Under this rigid code of social intercourse, which granted perfect freedom to all women, and
                        exacted scrupulous respect for such freedom at the hands of all men, the intercourse between
                        gentlemen volunteers and the young women who had come to visit them in camp was even less
                        restrained than that of a drawing-room, in which all are guests of a common host, and all are
                        guaranteed, as it were, by that host's sponsorship of invitation.
                    In all their dealings with the volunteers, the women of Virginia brought common sense to bear in
                        a positively astonishing degree, reinforcing it with abounding good-will and perfect confidence
                        in the manhood of men as their sufficient shield against misinterpretation. And they were
                        entirely right in this. For "battle, murder, and sudden death," would very
                        certainly have been the part of any man in those ranks who should have failed in due respect to
                        this generosity of mind on the part of womanhood. The dignity of womanhood was never so safe as
                        when women thus confidently left its guardianship to the instinctive chivalry of men.
                    For a time after the halt, Baillie Pegram was  too busy to inquire
                        whether or not any friends of his own were among the throng. For something had happened to
                        Baillie Pegram over there in the Valley of the Shenandoah two or three days before. The gun to
                        whose detachment he belonged as a cannonier had been detached and sent to an exposed position on
                        the Martinsburg road. The sergeant in command of it had been killed by a bullet, and the two
                        corporalsthe gunner and the chief of caissonhad been carried to the rear on litters, with
                        bullets in their bodies. There was absolutely nobody in command of the gun, but Baillie Pegram
                        was serving as number one at the piecethat is to say, as the cannonier handling the sponge and
                        rammer. Seeing the badly weakened gun-crew disposed to falter for lack of anybody to command
                        them, and seeing, too, the necessity of continuing the fire, Baillie assumed an authority which
                        did not belong to him in any way.
                    "Stand to the gun, men!" he cried. "If any man flunks till this job is
                        done, I'll brain him with my rammer-head, orders or no orders."
                    A moment later the faltering of number three called upon him for the execution of his threat, 
                        
                            "'If any man flunksI'll brain
                                    him'"
                            
                        
                         and he instantly did what he had said he would do, felling the
                        man to the grass, stunned for the time by a quick blow with the iron-bound rammer-head. Then he
                        called upon number five to take the recreant's place, and that gun continued its work
                        until the hot little action was over.
                    A slouchy-looking personage had been standing by all the while. At the end of it all he demanded
                        Baillie Pegram's name and rank, and the name of his battery. That evening Baillie
                        Pegram's captain sent for him, and said:
                    "I am going to make you my sergeant-major. I have General Jackson's request to
                        recognise your good conduct under his eye to-day. Even without his suggestion I should wish to
                        have you with me as my staff sergeant. I have kept that post open until now, in order that I
                        might choose the best man for it."
                    It should be explained that the rank of sergeant-major is the very highest non-commissioned rank
                        known to military life. Ordinarily, the sergeant-major is a regimental non-commissioned officer.
                        But following the French system, the Confederate regulations allowed every battery of
                        field-artillery a sergeant-major, if its captain so  desired. He
                        outranked all other non-commissioned officers, and usually exercised a lieutenant's
                        command in battlealways if any commissioned officer were absent or disabled.
                    Thus it came about that Sergeant-Major Baillie Pegram was too busy on that morning to look up
                        acquaintances among the spectators gathered there. He had orders to execute, and details of many
                        kinds to look after, including the making out of that morning report which every company in the
                        service must daily render, and upon which the commanding general must rely for information as to
                        the exact number of fighting men he has available for duty.
                    Baillie had just completed this task, when some one brought him news that a lady in a carriage
                        near by wished to speak with him. Having nothing now to do, he responded to the call, and found
                        Agatha Ronald awaiting him. She sat in her carriage alone. In her lap was a work-basket, fully
                        equipped for that mending which these women always came prepared to do when soldiers were
                        passing by. Baillie had no mending to be done, but Agatha bade him remove his jacket and deliver
                        it into her charge.
                    
                    "We've heard what happened in the Valley the other day," she said,
                        "and it is not seemly for a sergeant-major to be on duty without the insignia of his
                        rank. Red is the artillery colour, I believe, and your marks are three chevrons, with three
                        arches connecting them, are they not? Fortunately, I brought a roll of red braid. So let me have
                        your coat, please, and I'll readjust your costume to your rank."
                    Agatha spoke glibly, but it was under manifest constraint. She forced and feigned a lightness of
                        mood which she did not feel, and her manner deceived Baillie Pegram completely, as it was meant
                        to do.
                    "What a fool I am," he thought, "to expect anything else. She was
                        embarrassed when I last saw her, and worried, but that was all on account of her aunts. She is
                        her own mistress to-day, andwell, it is better so. There'll be a fight to-morrow, and
                        that's fortunate."
                    At that point the girl interrupted his meditations by saying, in her assumed tone of lightness,
                        which he so greatly misinterpreted:
                    "I know there is war between your house and mine, but I'm going to give aid and
                        comfort to  the enemy, if it comforts you to have your chevrons
                        properly sewed on."
                    "There can surely be no war between me and thee," he answered, with earnestness
                        in his tone. "At any rate, I do not make war upon a woman, and least of all"
                    "You must not misunderstand, Mr. Pegram," the girl broke in, looking at him
                        earnestly out of her great brown eyes. "I esteem you highly, and I am sorry there is
                        trouble between your house and mine. But I am not disloyal to the memory of my father. You must
                        never think that. It is only that you are a gentleman who has been kind to me, and a soldier
                        whom I honour. But the war endures between your house and mine."
                    Had she slapped him in the face with her open palm, she could not have hurt his pride more
                        deeply. He snatched his jacket from her hand. Only one sleeve was finished, and the needle still
                        hung from it by a thread.
                    "I'll wear it so," he said. "I, at any rate, have no house. I
                        am the last of my race, and let me say to you nowfor I shall never see  you again of my own free willthat the war between our houses will completely end
                        when I receive my discharge from life."
                    Then a new thought struck him.
                    "It is not for Baillie Pegram, the master of Warlock, that you have done this,"
                        touching the braided sleeve, "but for Baillie Pegram, the soldier on his way to battle.
                        Let it be so."
                    Stung by his own words, and controlled by an impulse akin to that which had seized him at the gun
                        two days before, he reached out and plucked from her headgear the red feather that she wore
                        there, saying:
                    "Here! fasten that in my hat. I've a mind to wear it in battle to-morrow. Then
                        I'll send it back to you."
                    What demon of the perverse had prompted him to this action, he did not know, but the girl in her
                        turn seemed subject to its will. Instead of resenting what he had done, she took the feather and
                        with some quickly plied stitches fastened it securely to his already soiled and worn slouch hat.
                        Then handing it back to him, she said:
                    "Good-bye. God grant that when the feather  comes back to
                        me, it be not stained to a deeper red than now."
                    At that moment the bugle blew. Baillie touched his hat, bowed low, and said:
                    "At least you are a courteous enemy."
                    "And a generous one?" she asked.
                    But he did not answer the implied question.
                    When he had gone, Agatha bent low over her work-basket, as if in search of something that she
                        could not find. If two little tear-drops slipped from between her eyelids, nobody caught sight
                        of them.
                    Presently another bugle blew, and as Baillie Pegram's battery took up the march, the
                        guns and men of Captain Skinner took its place. But this time there was no mingling of the men
                        with the spectators. Captain Skinner was too rigid a disciplinarian to permit that, and he knew
                        his ruffians too well. The moment the battery halted, the sergeant of the guard posted his
                        sentries, and the men remained within the battery lines.
                    Seeing this, Agatha tripped from her carriage, and, work-basket in hand, started to enter the
                        battery. She was instantly halted by a sentry, whose  appearance
                        did not tempt her to dispute his authority. She therefore simply said to him, "Call
                        your sergeant of the guard, please." To the sergeant, when he came, she said,
                        "Will you please report to Captain Skinner that Miss Agatha Ronald, of Willoughby, asks
                        leave to enter the battery lines, in order to do such mending for the men as may be
                        needed?"
                    But it was not necessary for the sergeant to deliver his message, for Captain Skinner, way-worn
                        and dusty, at that moment presented himself, and greeted the visitor.
                    "It is very gracious of you," he said, "but, my dear young lady, my
                        men do not belong to that class with which alone you are acquainted. You had better not visit my
                        camp."
                    "Your men are soldiers, sir," she said, "and their needs may be quite
                        as great as those of any others. We are not living in drawing-rooms just now. I crave your
                        permission to enter the battery."
                    The captain touched his hat again, signed to the sentry to let the young woman pass, and then,
                        turning to the sergeant of the guard, said:
                    
                    "Post ten extra sentinels among the guns, with orders to arrest instantly any man who
                        utters an oath or in any other way offends this young lady's ears. See to it yourself
                        that this order is obeyed to the letter."
                
                
                
                    IX
                    THE BIRTH OF WOMANHOOD
                    
                    THE captain's stern commands were not needed, and the extra sentinels had no work to do
                        in restraining the men from offensive speech and conduct. They courteously saluted as Agatha
                        passed them by, and when they learned what her kindly mission was, they hurriedly brought
                        armfuls of saddle-blankets and arranged them as a cushion for her on the top of a limber-chest.
                        Perched up there, she called for their torn garments, and nimbly plied her needle and her
                        scissors for the space of half an hour before observing the sentry who had been posted nearest
                        to her. His slouch hat, indeed, was drawn down over his eyes in such fashion that but little of
                        his face could be seen. But looking up at last in search of further work to do, she recognised
                        the form of Marshall Pollard. Instantly a deep flush overspread her face, and, dismounting from
                        the  limber-chest, she approached and addressed him. He presented
                        arms and said to her in French, so that those about them might not understand:
                    "Pardon me, mademoiselle, but it is forbidden to speak to a sentinel on duty."
                        With that he recovered arms and resumed the monotonous pacing of his beat.
                    As the girl hurried out of the battery, flushed and agitated, she again encountered Captain
                        Skinner.
                    "Has anybody been rude to you, Miss Ronald?" he asked, quickly.
                    "No, Captain Skinner, I have only praise for your men. They have been courteous in the
                        extreme. I predict that they will acquit themselves right gallantly in to-morrow's
                        battle."
                    "O, they're fighters, and will give a good account of themselves if this
                        muddled railroad management lets us get to Manassas before the fighting is over."
                    With thanks to Agatha for her kindness, Captain Skinner bowed low in farewell.
                    Springing into her carriage she gave the command, "Home," and drove away
                        without waiting to see the remainder of the Army of the Shenandoah  as it moved, partly by train, and partly on march, toward the scene of the coming battle.
                    During the homeward ride the girl laughed and chatted with her companions with more than her
                        usual vivacity, quite as if this had been the gladdest of all her gala-days. But the gaiety was
                        forced, and the laughter had a nervous note in it which would have betrayed its impulse to her
                        companions had they been of closely observant habit of mind.
                    But when she reached home Agatha excused herself to her friends, and shut herself in her room.
                        Throwing off her hat, but making no other change in her costume, she stretched herself upon the
                        polished floor, after a habit she had indulged since childhood whenever her spirit was
                        perturbed. For an hour she lay there upon the hard ash boards, with her hands clasped under her
                        head, thinking, thinking, thinking.
                    "God knows," she thought, "I have tried to do my duty, and it is
                        bitterly hard for a woman. In loyalty to my dead father's memory, I have insulted and
                        wounded the only man I could ever have loved, and sent him away from me in anger and
                        wretchedness. And even in doing thateven  in being cruel to him
                        and to myself, I have fallen short of my duty as Agatha Ronald. I have weakly yielded something
                        at least of that proud attitude which it is my duty to my family traditions to maintain. I have
                        recognised the state of war, but I have parleyed with the enemy. And Baillie Pegram is at this
                        hour wearing a plume plucked from my hat and fastened into his by my own hands. God forgive me
                        if I have been disloyal! But is it disloyalty?"
                    With that question echoing in her mind she sat up, staring at the wall, as if trying there to
                        read her answer.
                    "Is it my duty to cherish a feud that is meaningless to meto hate a man who has done no
                        wrong to me or mine, simply because there was a quarrel between our ancestors before either of
                        us was born? I do not know! I do not know! But I must be true to my family, true to my race,
                        true to the traditions in which I have been bred. I have fallen short of that in this case. I
                        must not err again. I must never again forget, even for a moment, that Baillie Pegram is my
                        hereditary enemy."
                    Then she caught herself thinking and almost  wishing that a Federal
                        bullet might end her perplexitythat Baillie Pegram might never live to see her again.
                        "I wonder," she thought, "if that is what Christ meant when he said
                        that one who hates his neighbour is a murderer in his heart. It is all a blind riddle to me.
                        Here have I been brought up a Christian, taught from my infancy that hatred is murder, and
                        taught at the same time that it is my highest duty, as a Ronald, to go on hating all the Pegrams
                        on earth because my father and Baillie Pegram's grandfather quarrelled over something
                        that I know absolutely nothing about!"
                    Presently the girl's mind reverted to the second meeting of that eventful day,her
                        encounter with Marshall Pollard. She wondered why he had enlisted in company with such men as
                        those who constituted Captain Skinner's battery, for even thus early those men had
                        become known as the worst gang of desperadoes imaginable,a band that must be kept day and night
                        under a discipline as rigid and as watchful as that of any State prison, lest they lapse into
                        crimes of violence. She wondered if this meant that the peculiarly gentle-souled Marshall
                        Pollard was trying  to "throw himself away," as
                        she had heard that men disappointed in love sometimes do,that he wished to degrade himself by
                        low associations.
                    "And I am the cause of it all," she mourned. For she knew that Marshall Pollard
                        had loved her with the love of an honest man, and that his life had been darkened, to say the
                        least, by her inability to respond to his devotion. In this case she should have had the
                        consolation of knowing that she had been guilty of no wilful, no conscious wrong, but, in her
                        present mood, she was disposed to flagellate her soul for an imagined offence.
                    "He came to me," she reflected, "loving me from the first. Little
                        idiot that I was, I did not understand. I liked him as a girl may like a boy,for I was only a
                        girl then,and I did not dream that the affection he manifested toward me meant more than that
                        sort of thing on his part. Those things which ought to have revealed to me his state of mind
                        meant nothing more to me then than do the little gallantries and deferences which all men pay to
                        all women. How bitterly he reproached me at the last for having deceived him and led him on with
                        encouragements which I at least had not intended as such. Are all women  born coquettes? Is it our cruel instinct to trifle with the souls of men, as
                        little children love to torture their pets? Have we women no principles, no earnestness, no
                        consciencesexcept afterward, when remorse awakens us? Are we blind, that we do not see, and deaf
                        that we do not hear? Or is it our nature to be cruel, especially to those who love us and offer
                        us the best that there is in their strong natures?
                    "I remember how we stood out there in the grounds, under the jessamine arbour, as the
                        sun went down; and how at last, when I had made him understand, he plucked a sprig of the
                        beautiful, golden flowers from the bunch that I held in my hand, and how I bade him beware, for
                        that the jessamine is poisonous, and how he replied, 'Not more poisonous than it is to
                        love a coquette.'
                    "I remember that he gave me no chance to answer, no opportunity to protest again my
                        innocence of such intent as he had imputed to me in his passionate speech, but turned his back
                        and stalked away, with that stride which I saw again to-day, as he paced his beat. That was two
                        years agoand to-day I have seen him again in such company as he would never have sought but for
                             me,the willing companion of ruffians, the associate of
                        desperadoes, the messmate of thieves!"
                    Agatha was on her feet now, and nervously laying aside one after another of the little fripperies
                        with which she had decorated her person that day. She found herself presently half-unconsciously
                        searching for the gown that she must wear at dinner, though her never-failing maid had laid it
                        out long before her home-coming, that it might be in readiness for her need.
                    A sudden thought came into the suffering girl's mind.
                    "These two men, whose lives are hurt by their love for me, will suffer far less than I
                        shall. They are soldiers as strong to endure as they are strong to dare. They have occupation
                        for all their waking hours. They will be upon the march, in battle, or otherwise actively
                        employed all the time. In remembering more strenuous things they will forget their sorrows and
                        throw aside their griefs as they cast away everything when they go into battle that may in any
                        wise hinder their activity or embarrass their freedom. I must sit still here at Willoughby, and
                        think, and think, and think."
                    
                    Then like a lightning flash another thought came into her mind, and she spoke it aloud:
                    "Why should I be idler than they are? Why should I sit here brooding while they are
                        toiling and fighting for Virginia? I am no more afraid of death or of danger than they are, and
                        while women may not fight, there are other ways in which a woman of courage may render quite as
                        good a service. I'll do it. I'll take the risks. I'll endure the
                        hardships. I'll render my country a service that shall
                        count."
                    With that she rang for her maid and bade her prepare a cold plunge bath. When she descended to
                        dinner, an hour later, Agatha no longer chattered frivolously, as she had done in the carriage,
                        by way of concealing her emotions, but bore herself seriously, as became her in view of the
                        prospect of battle on the morrow.
                    In that hour of agonising thought, Agatha Ronald had ceased to be a girl, and had become an
                        earnest, resolute woman, strong to do, strong to endure, and, if need be, strong to dare. Life
                        had taken on a new meaning in her eyes.
                
                
                
                    X
                    IN ACTION
                    
                    IT was midnight when the battery to which Baillie was attached reached Manassas Junction. The men
                        were weary and half-starved after three days of fighting and marching, and the horses, worn out
                        with dragging the guns and caissons over well-nigh impassable roads, were famishing for water.
                        But an effort to secure water and forage for them failed, and so did an effort to secure water
                        and rations for the men.
                    For on the eve of the first great battle of the war the Southern army was in a state of
                        semi-starvation which grew worse with every hour that brought fresh relays of troops but no new
                        supplies of food. Already had begun that course of extraordinary mismanagement in the supply
                        departments at Richmond which throughout the war kept the Army of Northern Virginia  constantly half-starving or wholly starving, even when, as at
                        Manassas, it lay in the midst of a land of abounding plenty.
                    All the efforts of the generals commanding in the field to remedy this state of things by drawing
                        upon the granaries and smoke-houses round about them for supplies that were in danger of
                        presently falling into the enemy's hands, were thwarted by the stupid obstinacy of a
                        crackbrained commissary-general. It was his inexplicable policy, while the army lay at Manassas
                        with an unused railroad reaching into the rich fields to the west, to forbid the purchase of
                        food and forage there except by his own direct agents, who were required to send it all to
                        Richmond, whence it was transported back again, in such meagre quantities as an already
                        overtaxed single track railroad could manage to carry.
                    Red-tape was choking the army to death from the very beginning, and it continued to do so to the
                        end, in spite of all remonstrances.
                    Even in the matter of water the men at Manassas were restricted to a few pints a day to each man
                        for all uses, simply because the commanding  general was not
                        allowed the simple means of procuring a more adequate supply.
                    This, however, is not the place in which to set forth in detail those facts of perverse stupidity
                        which have been fully stated in official reports, in General Beauregard's memoirs, and
                        in other authoritative works. Such matters are mentioned herein only so far as they affected the
                        events that go to make up the present story.
                    When the Army of the Shenandoah began to add its numbers to that already gathered at Manassas, a
                        way out was found, so far at least as water was concerned, by sending the regiments and
                        batteries, as fast as they came, to positions near Bull Run, some miles in front, where water at
                        least was to be had. Baillie's command, worn out as it was, and suffering from hunger,
                        was hurried through the camp and forced to march some weary miles farther before taking even
                        that small measure of rest and sleep that the rapidly waning night allowed. It was nearly
                        morning when the men and horses were permitted to drink together out of the muddy stream which
                        was presently to mark the fighting-line between two armies in fierce battle for the mastery.
                    
                    It was nearly sunrise when a cannon-shot broke the stillness of a peculiarly brilliant Sunday
                        morning and summoned all the weary men to their posts. A little later the battery with which we
                        are concerned received its orders and was moved into position on the line. Its complement of
                        commissioned officers being short, Sergeant-Major Baillie Pegram had command of the two guns
                        which constituted the left section, and had a lieutenant's work to do.
                    Troops were being hurried hither and thither in what seemed to Baillie's inexperienced
                        eyes a hopeless confusion. But as he watched, he saw order grow out of the chaos,a manifestation
                        of the fact that there was one mind in control, and that every movement, however meaningless it
                        might seem, was part and parcel of a concerted plan, and was intended to have its bearing upon
                        the result.
                    In the meanwhile the occasional report of a rifle had grown into a continuous rattle of musketry
                        on the farther side of the stream, where the skirmishers were hotly at work, their firing being
                        punctuated now and then by the deeper exclamation of a cannon. But the work of the day had  not yet begun in earnest. The main line was not yet engaged, and
                        would not be until the skirmishers should slowly fall back upon it from their position beyond
                        the stream.
                    To men in line of battle this is the most trying of all war's experiences. Then it is
                        that every man questions himself closely as to his ability to endure the strain. Nerves are
                        stretched to a tension that threatens collapse. Speech is difficult even to the bravest men, and
                        the longing to plunge into the fray and be actively engaged is well-nigh irresistible.
                    All this and worse is the experience even of war-seasoned veterans when they must stand or lie
                        still during these endless minutes of waiting, while the skirmishers are engaged in front. What
                        must have been the strain upon the nerves and brains of men, not one of whom had as yet seen a
                        battle, and not one in ten of whom had even received his "baptism of fire" in
                        a skirmish, as the men in Baillie's battery had done during the week before! It is at
                        such a time, and not in the heat of battle, that men's courage is apt to falter, and
                        that discipline alone holds them to their duty.
                    The strain was rather relieved of its intensity  by the shrieking
                        of a Hotchkiss shell, which presently burst in the midst of Baillie Pegram's section
                        and not far from his person. Then came the less noisy but more nerve-racking patter of
                        musket-balls,few and scattering still, as the skirmish-lines were still well in front,but deadly
                        in their force, as was seen when two or three of the men suddenly sank to the ground in the
                        midst of a stillness which was broken only by the whiz of the occasional bullets.
                    One man cried out with pain. The rest of those struck were still. The one who cried out was
                        slightly wounded. The others were dead. And the battle was not yet begun.
                    At this moment came a courier with orders. Upon receiving them the captain hurriedly turned to
                        Baillie, and said:
                    "Take your section across the Run, at the ford there just to the left. Take position
                        with the skirmish-line and get your orders from its commander. Leave your caissons behind, and
                        move at a gallop."
                    Baillie Pegram was too new to the business of war to understand precisely what all this meant.
                        Had he seen a little more of war he  would have guessed at once
                        that the enemy was moving upon the Confederate left along the road that lay beyond the stream,
                        and that his guns were needed to aid the skirmishers in the work to be done in front in
                        preparation for the battle that had not yet burst in all its fury. He would have understood,
                        too, from the order to leave his caissons behind, that the stand beyond the stream was not meant
                        to be of long duration. The fifty shots he carried in each of his limber-chests would be quite
                        enough to last him till orders should come to fall back across the stream again.
                    But he did not understand all this clearly. What he did understand was that he was under orders
                        to take his guns across the stream and use them there as vigorously as he could till further
                        orders should come.
                    As he emerged from the woods a few hundred yards beyond Bull Run, he found a skirmish-line of men
                        lying down and contesting the ground inch by inch with another line like their own, beyond which
                        he could see the heavy columns of the enemy marching steadily to turn the Confederate left flank
                        and force it from its position.  Notwithstanding his lack of
                        experience in such matters, he saw instantly what was happening, and realised that this left
                        wing of Beauregard's army was destined to receive the brunt of the enemy's
                        attack. He wondered, in his ignorance, if Beauregard knew all this, and if somebody ought not to
                        go and tell him of it.
                    He had no time to think beyond this, for at that moment the skirmish-line, under some order which
                        he had not heard, gave way to the right and left, leaving a little space open for his guns.
                        Planting them there he opened fire with shrapnel, which he now and then changed to canister when
                        the enemy, in his eagerness, pressed forward to within scant distance of the slowly retiring
                        skirmish-line of the Confederates.
                    Under orders Baillie fell back with the skirmishers, moving the guns by hand, and continuing to
                        fire as he went.
                    As the Confederate skirmishers drew near the stream which they were to cross, the officer in
                        command of them said to Pegram:
                    "Advance your guns a trifle, Sergeant-Major, and give them your heaviest fire for
                        twenty-five seconds or so. When they recoil, limber up and  take
                        your guns across the creek as quickly as possible. I'll cover your movement."
                    Baillie did not perfectly understand the purpose of this, but he understood his orders, and very
                        promptly obeyed them. Advancing his guns quickly to a little knoll thirty or forty yards in
                        front, he opened fire with double charges of canister, each gun firing at the rate of three or
                        four times a minute, and each vomiting a gallon of iron balls at each discharge into the faces
                        of a line of men not a hundred yards away. At the same moment the riflemen of the skirmish-line
                        rose to their feet, rushed forward with a yell that impressed Baillie as truly demoniacal, and
                        delivered a murderous volley of Minie balls in aid of his canister. The combined fire was
                        irresistible, as it was meant to be, and the Federal skirmishers fell back in some confusion in
                        face of it.
                    Then the cool-headed leader of the skirmishers turned to Baillie and commanded:
                    "Now be quick. Take your guns across the creek at once. They'll be on us again
                        in a minute with reinforcements, but I'll hold them back till you get the guns
                        across"
                    
                    He had not finished his order when he fell, with a bullet in his brain, and his men, picking him
                        up, laid him limply across his horse, which two of them hurried to the rear, passing within ten
                        feet of Baillie Pegram as he struggled to get his guns across the run without wetting his
                        ammunition.
                    "Poor, gallant fellow!" thought Baillie, as the corpse was borne past
                        him." He was only a captain, but he would have made himself a major-general presently,
                        with his coolness and his determination. He died too soon!"
                    Meanwhile Baillie was busy executing the order that the dead man had given with his last breath,
                        while some other was in command out there in front and struggling to protect the guns till they
                        could pass the stream.
                    It is always so in life. No man is indispensable. When one man falls at the post of duty, there
                        is always some other to take his place. "Men may come and men may go," but the
                        work that men were born to do "goes on for ever."
                    As Baillie was directing the struggles of his drivers in the difficult task of recrossing the
                        stream, three shells burst over him in so quick a  succession that
                        he did not know from which of them came the fragment that cut a great gash in his head and
                        rendered him for the moment senseless. He recovered himself quickly, and this was fortunate, for
                        his untrained and inexperienced men were far less steady in retreat under fire than they had
                        been out there in front, and Baillie's direction was needed now to prevent them from
                        abandoning in panic the guns with which they had fought so gallantly a few minutes before.
                    Under his sharply given commands they recovered their morale, and a few minutes later Baillie
                        brought his powder-grimed guns again into position on the left of the battery. Then,
                        half-blinded by the blood that was flowing freely over his face and clothing, he sought his
                        captain, raised his hand in salute, and said, feebly:
                    "Captain, I beg to report that I have executed my orders. My men have behaved well,
                        every"
                    A heavy musketry fire from the enemy at that moment began, and Baillie Pegram's horsethe
                        beautiful sorrel mare on which Agatha had once riddensank under him, in that strange,  limp way in which a horse falls when killed instantly by a bullet
                        received in any vital part.
                    By good fortune the sergeant-major was not caught under the animal, but as he tried to walk
                        toward the new mount which he had asked for, he staggered and fell, much as the mare had done,
                        but from a different cause. Complete unconsciousness had overtaken him, as a consequence of the
                        shock of his wound and the resultant loss of blood.
                    When he came to consciousness again, he was lying on the grass under a tree, with a young surgeon
                        kneeling beside him, busy with bandages. For a time his consciousness did not extend beyond his
                        immediate surroundings and the terrific aching of his head. Presently the heavy firing which
                        seemed to be all about him, and the zip, zip, zip of bullets as they struck the earth under the
                        hospital tree brought him to a realisation of the fact that battle was raging there, and that
                        he, somehow,he could not make out how,was absent from his post with the guns. He made a sudden
                        effort to rise, but instantly fell back again, unconscious.
                    When he next came to himself there was a  sound as of thousands of
                        yelling demons in his ears, which he presently made out to be the "rebel yell"
                        issuing from multitudinous throats. There were hoof-beats all about him, too, the hoof-beats of
                        a thousand horses moving at full speed. Excited by these sounds, wondering and anxiously
                        apprehensive, he made another effort to rise, but was promptly restrained by the strong but
                        gentle hands of an attendant, who said to him, with more of good sense than grammar:
                    "Lay still. It's all right, and it's all over. We've licked
                        'em, and they's a-runnin' like mad. The horsemen what passed us was
                        Stuart's cavalry, a-goin' after 'em to see that they don't
                        stop too soon."
                    Stuart was drunk with delight. He shouted to his men, as he rode across Stone Bridge:
                        "Come on, boys! We'll gallop over the long bridge into Washington to-night if
                        some blockhead doesn't stop us with orders, and I reckon we can gallop away from
                        orders!"
                    Baillie lay still only because the attendant kept a hand upon his chest and so restrained him. As
                        he listened, the firing receded and grew less in volume, except that now and then it burst out
                        in  a volley. That was when one of Stuart's squadrons
                        came suddenly upon a mass of their confused and fleeing foes and poured a hail-storm of leaden
                        cones in among them as a suggestion that it was time for them to scatter and resume their run
                        for Washington.
                    As the turmoil grew less and faded into the distance, Baillie's wits slowly came back to
                        him, and thoughts of himself returned.
                    "Where am I?" was his first question.
                    "Under a hospital tree on the battle-field of Manassas," answered the
                        nurse." You're about two hundred yards in the rear of the position where your
                        battery has been covering itself with glory all day. It's gone now to help in the
                        pursuit. But it's had it hot and heavy all day, judging from the sloppings
                        over."
                    "The 'sloppings over?' What do you mean?"
                    "Why, the bullets and shells and things that didn't get theirselves stopped,
                        like, on the lines, but come botherin' over here by this hospital tree. Two of
                        'em hit wounded men, an' finally, just at the last, you know, the doctor got
                        his comeuppance."
                    "Was he wounded?"
                    
                    "Wuss 'n that. He war killed, jes' like a ordinary soldier.
                        That's why you're still a-layin' here, an' here
                        you'll lay, I reckon, all night, for they ain't nobody left to give no orders,
                        'ceptin' me, an' I ain't nothin' but a detail. But
                        I'm a-goin' to git you somethin' to eat ef I kin. They's
                        another hospital jest over the hill, an' mebbe they've got somethin'
                        to eat, an' mebbe they's a spare surgeon there, too. Anyhow I'm
                        a-goin' to do the best I kin fer you an' the rest."
                    "How many of us are there?" asked Baillie.
                    "Only four nownot enough for them to bother about, I s'pose they'll
                        say, specially sence two on 'em is clean bound to die, anyhow. All the slightly wounded
                        has been carried away to a reg'lar hospital. That's their game, I reckonto
                        take good keer o' the fellers that's a-goin' to git well, so as to
                        make complaints ef they don't, an' leave the rest what can't live to
                        make no complaints to die where they is."
                    Baillie was too weak, and still too muddled in his intelligence, to disabuse the
                        mountaineer's mind of this misconception. It is only ordinary justice to say that his
                        interpretation was utterly wrong. There was never a more heroic set of  men than the surgeons who ministered on the battle-fields of the Civil War to the
                        wounded on one side or on the other. At the beginning, their department was utterly unorganised,
                        and scarcely at all equipped, either with material appliances or with capable human help in the
                        way of nurses, litter-bearers, or ambulance-men. They did the best they could. When battle was
                        on, they hung yellow flags from trees as near the firing-line as possible, and these flags were
                        respected by both sides, so far as intentional firing upon them was concerned. But located as
                        they were, just in the rear of the fighters, these field-hospitals were constantly under a heavy
                        fire, aimed not at them, but at the fighting-line in front, and it was under such a fire that
                        the young surgeons did their difficult and very delicate work. The tying of an artery was often
                        interfered with by the bursting of a shell which half-buried both patient and surgeon in loose
                        earth. It was the duty of these field-surgeons to do only so much as might be immediately
                        necessaryto put their patients as quickly as possible into a condition in which it was
                        reasonably safe to send them, in ambulances or upon litters, to some better-equipped hospital in
                        the  rear. Very naturally and very properly, the surgeons
                        discriminated, in selecting wounded men to send to the hospitals, between those who were in
                        condition to be removed, and those to whom removal would mean death, certainly or probably. The
                        mountaineer, who had been detailed as a hospital attendant that day, did not understand, and so
                        he misinterpreted.
                    "Where is my hat?" Baillie Pegram asked, after a period of silence.
                    "Is it the one with a red feather in it?" responded the attendant.
                    "Yes."
                    "Well, it's a good deal the wuss for wear," answered the man,
                        producing the blood-soaked and soil-stained headgear. "I don't think
                        you'll want to wear it again."
                    But when the headpiece was brought, the young-man, with feeble and uncertain fingers, detached
                        the feather and thrust it inside his flannel shirt, leaving the lacerated hat where it had
                        fallen upon the ground.
                    "Am I badly wounded?" Pegram asked, after a little.
                    "Well," answered the man, "you've got a  good deal more'n I should like to be a-carryin' around with me.
                        But I reckon you'll pull through, perticular ef you kin git to a hospital after a
                        bit."
                    Just then, as night was falling, a pitiless rain began, and all night long Baillie Pegram lay in
                        a furrow of the field, soaked and suffering. But he removed the feather from its hiding-place,
                        and held it upon his chest, in order that the rain might wash away the blood-stains with which
                        it had been saturated.
                    When the morning came, and the ambulance with it, the blood-stains were gone and the feather was
                        clean, though its texture was limp, its appearance bedraggled, and much of its original colour
                        had been washed out.
                    Two or three days later, Agatha Ronald at her home received by mail a package containing a
                        feather, once red but now badly faded. No note or message of any kind accompanied it, but Agatha
                        understood. She had already learned through the newspapers that "Sergeant-Major Baillie
                        Pegram, after a desperate encounter with the enemy on the outer lines, had been severelyperhaps
                             mortallywounded in the head;" and that
                        "Sergeant-Major Baillie Pegram has been mentioned in General Orders for his gallant
                        conduct on the field, with a recommendation for promotion, if he recovers from his wounds, as
                        the surgeons give little hope that he will."
                    She wrapped the faded feather in tissue-paper, deposited it in a jewelled glove-box which had
                        come to her as an heirloom from her mother, and put it away in one of her most sacred
                        depositories.
                    A week or two later, she learned that Sergeant-Major Baillie Pegram had been removed from the
                        general hospital at Richmond to his home at Warlock, and that he was now expected to recover
                        from his wounds.
                
                
                
                    XI
                    AT WARLOCK
                    
                    "IT'S jes' what I done tole you niggas fust off."
                    That was Sam's comment upon the situation when his master was brought home to Warlock,
                        stretched upon a litter.
                    "I done tole yer what'd happen when Mas' Baillie go off to de wah in
                        dat way, 'thout Sam to take k'yar of him. An' bar in min'
                        what else I done tole yer, too. Ain't de chinch-bug done et up de wheat, jes'
                        as I tole yer? Now, Mas' Baillie, he's a-gwine to die wid that hole in he
                        haid. Den what's a-gwine to become o' you niggas?"
                    Sam promptly installed himself as his master's nurse, sitting by him during the day, and
                        sleeping on the floor by his bedside every night. For a time it seemed likely that the
                        negro's dismal prophecy of Baillie's death would be fulfilled, but  with rest and the bracing air of his own home, he slowly grew
                        better, until he was able at last to sun himself in the porch or under the trees of the lawn.
                    He chafed a good deal at first over the fact that he had not seen the major part of the fighting
                        along Bull Run, and it annoyed him still more that he was likely to lose his share in a campaign
                        which was expected to bring the war to a speedy and glorious end. It was Marshall Pollard who
                        laughed him out of this latter regret. During the long waiting-time that followed the battle of
                        Manassas, Marshall, who had gained a lieutenancy in his battery, secured several brief leaves of
                        absence in order to visit the convalescent man at Warlock.
                    "You're missing nothing whatever, Baillie," he said to him one day, in
                        answer to his querulous complainings." We're doing nothing out there in front
                        of Washington, and, so far as I can see, we're not likely to do anything for many
                        months to come. When the battle of Manassas ended in such a rout of the enemy as never will
                        happen again, we all expected to push on into Washington, where only a very feeble resistance or
                        none  at all would have been met. When that didn't
                        happen, we confidently expected that the army at Centreville would be reinforced at once with
                        every man who could be hurried to the front, and that General Johnston would push across the
                        Potomac and take Washington in the rear, or capture Baltimore and Philadelphia, and cut
                        Washington off.
                    "I don't pretend to understand grand strategy, but this was plain common sense,
                        and I suppose that common sense has its part to play in grand strategy, as in everything else.
                        Anyhow, it is certain that that was the time to strike, and if the army at Manassas had been
                        reinforced and pushed across the Potomac while the enemy was so hopelessly demoralised and
                        disintegrated, there is not the smallest doubt in my mind that the war would have come to an end
                        within a month or two. Instead of that, we have done nothing, while the enemy has been straining
                        every nerve to bring new troops into the field by scores of thousands, and to drill and
                        discipline them for the serious work of war. They have done all this so effectually that they
                        now have two or three men to our one, half a dozen guns to  our
                        one, and supply departments so perfectly organised that no man in all that host need go without
                        his three good meals a day, while we are kept very nearly in a state of starvation, and are now
                        fortifying at Centreville, like a beaten army, whose chief concern is to defend itself against
                        the danger of capture."
                    "Have you ever heard an explanation of this strange state of things?" asked
                        Baillie. "You see, I've been out of the way of hearing anything ever since the
                        battle."
                    "O, yes, I've heard all sorts of explanations. But the real explanation, I
                        think, is the lack of an experienced general, capable of grasping the situation and turning it
                        to account. Neither in the field nor in authority at Richmond, have we a man who ever commanded
                        an army, or even looked on while a great campaign was in progress. General Johnston and General
                        Beauregard are doubtless very capable officers in their way. But until this war came, they were
                        mere captains in the engineer corps, engaged in constructing Mississippi levees, and that sort
                        of thing. Neither of them ever in his life commanded a brigade. Neither ever saw a great  battle, or had anything to do with an army composed of men by
                        scores of thousands.
                    "Their victory at Manassas simply appalled them. They didn't know at all what
                        to do next. They will probably become good and capable commanders of armies before the war is
                        over, but at present they are only ex-captains of engineers, suddenly thrust into positions for
                        which they have absolutely none of that fitness which comes of experience."
                    "But have they not learned enough yet? Will they not now see their opportunity, and
                        undertake a fall campaign?"
                    "No. The opportunity is entirely gone. The Federal army is to-day much stronger in every
                        way than our own. We have pottered away the months that should have been spent in vigorous and
                        decisive action. The only man in our army capable of seeing and seizing such an opportunity and
                        turning it to accountI mean Robert E. Leehas been kept in the mountains of Western Virginia,
                        engaged in settling wretched little disputes among a lot of incapable, cantankerous political
                        brigadiers. It means a long war and a terrible one, Baillie, and you'll have
                        opportunity  to do all the fighting you want before it is over.
                        But nothing of any consequence will be done this fall."
                    The young lieutenant was quite right in his prophecy. Except for a little contest at
                        Drainesvilleamounting to scarcely more than a skirmishthere was 
                        absolutely nothing done until the 21st of October. Then occurred the small, badly ordered and
                        strategically meaningless battle of Leesburg, or Ball's Bluff, when the Federals were
                        again completely defeated. After that came a long autumn of superb campaigning weather, and a
                        tedious winter of complete inaction. Federal expeditions besieged some of the forts and islands
                        along the Carolina coasts, thus preparing the way for a coast campaign which was never made in
                        earnest.
                    There was fighting of some consequence in Kentucky and Missouri, and as the winter waned, General
                        Grant made his important campaign against the forts on the Tennessee and Cumberland Rivers,
                        breaking the Confederate line of defence in that quarter, and pushing it southward. But in
                        Virginia, the natural battle-field, absolutely nothing was done during all those months of weary
                        waiting.
                    For this strange and strangely prolonged pause in a war which had begun with a rush and a hurrah,
                        history has been puzzled to find an explanation. It is true that the Confederate forces were
                        untrained volunteers, whose endurance and discipline could not have been relied upon in an
                        aggressive campaign to anything like the extent to which Lee afterward depended upon the
                        unflinching endurance and unfaltering courage of these same men. But the Federal army was at
                        that time in much worse condition. To, unfamiliarity with war and to complete lack of discipline
                        in that army, there was added the demoralisation of disastrous defeat and panic. General
                        McClellan said in his official capacity, and with carefully chosen words, that when he was
                        placed in control in August, he found "no army to command,a mere collection of
                        regiments cowering on the banks of the Potomac, some perfectly raw, others dispirited by recent
                        defeat, some going home." He completed his description of the situation by saying:
                        "There were no defensive works on the southern approaches to  the capital. Washington was crowded with straggling officers and men absent from
                        their stations without authority."
                    Why the Confederates, with their great victory to urge them on, made no effort to take advantage
                        of such conditions, but lay still instead, giving McClellan many months in which to recruit and
                        organise and drill his forces into one of the most formidable armies of modern times, is one of
                        the puzzles of history. Perhaps Marshall Pollard's suggestion was the correct
                        explanation,namely, that there was no general at Manassas who knew what to do with a great
                        opportunity, or how to do it.
                    Seeing that Baillie was becoming excited by this serious talk, his friend adroitly turned the
                        conversation to less strenuous matters. Half an hour later The Oaks ladies drove up in their
                        antique, high-hung carriage, to make that formal inquiry concerning Mr. Baillie
                        Pegram's convalescence which from the first they had made with great scrupulousness
                        three times every week.
                    When they had gone, Pollard asked:
                    "Have you seen Miss Agatha since that day  last spring,
                        when you were requested not to visit The Oaks?"
                    For a moment Baillie remained silent. Then he said: "If you don't mind,
                        I'd rather not talk of that, Marshall."
                    That was all that passed between these two on that subject during the week of Marshall's
                        stay at Warlock. How unlike men are to women in these things! Had these two young men been two
                        young women instead, how minutely each would have confided to the other the last detail of
                        experience and thought and feeling! And this not because women are more emotional than menfor
                        they are notbut because they are not ashamed, as men are, of the tenderer side of their
                    natures.
                
                
                
                    XII
                    UNDER ESCORT
                    
                    NO sooner had Agatha Ronald determined to enter upon a career of very dangerous service to her
                        cause and country, than she set herself diligently to the work of perfecting plans which were at
                        first vague and undefined. It was no part of her purpose to fail if by any forethought and
                        thoroughness of preparation she might avert the danger of failure. She determined to do nothing
                        until every point and possibility, so far as conditions could be foreseen, should be considered
                        and provided for.
                    First of all, she entered into perfect confidence with her maid, Martha, telling the trusty negro
                        woman as she meant to tell no other person near her, except her grandfather, precisely what she
                        intended to do, and how. Martha had a shrewd intelligence likely to be useful in emergencies,
                        and her devotion to her mistress was as absolute  as that of any
                        devotee to an object of worship. This mistress had been hers to care for by night and by day
                        ever since Agatha had been four years of age. All of loyalty, all of affection, all of
                        self-sacrificing devotion of which the negro character in its best estate is capable, she gave
                        to Agatha, never doubting her due or questioning her right to such service of the heart and
                        soul. She knew no other love than this, no other life than that of unceasing, all-embracing care
                        for her mistress.
                    It was with no shadow of doubt or hesitation, therefore, that Agatha revealed her purposes to
                        Martha, and asked for her aid in carrying them out. And Martha received the somewhat startling
                        confidence as calmly as if her mistress had been telling her of an intended afternoon drive.
                    When matters had settled down into apathetic idleness after the battle of Manassas, Agatha made
                        occasion to visit the army. Officers at Fairfax Court-house had their wives and daughters with
                        them at their headquarters then, and many of these were Agatha's intimates, whom she
                        might visit without formal invitation.
                    At their quarters, she received visits from such  of her friends as
                        belonged to the cavalry forces stationed thereabouts. In her intercourse with these, she
                        steadily maintained the innocent little fiction that she was there solely for social purposes,
                        and to see the splendid army that had so recently won an astonishing victory.
                    One day, she learned that the picturesque cavalier, General J. E. B. Stuart, had boldly pushed
                        his outposts to Mason's and Munson's Hills, and established his headquarters
                        under a tree, within easy sight of Washington. She instantly developed an intense desire to
                        visit him there. It happened that she knew Stuart and his family personally, and had often dined
                        in the great cavalry leader's company at her own and other homes. So she said one day,
                        to a young cavalry officer, who was calling upon her:
                    "I want you to do me a very great service. I want you to ask General Stuart to let me
                        visit him at the outposts. He'll offer to come here to call upon me instead, for he is
                        always gallant, but you are to tell him I will not permit that. The service needs him at the
                        front, and I want to visit him there. Besides, I particularly want  to take a peep at Washington City in its new guise as a foreign capital which we are
                        besieging."
                    The young man remonstrated. He protested that there was very great danger in the attemptthat
                        raids from the picket-lines were of daily occurrence, that the firing was often severeand all
                        the rest of it, wherefore General Stuart would almost certainly forbid the young lady's
                        proposed enterprise.
                    The girl calmly looked the young man in the eyeshe was an old friend whom she had known from her
                        childhoodand said, very solemnly:
                    "Charlie, I am no more afraid of bullets than you are. My heart is set upon this visit,
                        and you must arrange it for me. As for General Stuart, I'll manage
                        him, if you'll carry a note to him for me."
                    That young man had once begun to make love to Agatha, and she had checked him gently and
                        affectionately in time to spare his pride, and to make of him her willing knight for all time to
                        come. So he answered promptly:
                    "I'll carry your note, of course, and if Stuart gives permission, I'll
                        beg to be myself your escort.  Then, if anybody bothers you with
                        bullets or anything else, it'll be a good deal the worse for him."
                    The girl thanked him in a way that would have made a hero of him in her defence had occasion
                        served, and presently she scribbled a little note and placed it in the young
                        cavalryman's hands for delivery. It was simple enough, but it was so worded as to make
                        sure that Stuart would promptly grant its request. It ran as follows:
                    "MY DEAR GENERAL STUART: I very
                        much want to see you for half an hour out where you are, at Mason's or
                        Munson's Hill, and not here at Fairfax Court-house. My visit will be absolutely and
                        entirely in the public interest, though to all others than yourself I am pretending that it is
                        prompted solely by the whim of a romantic young girl. Please send a permit at once, and please
                        permit Lieutenant Fauntleroy, who bears this, to be my escort."
                    The note was unsealed, of course, except by the honour of the gentleman who bore it.
                        Stuart's response was prompt, as every act of his enthusiastic  life was sure to be. He read the note, held a corner of the sheet in the blaze of
                        his camp-fire, and retained his hold upon the farther corner of it until it was quite consumed.
                        Then he dropped the charred sheets into the coals, and turning to Lieutenant Fauntleroy,
                        commanded:
                    "Return at once to Fairfax Court-house, detail an escort of half a dozen good men under
                        your own personal command, and escort Miss Ronald to my headquarters. Be very careful not to
                        place the young lady under fire if you can avoid it. Ride in the woods, or under other cover,
                        wherever you can. Remember, you will have a lady in charge, and must take no risks."
                    "At what time shall I report with Miss Ronald?"
                    "At her timeat whatever time she shall fix upon as most pleasing to her."
                    Thus it came about that before noon of the next day, in the midst of a pouring rain-storm,
                        General Stuart lifted Agatha Ronald from her saddle, taking her by the waist for that purpose.
                        He welcomed her with a kiss upon her brow, as the daughter of a house whose hospitality he had
                        often enjoyed. He quickly escorted her to  a little brush shelter
                        which he had made his men hastily construct as a defence for her against the rain, and ordered
                        the sentries posted full fifty yards away, in order that the conversation might by no chance be
                        overheard.
                    "It is a splendid service," he said, when the girl had finished telling him of
                        her plans. "But it will be attended by extraordinary danger to a young woman like
                        you."
                    "I have considered all that, General," she replied, very seriously. "I
                        do not shrink from the danger."
                    "Of course not. You are a woman, a Virginian, and a Ronald,three sufficient guarantees
                        of courage. But I'm afraid for you. It is a terrible risk you are going to
                        takeimmeasurably greater in the case of a woman than in that of a man."
                    "I have my wits, General,and this," showing him a tiny revolver. "With
                        that a woman can always defend her honour."
                    "You mean by suicide?"
                    "Yesif necessity compels." Stuart looked at the gentle girl, gazing into her
                        fawn-like brown  eyes as if trying to read her soul in their
                        depths. Presently he said:
                    "God bless you and keep you, dear! I'm going to ride back to Fairfax
                        Court-house with you. Make yourself as comfortable as you can here for half an hour, while I
                        ride out to the pickets. I'll be with you soon, and then we'll have dinner,
                        for you are my guest to-day."
                    When the dinner was served, it consisted of some ears of corn, plucked from a neighbouring field,
                        and roasted with husks unremoved, among the live coals of the cavalier's camp-fire.
                        Stuart made no apology for the lack of variety in the meal, for he sincerely accepted the
                        doctrine which he often preached to his men, that "anything edible makes a good enough
                        dinner if you are hungry, and the simpler it is, the better. There's nothing more
                        troublesome in a campaign than cooking utensils and unnecessary things generally. If armies
                        would move without them, there'd be more and better fighting done. The chief thing in
                        war is to start at once and get there without delay."
                    The meal over, Stuart held out his hand as a step, from which Agatha lightly sprang into  her saddle. Then he mounted the superb gray, which he always rode
                        when battle was on, or when he had a gentlewoman under his charge. For there was a touch of the
                        boyish dandy in Stuart, and a good deal more than a touch of that gallantry which prompts every
                        true man of warm blood to honour womanhood with every possible attention.
                    The horse was fit for his rider, and that is saying quite all that can be said in praise of a
                        horse. Mounted upon him, Stuart was the bodily presentment of all that painters and sculptors
                        have imagined the typical cavalier to be or to seem. Stalwart of figure, erect in carriage, his
                        muscles showing themselves in graceful strength with every movement of his body, his head
                        carried like that of a boy or a young bull, his beard closely clipped, his moustache standing
                        out straight at the ends, and resembling that of Virginia's earliest knight errant,
                        Captain John Smith, of Jamestown, Stuart was a picture to look upon, which the onlooker did not
                        soon forget. His many-gabled slouch hat was decorated with streaming plumes, that helped to make
                        of him a target for the enemy's sharpest sharpshooters whenever battle  was on. Full of vigour, full of health, and full to the very lips
                        of a boyish enthusiasm of life, he seemed never to know what weariness might signify, and never
                        for one moment to abate the intensity of his purpose. He did all things as if all had been part
                        of a great game in which he was playing for a championship.
                    On this occasion, however, his manner was subdued, and his conversation serious in a degree
                        unusual to one of his effervescent spirits. He was riding with Agatha Ronald for the very
                        serious purpose of talking with her about details that must be carefully arranged with a view to
                        her safety in the dangerous undertaking upon which she was about to enter. A word or two to
                        Lieutenant Fauntleroy sent that officer with his escort squad to the front, while Stuart and his
                        change rode in rear.
                    "Now, one thing more is necessary, Miss Agatha," he said. "You ought
                        to renter our country far to the west, if you can, where there are no armies, and only small
                        detachments. Still, I don't know so well about that. Here we keep the Yankees too busy
                        at the front to attend to matters in the rear, while over in the valley they'll  have nothing better to do than look out for wandering women like
                        you. Anyhow, you may find it necessary or advisable to enter my lines. In that case, you must be
                        arrested immediately and brought to my headquarters. That is necessary on all accountsto prevent
                        the nature of your mission from being discovered, andwell, to prevent you from having to report
                        to anybody but me. I shall want to see you, and hear all about your results. So I'm
                        going to give orders every day that will put every picket-officer on watch for you, and impress
                        every one of them with the idea that you are a peculiarly dangerous person, in league with
                        traitors on our side, and trying to put yourself into communication with such. I cannot give you
                        any sort of paper, you see, for papers are always dangerous. But I'll give you six
                        words that will answer the purpose. Whenever you speak the right one of these words with
                        emphasis, the picket-officer will understand that you are the very dangerous spy whose entrance
                        into our lines I anticipate, and whose arrest I particularly desire to secure. I'll
                        give out one of the six words each day, particularly charging officers of the pickets that any
                        woman entering  our lines by any means, and using that word with
                        emphasis, is the spy I want,that her use of it will be intended for the purpose of finding
                        traitorous friends, and that any such woman, no matter upon what pretext she enters the lines,
                        is to be arrested as soon as she uses the word. Only one of these words will be given out each
                        day, but you will know them all, and use them in succession until you use the right one and are
                        arrested. The words will be such as you can embody in an ordinary sentence without exciting the
                        suspicion of any of the men who may be standing by,for, of course, only officers will be
                        commissioned to arrest you. You can use the words in different sentences, until you use the
                        right one. Then you will be arrested and brought to my headquarters, where I hope to have a
                        better dinner than that of to-day to offer you."
                    Just at that moment, the road along which they were riding passed between two abandoned fields,
                        each of which was skirted by woodlands on its farther side. Stuart raised his head like a
                        startled deer, and said:
                    "We must quit the road here, and put ourselves  behind
                        that skirt of timber over on the left. Your horse will take the fence easily."
                    With that the pair pushed their animals over the rail fence on the left, and at a gallop rode
                        across the field toward a little strip of young chestnut woodland that lay beyond. But just as
                        they reached the centre of the field there came the zip, zip, zip of bullets striking the earth,
                        the whiz of bullets passing their ears, and the weird whistle of bullets passing over them, one
                        of which, now and then, turned somersaults in its course, and produced the peculiar sound that
                        only bullets so misbehaving are capable of producing. At the same moment, the escort under
                        Lieutenant Fauntleroy, who had been in front, fell back to protect its charge, as it was its
                        duty to do. Stuart hurriedly said to the girl:
                    "Ride for your life to the chestnut-trees, and hide yourself there, while I take care of
                        those fellows. I'll come to you when it's over."
                    With that he turned about, placed himself at the head of the little escort squad, and, swinging
                        his sabre, as he always did in action, led them at a furious pace, over a fence and into the
                        thicket from which the fire was coming. The few men  who were
                        lurking there were quickly scattered, and abandoning their arms, they ran with all their might
                        to the strong picket-post from which they had been thrown out to intercept him.
                    This done, all danger of further trouble was at an end, or would have been, had Stuart willed it
                        so. But the scent of battle was always in his nostrils. His men were accustomed to say that he
                        was always "looking for trouble," whenever there was the smallest chance of
                        finding it. So instead of contenting himself with having dispersed the assailing party, he
                        wheeled about to the right, and led his squad with the fury of Mameluke against the strong
                        picket-post itself. Amid a hailstorm of bullets he charged through the half-company there
                        posted, and then, turning about, charged back again, completing the work of destruction and
                        dispersal.
                    It was not until this was over, and he had given the command, "Trot," that he
                        saw Agatha by his side, her pistol in hand and empty of its charges, her hair loosened and
                        falling in tangled masses over her shoulders, her face aglow, and her lithe form as erect as
                        that of any trooper among them all.
                    
                    "But my dear Miss Ronald," Stuart ejaculated, "what are you doing
                        here?"
                    "Riding under gallant escort, General, that is all."
                    "But I ordered you to take refuge in the timber."
                    "Yes, I know," she answered, with a laughing challenge in her eyes,
                        "but as I have never been mustered in, I'm not subject to your orders. You
                        can't court-martial me, can you, General?"
                    Stuart looked at her before answeringhis eyes full of an admiration that was dimmed by glad
                        tears. At last he leaned over, kissed her again upon the forehead, and said, impressively:
                    "What a wife you'll make for a soldier some day!"
                    
                    
                        "'Riding under gallant escort'"
                    
                
                
                
                    XIII
                    A SOUVENIR SERVICE
                    
                    DURING the rest of the journey Agatha was excited and full of enthusiasm. She had participated in
                        a fight under the lead of the gallantest of cavaliers, and she had borne herself under fire in a
                        way that had won his admiration. That admiration found expression in a hundred ways, and chiefly
                        in pressing offers of service. Before their parting he said to her:
                    "Now, my dear Miss Agatha, you really must let me do you some favour. I want to cherish
                        the memory of this day's glorious ride, and I want to render you some service, the
                        memory of which may serve as a souvenir. What shall it be?"
                    At that moment there came to Agatha's mind one of those inspirations that come to all of
                        us at times, quite without consciousness of whence they come or why. She answered:
                    "You are already doing everything for me,  General. You
                        have sanctioned an enterprise on which I have set my heart, and you have done all you could to
                        make it successful. You gave me for dinner to-day the very best ear of green corn that I ever
                        tasted. You have personally and very gallantly escorted me back here to Fairfax Court-house, and
                        on the way you have got up for me the most dramatic bit of action that I ever saw. I am
                        convinced that you did it only for my entertainment, and I am truly grateful." Then
                        with a sudden access of intense seriousness, she added, "And you have opened a way to
                        me to render that service to my country which I had planned. Never, so long as you live,and I
                        hope that may be long for Virginia's sake,will you know or imagine how great a service
                        you have rendered me in this. But you insist upon doing more. You insist that I shall crave a
                        boon at your hands. Very well; I will do so."
                    With that readiness of response which characterised everything that Stuart did, he seized the
                        opportunity offered, and broke into Agatha's sentence with the answer:
                    "Of course I insist. What is it that I may do?"
                    
                    "I want you to secure a captain's commission, then, for Sergeant-Major Baillie
                        Pegram. You know all about his family. He volunteered as a private. He was promoted to be
                        sergeant-major by Stonewall Jackson's own request, in recognition of his good conduct.
                        He was terribly wounded at Manassas, mentioned in general orders, and strongly recommended for
                        promotion for gallantry on the field. My aunts write to me" here Agatha fibbed a
                        little, as a woman is permitted to do under circumstances that might otherwise compromise her
                        dignity, for it was not her aunts, but a highly intelligent negro maid in their service who kept
                        the young lady informed as to Baillie Pegram's condition"my aunts tell me he
                        is getting well again, and will soon be ready for duty."
                    "What is his arm?" asked Stuart, eagerly.
                    "Light artillery," Agatha answered.
                    "Has he influence?"
                    "How do you mean?"
                    "Could he get men to enlist?"
                    "Why, of course. He's the master of Warlock, you know."
                    Then with a little touch of embarrassment, she  added, "I
                        mean he is the head of one of the great families, and they always have influence."
                    "O, yes, of course," Stuart answered." I see the situation clearly.
                        Will you say to Mr. PegramSergeant-Major Pegram, I meanthat I have authority from the War
                        Department to raise three companies of flying artillery, with the men all mounted, to serve with
                        the cavalry, and that if he can form such a company,of fifty or seventy-five men, or better
                        still a hundred menI will secure him a captain's commission with authority to do
                        so?"
                    "But, General," said the girl, quickly, and in manifest fright, "I do
                        not correspond with Mr. Pegram. In fact we are very nearly
                        strangers."
                    
                    "O, I see," answered the cavalier, with a twinkle in his eyes." How
                        long has it been since you and this gallant young gentleman arranged to be 'very nearly
                        strangers?'"
                    "O, you entirely mistake, General," the girl quickly answered. "Really
                        and truly I never knew Mr. Pegram very well; but he wore a red feather of mine at the battle of
                        Manassas, and afterward he sent it back to me andwell, anyhow he proved his gallantry and he
                        really ought  to be something more than a sergeant-major,
                        don't you think?"
                    For answer Stuart made a sweeping bow, removing his hat and saying: "Concerning
                        Sergeant-Major Baillie Pegram, I think whatever you think. Anyhow, as he had the good taste to
                        wear your red feather, and as he has fought well enough to secure a wound and a mention in
                        general orders and your personal approval, he shall be a captain if he wants to be. Give me his
                        address, and you need not have any correspondence with him."
                    "I'll write it," she answered, "if you'll excuse me
                        for a moment," and with that she retired within doorsfor they had been standing in the
                        porchin a rage of vexation with herself. She hastily sponged off her inflamed face with cold
                        water, dried it, and loosely twisted up her errant hair, which had run riot over her neck and
                        shoulders ever since the little encounter with the enemy. Then she scribbled Baillie
                        Pegram's Warlock address on a scrap of paper and returned to Stuart's
                        presence, with the mien and bearing of a queen.
                    The cavalier's face was rippling all over with  smiles as
                        he bade her adieu, wished her Godspeed in her enterprise, and turned away. At the steps he faced
                        about, and advancing said to her:
                    "When do you wish to return to Fauquier?"
                    "I shall go home to-morrow morning," she answered.
                    "You travel in your own carriage, of course?"
                    "Yes, and my maid is with me."
                    "Very well," he answered." At sunrise a platoon under command of a
                        trusty officer will report here and serve as your escort."
                    "But, General, surely that is not necessary."
                    "Not necessary, perhaps," was the answer, "but it pleases me to have
                        it so, and you'll indulge my fancy, I am sure. I hope to have you as my prisoner before
                        many moons have passed."
                    She understood, and with a rippling smile she replied:
                    "Thank you, and good-bye. I shall certainly enjoy my next ear of green corn if I am
                        permitted to take it in your company, under some tree that you have honoured by making it your
                        headquarters."
                    "O, my ravenous cavalrymen will have eaten up all the green corn long before that time;
                        but  I'll give you a dinner if I have to raid a Federal
                        picket-post to get it."
                    With that he sprang into his saddle, waved a farewell, and rode away singing:
                    
                        "If you want to have a good time,
                        Jine the cavalry,
                        Jine the cavalry,
                        Jine the cavalry,
                        If you want to have a good time,
                        Jine the cavalry,
                        Jine the cav-al-ry."
                    
                    It was Stuart's boast at that time that he knew the face and name of every man in his
                        old first regiment, and he afterward extended this boast to include all the men in the first
                        brigade of Virginia Cavalry. He used to say: "I ought to remember those fellows; they
                        made me a major-general."
                    But however well Stuart knew his men, with whom he fraternised in a way very unusual to most
                        officers bred in the regular army, as he had been, nobody ever pretended to know him well enough
                        to guess with any accuracy what he would do next under any given circumstances. On this occasion
                        he had not brought his staff with him, but that made small difference with an officer of  his temper, whose habit of mind it was to disregard forms and
                        ceremonies, and to go straight to his purpose, whatever it might happen to be. When he left
                        Agatha, he rode at once to the camp of a detached company and asked for its captain. To him he
                        said:
                    "Send couriers to all the cavalry camps, and say that General Stuart orders the entire
                        force to report in front at once."
                    He designated three roads and four bridle-paths by which the commands were to move; and three or
                        four points of rendezvous. Then he added:
                    "Let the men move lightno baggage or blankets or anything else but arms and
                        ammunition."
                    A moment later he met Colonel Fitzhugh Lee, who had succeeded him in command of the old first
                        regiment,"my Mamelukes," as Stuart loved to call them. The two grasped hands,
                        and Stuart said: "I've ordered everybody to the front. You are to take command
                        on the left. We must drive the Federal pickets back from all their advanced posts. They are
                        growing impudent. They fired at a lady under my personal  escort
                        to-day. We must teach them not to repeat that."
                    Of course the men who had done the firing in question had no means of knowing that there was a
                        woman among the assailed, and Stuart knew the fact very well. But he chose to regard whatever
                        happened as something intended.
                    Turning from Lee, he galloped to the camp of some batteries, and said to the officer in command:
                    "I wish you'd lend me a couple of guns or so for the afternoon. I've
                        some work to do. Send them out along the Falls Church road. I'll not have to go
                        borrowing guns after a little while. I'll have some mounted batteries of my
                        own."
                    The officer addressed issued the necessary orders as quietly as a gentleman in his own house
                        might bid a servant bring a glass of water for a thirsty guest. No questions were asked on
                        either side, and no explanations offered. It is not the military fashion to ask unnecessary
                        questions or to give needless explanations.
                    By this time the cavalry regiments were streaming by on their hurried way to the front, saluting
                        Stuart as they passed, and now and then cheering, as they were apt to do when they saw  their gallant leader. He in his turn nodded and bowed in
                        acknowledgment, and now and then called out a cheery word of greeting. He would be at the head
                        of all these fellows presently, and they knew that "the performance would not
                        begin," as they were in the habit of saying, till he should be there to lead. But
                        meanwhile he had something else to attend to, for Stuart never forgot anything that he wanted to
                        remember, however engrossingly he might be engaged with other affairs. Riding up to a tent
                        before which Colonel Field was standing awaiting his horse, he asked:
                    "Is your adjutant with you, Field?"
                    "Nohe has gone on with orders, but his orderly is here. General."
                    "That will do as well." Then turning to the orderly, who had appeared, he said:
                    "Take down a paper from dictation, please. When it is written out, bring it to me at the
                        front for signature."
                    The dictation was as follows:
                    "General J. E. B. Stuart, commanding the cavalry, respectfully reports that in pursuance
                        of the authorisation of the War Department, he has  selected
                        Sergeant-Major Baillie Pegram, of's battery, as one of the persons to be commissioned
                        captain of artillery and authorised to raise a mounted battery to serve with the cavalry.
                        General Stuart begs to report that Sergeant-Major Pegram's character and qualifications
                        are abundantly certified, and that he has already been mentioned in general orders and
                        recommended for promotion for conspicuous gallantry in the battle of Manassas. He is at present
                        at his home, recovering from a severe wound received in that action. All of which is
                        respectfully submitted."
                    "There!" said Stuart, when the dictation was done. "Write that out,
                        fold and indorse it properly, and bring it to me at the front for signature. Then forward it
                        through the regular channels."
                    Then Stuart put spurs to his horse, and galloped to the front. There he made hurried disposition
                        of the various commands, and half an hour later hurled his whole force precipitately upon all
                        the Federal outposts on the ten-mile line. The onset was sudden and resistless, and within a
                        brief while every picket-post of the enemy was  abandoned, and a
                        new line of observation established many miles nearer to Washington City.
                    With that tireless energy and that sleepless vigilance in attention to details which always
                        characterised the conduct of this typical chevalier, Stuart spent the entire night following
                        this day's work in visiting his new outposts, from one end of the line to the other.
                        Yet when morning came he breakfasted upon an ear of raw corn and a laugh, and rode on to
                        Munson's Hill to learn what signals had been received from his agents in Washington
                        during the night.
                
                
                
                    XIV
                    QUICK WORK
                    
                    IT was a warm, soft day in autumn, joyous in its sunshine, sad in its suggestions of the
                        year's decay. Baillie Pegram, now nearly well again, but still lacking strength, was
                        lolling on the closely clipped sward under one of the great trees at Warlock, chatting
                        disjointedly with Marshall Pollard, who had got away again on a few days' leave of
                        absence, for the purpose of visiting his friend. Baillie had already written to his captain,
                        reporting himself as nearly well again, expressing regret at his long absence from duty, and
                        announcing his purpose of rejoining the battery within a week or ten days at
                        furthest"at the earliest time," he said, "when I can persuade the
                        surgeons to release me from their clutches." This was likely, therefore, to be the last
                        meeting between the two friends for many moons to come.
                    "Tell me about yourself, old fellow," said 
                        Baillie, after a pause in the conversation. "How do you like your service in that
                        battery of ruffians?"
                    "Thoroughly well. They're not half-bad fellows when kept under military
                        discipline, and I've enjoyed studying them psychologically. I'm convinced that
                        the only reason society has failed so consummately in its attempts to deal with the criminal
                        class is that it hasn't taken pains to understand them or find out their point of view.
                        We really haven't taken pains enough even to classify them, or to find out the
                        differences there are among them. We class them all togetherall who violate the lawand call them
                        criminals, and proceed to deal with them as if they were a totally different species from
                        ourselves, whereas, in point of fact, they are 'men like unto ourselves,' with
                        like passions and desires and impulses. The only real difference is that circumstances and
                        education and association have taught us to curb our passions and hold our impulses in check,
                        while they have run wild, obeying those instincts which are born in all of us.
                    "They are usually very generous fellowsimpulsive, affectionate, and loyal to such friend
                             ships as they know. If you discovered any wrong being done to
                        me, or heard any unjust accusation made against me, you'd resist and resent instantly.
                        But you'd know precisely how far and in what direction to carry your resentment, while
                        these fellows do not know anything except the instincts of a righteous wrath. There
                        isn't a man in Skinner's Battery who wouldn't be quick to stand for
                        me and by me. But in doing so he would calmly kill the man who injured me, and never be able to
                        understand why he must be hanged for doing so.
                    "Most of them have been made hardened criminals solely by society's blundering
                        way of dealing with them. It has sent them to jail, for small first offences, committed in
                        ignorance perhaps. It has thus declared war upon them, and with the instincts of manhood they
                        have taken up the gage of battle. In other words, it is my sincere belief that quite nine in ten
                        of the criminal class are criminal only because of society's neglect at first and
                        blundering afterward. They need education and discipline; we give them resentful punishment
                        instead, and there is a world of difference between the two things.
                    
                    "However, I did not mean to deliver a lecture on penology. And after all I am no longer
                        one of the ruffians, you know. All the officers of the battery are gentlemen, while none of the
                        men happens to be anything of the kind. There is, therefore, as sharp a line of demarcation
                        drawn in our battery, between officers and enlisted men, as there is in any regular army. This
                        makes things pleasant for the officers, and I fancy they are not unpleasant for the men. It is a
                        case of aristocracy where the upper class enjoys itself and the lower class is content. It is
                        quite different from service in an ordinary Confederate company of volunteers. There the
                        enlisted men are socially quite as good as their officers and sometimes distinctly better. Under
                        such circumstances it is difficult to maintain more of distinction and discipline than the
                        enlisted men may voluntarily consent to. Socially, with us Southern people, it is quite as
                        honourable to be an enlisted man in such a battery as yours as to be a commissioned officer.
                        That's a good enough thing in its way, but it isn't military, and it is
                        distinctly bad for the service."
                    "I don't know so well about that," said Baillie.  "We have at least the advantage of knowing that, discipline or no
                        discipline, every man in the ranks, equally with every officer, has a personal reputation at
                        home to sustain by good conduct. Even your desperadoes couldn't fight better than the
                        young fellows I had with me on the skirmish-line at Manassas, though they had never had anything
                        resembling discipline to sustain them. Every man of them knew that if he
                        'flunked' he could never go home againunless all flunked at once and so kept
                        each other company. That very nearly happened while we were falling back across Bull
                        Run."
                    "Precisely. And it happened to the whole Federal army a few hours later. Discipline,
                        with a ready pistol-shot behind it, would have prevented that in both cases.
                        'Man's a queer animal,' you know, if you remember your reading, and
                        one of the queerest things about him is that when he has once accustomed himself to accept
                        orders unquestioningly, and to obey them blindly, as every soldier does in drilling, he becomes
                        far more afraid of mere orders than he is of the heaviest fire. Personal courage and high spirit
                        among the men are admirable in their way, but  for the purposes of
                        battle, discipline and the habit of blind obedience are very much more trustworthy. If you want
                        to make soldiers of men, you must teach them, morning, noon, and night, that blind,
                        unquestioning obedience is the only virtue they can cultivate. That isn't good for the
                        personal characters of the men, of course, but it is necessary in the case of soldiers, and our
                        volunteers will all of them have to learn the lesson before this war is over. More's
                        the pity, for I can't imagine how a whole nation of men so trained to submission can
                        ever again become a nation ofoh, confound it! I'm running off again into a
                        psychological speculation. Fortunately, here comes a letter for you."
                    A servant approached, bearing upon a tray a missive from The Oaks ladies, which had been
                        delivered at the house a few minutes earlier. The grand dames assured Mr. Baillie Pegram of
                        their highest respect and esteem, but suggested that, to the very great satisfaction of the
                        anxiety they had so long felt on his account, they were convinced by his assurances to that
                        effect, that he was now so far advanced on the road to complete recovery as perhaps to excuse
                        them from the  necessity of making their thrice a week journey to
                        Warlock to inquire concerning his welfare. If they were mistaken in this assumption, would not
                        Mr. Baillie Pegram kindly notify them? And if the daily inquiries which they intended to make
                        hereafter through a trusty servant, should at any moment bring to them news of a relapse, they
                        would instantly resume their personal and most solicitous inquiries.
                    To this Baillie laughingly wrote a reply equally formal, in which he assured the good ladies that
                        their tender concern for him during his illness had been a chief factor in a recovery which was
                        now practically complete.
                    Meantime Sam had come with the mail-pouch from the post-office, and it held two letters for
                        Baillie.
                    One of these was a formal and official communication from the War Department, informing him that
                        upon General J. E. B. Stuart's recommendation, he had been appointed captain of
                        artillery with authority to raise a mounted battery of from fifty to one hundred men, for
                        service with the cavalry. His commission, dating from the day of his wound at Manassas,
                        accompanied the  document, and with it an order for him to
                        proceed, as soon as he should be fit for service, to enlist and organise the company thus
                        authorised, and to make the proper requisitions for arms and equipments.
                    Baillie's second letter was a personal one from Stuart. It was scribbled in pencil on
                        the envelopes of some old letters and such other fragments of paper as the cavalier could
                        command at some picket-post. It read:
                    "I have asked the War Department to commission you as a captain, to raise a company of
                        mounted artillery to serve with me in front. I understand that you have a healthy liking for the
                        front. The War Department lets me choose my own men for this service, and I have chosen you
                        first, for several reasons. One is that you know what to do with a gun. Another is that you
                        fought so well at Manassas. Another is that you are very strongly recommended to me by a person
                        whose judgment is absolutely conclusive to my mind.
                    "Now get to work as quickly as you can. Enrol fifty or seventy-five, or better still a
                        hundred men if you can find them. Put them in  camp and instruct
                        them, and report to me the moment you are ready. Make requisition for gunssix of them if you can
                        secure a hundred menand drill your men at the piece. For a hundred men in mounted artillery you will need about 170 horses100 for the cannoniers to ride and 70 for
                        the guns, etc. There is likely to be your difficulty. Can't you help yourself out a
                        bit? I am told that you have influence. Can't you persuade your neighbours to
                        contribute some at least of the horses you need? The quicker your battery is horsed the quicker
                        you'll get a chance to practise your men in gunnery with the enemy for a target. Please
                        send me a personal line, telling me how soon you will be ready to join me. It will take a month
                        or two, of course, but I hope it won't take more."
                    Twelve hours later Baillie Pegram sent an answer to General Stuart's letter. In it he
                        said:
                    "Thank you. I'll have the men and the horses within twenty-four hours. If the
                        guns are promptly forthcoming on my requisition, I'll be ready within two days to
                        receive orders to join you. As for drill, I can attend to that in front  of Washington as well as in camp of instruction at Richmond."
                    But before sending that note, which delighted Stuart's soul when it came, Baillie Pegram
                        had done a world of earnest work.
                    First of all there was the problem of getting the men. The able-bodied citizens of the county had
                        already volunteered for the most part, but some were still waiting for one reason or another,
                        and Baillie, who knew everybody, sent hurried notes to all of these, by special negro
                        messengers, asking each to send an immediate reply to him at the Court-house. On this service he
                        employed all his young negroes, mounting them on all his mules. The men appealed to responded
                        almost to a man, for the master of Warlock was a man under whose command his neighbours eagerly
                        wanted to serve, and Baillie found more than half of them awaiting him at the county seat, when
                        he got there in mid-afternoon.
                    Still better, he found a messenger there from one of the men whom he had summoned. This messenger
                        came from a camp at a little distance, where were assembled about sixty or seventy men  and boys peculiarly situated. These men and boys had belonged to
                        a company composed mainly of college students, which had gone out with the earliest volunteers.
                        The company had been captured at Rich Mountain, and the men composing it had been sent home on
                        parole. Within the two days preceding Baillie Pegram's call for volunteers, official
                        notification had come of the discharge of all these men from parole by virtue of an exchange of
                        prisoners. Thereupon the men, thus left free to volunteer again, had met in camp to consider
                        what should be done. Their company had been officially disbanded, and there were now not enough
                        of them left to secure its reorganisation. When Baillie Pegram's call for volunteers
                        came, therefore, the men were called together, and in pursuance of a resolution, unanimously
                        adopted, a messenger was sent to the Court-house to say that sixty-two men of the disbanded
                        company offered themselves for enrolment under Captain Pegram, and that they would report for
                        duty on the following morning at the Court-house.
                    Thus before four o'clock Baillie was assured of his hundred men or more. The next
                        problem  was to secure horses. He called together such of his men
                        as were present, and said:
                    "Each of you is mounted. We shall need your horses. The government will have them
                        valued, and will pay the assessed price for any that may die in the service. It will pay monthly
                        for their services. How many of you will enlist your horses as well as yourselves, as all our
                        cavalrymen have done?"
                    The response was general, and many of the planters offered additional horses on the same terms,
                        so that before night fell Baillie Pegram had more than a hundred men and about a hundred and
                        thirty horses secured. Forty or fifty more horses must be had, but Baillie knew how to secure
                        them, and so he sent off his note to Stuart. Then he turned to Marshall Pollard, and said:
                    "I want you to go to Richmond by the midnight train, old fellow, and return by the
                        noonday train to-morrow. I've a mind to complete this business at a stroke.
                        I've a few thousand dollars in bank and a few thousand more in the hands of my
                        commission merchant. The money is worth its face now. Heaven only knows what it will be  worth a year hence. I'm going to spend it now for the
                        rest of the horses I need, and I want you to go to Richmond and bring it to me. In the meanwhile
                        I'll bargain with a drover who is not very far away, for the horses."
                    Then, weak as he was, Baillie planned to ride the dozen miles that lay between the Court-house
                        and the point where the drover was camping with his horses, but one of his friends, who had just
                        enlisted with him, bade him to go to the tavern and to bed, saying:
                    "I'll have the drover and his horses here before noon to-morrow, and I shall
                        know something about the horses by that time, too, for I'll come back in company with
                        them, and I'll keep my eyes open."
                    No sooner was Baillie comfortably stretched upon a lounge in his hotel room, than Sam presented
                        himself.
                    "Mas' Baillie." the negro boy broke in, without waiting for his master
                        to ask how he came to be there, "Mas' Baillie, you's a-gwine to be
                        one o' de officers now, jes' as you ought to ha' been fust off. Now
                        you'll need Sam wid you, won't you?"
                    
                    "I'll need somebody, I suppose," the young man answered, with a laugh
                        at Sam's enthusiasm, "but if I take you along where I am going,
                        you'll stand a mighty good chance of getting a bullet-hole through you, or having your
                        black head knocked off your shoulders by a shell. Have you thought of that?"
                    "Co'se I'se thought o' dat, an' I ain't de
                        leas' bit afeard nuther. I'se a Pegram nigga from Warlock, I is, an'
                        a Pegram nigga from Warlock ain't got no more business to be afeared o'
                        bullets when his duty brings 'em in his way, dan a white folks Pegram hisself is. Ef
                        ye'll jes' take Sam along of you, you sha'n't never have no
                        'casion to be shamed o' yer servant."
                    "Very well, Sam," answered the master; "now go back to Warlock, and
                        tell your mammy you're going to the war. By the way, you may have that old velveteen
                        and corduroy hunting suit of mine to wear. Get it from the closet in the chamber, and tell your
                        mammy to shorten the trousers legs by seven or eight inches."
                    Sam was fairly dancing for joy, and as he mounted his mule for the homeward journey, he began to
                        sing a dismal ditty which he had composed  as an expression of his
                        feelings at the time of his master's first departure from Warlock to serve as a
                        soldier. Unhappily only a fragment of the song remains to us. It began:
                    
                        "Dey ain't no sun in de mawning,
                        Dey ain't no moon shine in de night,
                        'Case the war's done come an' de mahstah's done
                            gone,
                        Fer to git hisse'f killed in de fight.
                    
                    
                        "Oh, Moses!
                        Holy Moses!
                        Can't you come back 'cross de ribber?
                        Can't you let Gabrel blow his horn?"
                    
                    What lines were to follow, and what words rhymed with "ribber" and
                        "horn," we are not permitted to know. For at this point, Sam, whose
                        self-education included a considerable proficiency in profanity, broke off his singing, reined
                        in his mule, and said:
                    "Dat's too dam dismal fer de 'casion!" Then
                        addressing the mule, he reproachfully asked:
                    "What for you done let me sing dat? Don' you know Sam's a-gwine to de
                        wah wid Mas' Baillie?"
                    As the mule made no reply, the conversation ceased at this point, and the remainder of the
                        homeward journey was made in complete silence.
                
                
                
                    XV
                    AGATHA'S VENTURE
                    
                    AFTER a month or two of cautious correspondence with friends and others who were to aid her in
                        carrying out her purpose, Agatha Ronald set out one day, and drove with Martha, her maid, to
                        Winchester, where she had friends. After a week's stay there, she made her way to a
                        little town on the Potomac, again taking up quarters with friends.
                    From this point, she communicated through her friends with intimates of theirs who lived in
                        Maryland. Finally she had arrangements made by which a succession of houses was open to her, all
                        of them the homes of people strongly in sympathy with the South. But she must first manage to
                        get through the Federal lines unobserved, and in this a Federal commander unwittingly aided her.
                        He threw a small force one day into the little town in which she was staying,  meaning to hold possession of it as a part of the loosely drawn
                        lines on the upper river. This left Agatha within Federal domaina young gentlewoman visiting
                        friends, and in no way attracting attention to herself. Presently she moved on into Maryland,
                        and by short stages made her way to the house of a very ardent Southern family, near the
                        Pennsylvania border. From there it was easy for her to go to Harrisburg, and thence by rail to
                        Baltimore.
                    The chief purpose of her journey was now practically accomplished. She had established what she
                        called her "underground railroad," with a multitude of stations, and a very
                        roundabout route. But it would serve its purpose all the better for that, she thought, as the
                        chief condition of its successful operation was that its existence should at no time be
                        suspected.
                    In Baltimore, proceeding with the utmost caution, she put herself into indirect communication
                        with a large number of "Dixie girls"as young women in that city whose hearts
                        were with the South were called. It would not do for her to meet these young women personally.
                        That might excite suspicion, especially as most of them  had
                        brothers in the Southern army. But through others she succeeded in organising them secretly into
                        a band prepared to do her work.
                    That work was the purchase of medicineschiefly morphine and quinineand the smuggling of them
                        through the lines into the Confederacy for the use of the armies there. For it is one of the
                        barbarisms of war which civilisation has not yet outgrown, that medicines, even those which are
                        imperatively necessary for the saving of life and the prevention of suffering, are held to be as
                        strictly contraband as gunpowder itself is.
                    Agatha's plan was to have her associates in Baltimore purchase medicines and surgical
                        appliances in that city and elsewherebuying only in small quantities in each case, in order to
                        avoid suspicion, but buying large quantities in the aggregateand forward them to her in Virginia
                        by way of her underground railroad; that is to say, passing them from hand to hand over the
                        route by which she had herself reached Baltimore.
                    Having perfected these arrangements, her next task was herself to get back to her home, whither
                        she did not mean to go empty-handed. She had gowns made for herself and Martha, using two  thicknesses of oiled silk as interlining. Between these she
                        bestowed as much morphia as could be placed there without attracting attention.
                    This done, she was ready for her return journey, which presented extraordinary difficulty. She
                        could not return by the way she had come, lest the purpose of her journey should be discovered,
                        and her plans for the future be thwarted. She must find some other way.
                    At first she thought of making her way southward to the lower reaches of the Potomac, and
                        depending upon chance for means of getting across the river there, but this was rendered
                        impracticable by the news that the Confederates had retired from their advanced outposts to
                        Manassas and Centreville, with the Fairfax Courthouse line as their extreme advance position.
                        This meant, of course, that they no longer held in any considerable force the posts along the
                        lower river. Moreover, Agatha learned that both the Potomac below Washington, and the navigable
                        part of the Rappahannock were closely patrolled now, by night and by day, by a numerous fleet of
                        big and little Federal war-ships. There seemed no course open to her but to try in some way to
                        get  through to Stuart's pickets, if in any way or at any
                        risk she could manage that. That she determined to attempt.
                    Her first step was to visit friends on the Potomac above Washington. There she learned minutely
                        what the situation was. With some difficulty she secured permission to go as a guest to a house
                        near Falls Church, in Virginia. She had hoped there to find Confederate picket-posts, and to
                        work her way to some one of them by stealth or strategy, or by boldly taking risks. She found
                        instead that the nearest Confederate outpost was at Fairfax Court-house, nine miles away, while
                        the inner Federal lines lay on the route from Falls Church to Vienna, and stretched both ways
                        from those points. Stuart was no longer at Mason's and Munson's Hills. With
                        the approach of winter the Confederates had retired to their fortified line, and Stuart, with
                        the cavalry, had established himself at Camp Cooper and other camps, three or four miles in rear
                        of the Fairfax Court-house line, which now constituted his extreme advance.
                    Moreover, the Federal army, under McClellan's skilled and vigilant command, had been
                        completely  reorganised, drilled, disciplined, and converted from
                        the chaotic mass described in his reportquoted in a former chapterinto an alert and trustworthy
                        army, destined, during later campaigns, to cover itself with glory. At present, McClellan, who
                        had no thought of advancing upon Centreville and Manassas, where the Confederates were strongly
                        fortified, was at any rate manifesting spirit by continually pressing the Confederate outposts,
                        and now and then making considerable demonstrations against them.
                    His inner picket-lines, as already explained, were drawn very near the house in which Agatha was
                        sojourning. His advanced postswhere the skirmishing was frequentwere along the Fairfax
                        Court-house line. Between these two lines lay eight or ten miles of thick and difficult country,
                        held by the Federals, and scouted over every day, but not regularly picketed.
                    Thus, instead of a mile or two of difficulty, Agatha had before her ten miles of trouble, with a
                        prospect of worse at the end of it.
                    Time and extraordinary care were necessary to meet these new difficulties. Agatha's
                        first problem was to find out all she could of facts,  to gather
                        exact and trustworthy information. In this endeavour she had a shrewdly intelligent coadjutor in
                        Martha.
                    By way of avoiding suspicionfor the family with whom she was staying were known to be strongly
                        Southern in their sympathies, and the Federal officers had begun to understand the devoted
                        loyalty of the negroes to the families that owned themAgatha established Martha in a cabin of
                        her own a mile or more from the house. There Martha posed as a free negro woman, who was
                        disposed to make a living for herself by selling fried chickens, biscuits, and pies to the
                        Federal soldiers on the interior picket-lines, and a little later to those posted farther in
                        advance.
                    Martha was a sagacious as well as a discreet person. At first she showed a timid reluctance to go
                        farther toward the front than the inner lines from Falls Church to Vienna. While peddling her
                        wares there, she took pains to learn all the foot-paths, and the location of all the
                        picket-posts in that region. Then little by little she allowed herself to be persuaded to go
                        farther toward the outer lines, for the soldiers found her  fried
                        chicken and her biscuits and her pies particularly alluring.
                    It was only after she had mastered both the topography of the country between, and the exact
                        methods of its military occupation, that she so far overcame her assumed timidity as to push on
                        with her basket to the picket-posts immediately in front of Fairfax Court-house itself. She
                        raised her prices as she went, lest by selling out her stock in trade she should leave herself
                        no excuse for going to the extreme front at all. For the same reason she came at last to pass by
                        many posts where she had formerly had good customers, retaining her wares professedly for the
                        sake of the higher prices that the men at the front gladly paid for something better to eat than
                        the contents of their haversacks.
                    Within a week or two Martha had learned and reported to her mistress quite all that any officer
                        on either side knew of the country, its roads, its foot-paths, its difficulties, and the
                        opportunities it afforded. In the middle of every night, Martha made her way to her mistress, or
                        her mistress made her way to Martha, until at last, Agatha, who had directed her inquiries, was
                        equipped with  all necessary information, and ready for her
                        supreme endeavour. It involved much of danger and incredible difficulty. But the courageous
                        young woman was prepared to meet both danger and difficulty with an equable mind. She knew now
                        whither she was going and how, but the journey through a difficult country must be made wholly
                        on foot and wholly by night.
                    Agatha was ready for the ordeal. As for Martha, the earth to the very ends of it held no terrors
                        that could cause even hesitation on her part in the service of her mistress.
                
                
                
                    XVI
                    CANISTER
                    
                    IT was a little after midnight when Agatha and her maid, stripped of all belongings that could
                        impede them on their way, set out on foot upon their perilous journey. Agatha was deliberately
                        exposing herself to far worse dangers than any that the soldier is called upon to brave in the
                        work of war. She could carry little in the way of food, and of course could not replenish her
                        supplies until she should succeed in entering the Confederate lines, if indeed that purpose were
                        not hopeless of accomplishment at all. But the danger of starvation which these conditions
                        involved, was the very least of the perils she must encounter. At any moment of her stealthy
                        progress she might be shot by a sentinel. Far worse than that, she might be seized with her
                        telltale medicines upon her person, while hiding within the forbidden lines of the enemy. In
                        that case,  there would be no question whatever as to her status
                        in military law, or as to her fate. If she should fall into the enemy's hands under
                        such circumstances, by forcible capture or even by voluntary surrender, she must certainly be
                        hanged as a spy. She was armed against that danger only by the possession of the means of
                        instant self-destruction,her little six-shooter.
                    It was comparatively easy for her to find her way during the first night, through the slender
                        interior picket-line, and into the forbidden region that lay between that and the outposts in
                        front. Every roadway leading toward the Confederate positions was, of course, securely guarded,
                        and all of them were thus completely closed to Agatha's use. She must steal through the
                        thickets of underbrush that lay between the roads, making such progress as she could without at
                        any time placing herself within sight or hearing of a sentinel. Sometimes this involved
                        prolonged waiting in constrained positions, and several times she narrowly missed discovery.
                    When morning came, the pair of women hid themselves between two logs that lay in a dense thicket,
                        and there they remained throughout the  daylight hours. There,
                        too, before noon, they consumed the last fragments of their food.
                    During the next night they made small progress. They succeeded, indeed, in crossing a deep and
                        muddy creek that lay in front of them, but it was only to find themselves confronted by a
                        roadway, which ran athwart their line of march, and which, on this night, at least, was heavily
                        picketed and constantly patrolled by scouting squads of cavalry.
                    Agatha crept on her hands and knees, and quite noiselessly, to a point from which she could make
                        out the situation, and there the pair remained in hiding among the weeds and bushes that skirted
                        an old and partially destroyed fence, until daylight came again.
                    With the daylight came a considerable thinning of the line of videttes in front, and toward
                        nightfall, after a day of toilsome crawling back and forth in search of a way of escape, the two
                        women succeeded in crossing the road unobserved. After crawling for a hundred yards or so beyond
                        the road, they hid themselves as securely as they could, and waited for night to come again.
                    
                    They were suffering the pangs of excessive hunger and thirst now, and gnawing roots and twigs by
                        way of appeasing the terrible craving. It was obvious to Agatha that this night must make an end
                        of her attempt in one way or another. She must reach the Confederate lines before the coming of
                        another day, or both she and her companion must perish of hunger, or surrender themselves and be
                        hanged. She suggested this thought to Martha, whose only answer was:
                    "Anyhow, you'se got your pistol, Miss Agatha."
                    There were still two miles or more to go before reaching the little patch of briars and young
                        chestnut-trees just in front of the Fairfax Courthouse village, which was Agatha's
                        objective. During her peddling trips, Martha had learned that Federal sharpshooters were thrown
                        into this thicket every night, usually between midnight and morning, for the purpose of annoying
                        the Confederate pickets, stationed not fifty yards away. She had learned, too, that nearly every
                        morning, about daylight, the Confederates were accustomed to rid themselves of the annoyance by
                        sending out a cavalry force to charge the  thicket and clear it of
                        its occupants. It was Agatha's plan to hide herself and her maid there, and be captured
                        by Stuart's men when they should come.
                    But she could not enter the bushes until the sharpshooters should be in position. Otherwise they
                        would be sure to discover her while placing themselves. As soon as the riflemen had crept to
                        their posts, Agatha, favoured by the unusual darkness of a thickly clouded night, crept to a
                        hiding-place just in rear of the men. There she and Martha lay upon the ground during long
                        hours, well-nigh famished, and suffering severely from cold, for the autumn was now well
                        advanced.
                    Unfortunately for Agatha's plan, the Confederates had adopted new methods for this
                        night. Instead of ordering cavalry to clear the thicket, they had decided to clear it with
                        canister. Accordingly, a battery of artillery had been ordered to the front, and bivouacked half
                        a mile in rear of Fairfax Court-house. Thence just before daylight two guns had been dragged
                        forward by prolonge ropes, and stationed under the trees of a little grove about fifty yards in
                        front of the  cover from which the Federal sharpshooters were
                        occasionally firing.
                    Just at dawn, these two guns suddenly and furiously opened upon the bushes with canister in
                        double charges.
                    The effect was terrific. The bushes were mown down as with a scythe, and it seemed impossible to
                        the two women that any human being should survive the iron hailstorm for a single minute. The
                        sharpshooters scurried away precipitately, one of them actually stumbling over Agatha's
                        prostrate form, which he probably took to be that of some comrade slain. But Agatha and her maid
                        remained, and the fearful fire continued. They remained because there was nothing else for them
                        to do. They could not retreat. They could not surrender. They were starving. They must go
                        forward or die.
                    Then the courage and daring of her race came to Agatha's soul, and she resolved to make
                        a last desperate attempt to save herself, not by running away from the fire,which would be worse
                        than useless,but by running into it. The danger in doing this was scarcely greater, in fact,
                        though it seemed so, than that involved in lying still,  but it
                        requires an extraordinary courage for one unarmed and not inspired by the desperate all-daring
                        spirit of battle, to rush upon guns that are belching canister in half-gallon charges, at the
                        rate of three or four times a minute.
                    The sharpshooters were completely gone now, and nothing lay between the young woman and her
                        friends except a canister-swept open space fifty yards in width. This the heroic girlbaffled of
                        all other resourcedetermined to dare. Directing Martha to follow her closely, she rose and in
                        the gray of the dawn ran like a deer toward the bellowing guns. Fortunately, some one at the
                        guns caught sight of the fleet-footed pair when they had covered about half the distance, and,
                        in the increasing light, saw them to be women. Instantly the order, "Cease
                        firing!" was given, and the clamorous cannon were hushed, but a heavy musketry fire
                        from the enemy broke forth just as Agatha and her maid fell exhausted between the guns. A voice
                        of command rang out:
                    "Pick up those women, quick, and carry them out of the fire!" Half a dozen of
                        the men responded, and strong arms carried the nearly lifeless women to a small depression just
                        in rear,  where they were screened from the now slowly slackening
                        shower of bullets.
                    When the fire had completely ceased, Captain Baillie Pegram ordered his guns, "By hand
                        to the rear," and rode back to inquire concerning his captives. It was then that he
                        discovered for the first time who the fugitives were, and the horror with which he realised what
                        he supposed to be the situation, set him reeling in his saddle.
                    He had heard nothing of Agatha's mission to the north, of course. He now knew only that
                        she had been hiding within the enemy's lines, and only one interpretation of that fact
                        seemed possible. Agatha Ronaldthe woman he loved, the woman upon whose integrity and
                        Virginianism he would have staked his life without a second thoughthad turned traitor! He did
                        not pause to ask himself how, in such a case, she had come to be in the thicket among the
                        sharpshooters. He was too greatly stunned to think of that, or otherwise to reason clearly.
                    Nor did he question her, except to ask if she or her maid had been wounded, and when she assured
                        him of their safety, he said:
                    "I don't know whether to thank God for that  or
                        not. It might have been better, perhaps, if both had fallen."
                    Agatha heard the remark, and understood in part at least the thought that lay behind it. But she
                        did not reply. She only said, feebly:
                    "We are starving."
                    "Bring two horses, quickly," Baillie commanded. "Lieutenant Mills,
                        take the guns back to the bivouac. Our work here is done."
                    Then turning to Agatha, he explained:
                    "We have no rations here; can you manage to ride as far as our bivouac? It is only half
                        a mile away, and we'll find something to eat there."
                    Agatha's exhaustion was so great that she could scarcely sit up, but she summoned all
                        her resolution and managed to hold herself in place on the McClellan saddle which alone was
                        available for her use. Martha was carried by the men on an improvised litter.
                    At the bivouac, no food was found except a pone or two of coarse corn bread and a few slices of
                        uncooked bacon. But the delicate girl and her maid devoured these almost greedily, eating the
                        bacon raw in soldier fashion, for, of course, no fires were allowed upon the picket-line.
                    
                    Food and rest quickly revived Agatha, and Baillie remembered certain very peremptory orders he
                        had received as to his course of procedure should "any woman whatever" come
                        into his lines.
                    "I must escort you presently to a safer place than this," he said.
                    "Am I to go under compulsion, Captain Pegram," the girl
                        asked, "or of my own accord?"
                    "With that," he answered, "I am afraid I have nothing to do. My sole
                        concern is to take you out of danger. It is not my business to ask you questions as to how you
                        have come into danger in a way so peculiar."
                    "And yet," she replied, "that is a matter that I suppose requires inquiry, and I am ready for the ordeal."
                    The moment she spoke that word, which was the fourth in the series that Stuart had given her, and
                        the one he had selected as a test for this day, Baillie Pegram flinched as if he had been
                        struck, while his face turned white. Hoping that her use of the word had been accidental, or
                        that the emphasis she had placed upon it had been unintended, he asked:
                    "What did you say?"
                    
                    "I said," she responded, very deliberately, "that I am ready for the
                            ORDEAL."
                    The look of consternation on Baillie's face deepened. Without replying, he walked away
                        in an agitation of mind which he felt must be hidden from others at all costs. Pacing back and
                        forth under screen of some bushes, he tried to think the matter out. Under his orders, he must
                        arrest Agatha and take her to Stuart, who had been more than usually anxious, as Baillie knew,
                        to capture this particular prisoner. But to do that, he felt, must mean Agatha's
                        disgrace and shameful death, and the staining of an ancient and honoured name. Yet what else
                        could he do?
                    "Would to God!" he exclaimed, under his breath, "that my canister had
                        done its work better!"
                    Then he fell into silence again, questioning himself in the vain hope of finding a way through
                        the blind wall of circumstances.
                    "Agatha," he thought, "has been with the enemy, and has been trying to
                        get back again in order to render them some further traitorous service. Stuart has obviously
                        learned all about the conspiracy in which she had been engaged. That  is why he has been so eager for her arrest. That is how he knew what signal-words
                        she would use in her endeavour to find some fellow conspirator among us. But why did she use the
                        word to me. Surely the conspiracy cannot have become so wide-spread among us that she deemed me a person likely to be engaged in it. Perhaps she spoke for other ears than
                        mine, hoping to find a traitor among those who stood by.
                    "And the worst of it is that I still love her. Knowing her treachery and her shame, I
                        still cannot change my attitude of mind. What shall I do? I could turn traitor for her sake. I
                        could manage to secure her escape, and then give myself up, confess my crime, and accept the
                        shameful death that it would merit."
                    For the space of a minute he lingered over this idea of supreme self-sacrifice with which the
                        devil seemed to be luring him to destruction. Then he cast it aside, and reproached himself for
                        having let it enter his mind.
                    "No love is worth a man's honour," he thought. "A better way
                        would be to kill her myself, and then commit suicide. No, not that.
                    
                    
                        
                            "'I love you, Agatha Ronald'"
                        
                    
                    
                    Suicide is the coward's way out; and killing her would only reveal and emphasise her
                        crime."
                    Just then one of his men approached him, and announced that orders had come for the
                        battery's return to its camp. Baillie walked back to the bivouac, and said to his
                        lieutenant:
                    "Take command and march to the camp at once. I have some personal orders to
                        execute."
                    With that promptitude which all men serving under Stuart learned to regard as one of the cardinal
                        virtues, the lieutenant had the battery mounted and in motion within a few minutes. Not until it
                        had made the turn in the road did Baillie approach Agatha. Then he faced her, and staring with
                        strained and bloodshot eyes into her face, he abruptly said:
                    "I love you, Agatha Ronald. In spite of what you have done, that fact remains. I love
                        you!"
                    "This is neither the time nor place in which to tell me so," she interrupted.
                        Then, after a brief moment of hesitation, she broke down and burst into tears. It was only a
                        very few moments before she controlled herself, and forced herself to speak clearly, though she
                        did so with manifest difficulty.
                    
                    "Please forget what you have just said," she began. "I realise your
                        position. I understand. I think I know what you have been thinking. You have contemplated a
                        crime for my sake,the highest crime of all. For my sake you have been tempted to sacrifice not
                        only your lifewhich to a brave man means littlebut your honour, which is more precious to a
                        brave man than all else in the world. Tell me, please, and tell me quickly, that you have put
                        that temptation asidethat you have utterly repudiated the horrible thought."
                    "I have done so certainly," he replied, in a hard voice. "But why do
                        you care so much for that?"
                    "Why? Because your honourall honouris precious to me, and I could not respect you if you
                        had consented to the thought of dishonour even in your mind. I should loathe and detest your
                        soul if for my sake or any sake you could have done that. No, don't interrupt me,
                        please," seeing that he was trying to speak, "let me finish. I, too, am under
                        orders, one of which is to keep my lips sealed. But under such circumstances as these I may
                        disobey my orders  without dishonour. I am not a soldier. Let me
                        tell you a little, then, so that you may not suffer on my account. No harm will come to me when
                        you take me, as you must, to General Stuart. I am here by his own orders, and I was over
                        there," motioning toward the enemy's lines," with his full knowledge
                        and consent. There. That is all I may tell you."
                    The strong man turned deathly pale under the shock of the relief that the young woman's
                        words brought to his mind. For a moment Agatha thought that he would fall, but recovering
                        himself, he ejaculated, "Thank God!" and those were the only words he spoke
                        for a space.
                    He presently ordered the horses brought, and helped Agatha to mount.
                    "Can you manage to ride a McClellan saddle?" he asked. "There is no
                        other to be had."
                    "I suppose not," Agatha answered, with returning spirits. "I suppose
                        the quartermaster's department does not issue side-saddles to the mounted artillery for
                        the use of errant damsels whom they capture. But I can do very well on a cavalry
                        saddle."
                
                
                
                    XVII
                    AT HEADQUARTERS
                    
                    AGATHA was well-nigh exhausted by the terrible strain she had endured. She could scarcely sustain
                        herself in the saddle, as she and Baillie set out, her maid riding a-pillion behind her. She
                        would have likedif she had dared risk itto keep the silence of extreme weariness during the
                        journey to Stuart's headquarters, two or three miles away, but in fact she talked
                        incessantly, in a hard, constrained voice, limiting the conversation strictly to external
                        matters. She asked her companion about his battery, the number and character of his guns, how
                        many men he might have under his command, the nature of his duties, and many other things,
                        chatter about which served as a substitute for the more personal conversation that she was
                        determined to avoid. She was fencing for position, and her purpose was plain enough to Baillie
                        Pegram, but  at the end of the ride the girl herself was more
                        inscrutably a riddle to him than she had been before. For just as they arrived, and when it was
                        too late for him to say any word in reply, she suddenly turned to him, and said:
                    "Before we part, Captain Pegram, I want to thank you for all you have done for me, and
                        still more for what you have feltI mean your wish to save me. I am very grateful, but"
                    There she broke off, leaving him to torture himself with almost maddening conjectures as to what
                        should have followed that bewildering "but."
                    At that moment Stuart, who had heard of the capture and was waiting, came hurriedly from the
                        piazza of his headquarters to greet and welcome the arriving pair. With strong arms he lifted
                        the girl from her saddle and placed her on her feet, as he might have done with an infant child.
                        For he was a giant in strength, and his muscles were as obedient to his will as were the
                        troopers who so eagerly followed him in every fray.
                    Seeing the girl's bedraggled condition, and understanding how sorely shaken her nerves
                        must  be, he made no reference to the circumstances of her coming,
                        but cheerily said:
                    "I am doubly fortunate, Miss Agatha, in having you again for a visitor, and in having
                        the ladies of my household with me just now; for God bless these Virginia women,"
                        addressing this part of his remark to Captain Pegram," they are always with us when we
                        need them."
                    With that he hurried Agatha into the house, and placed her in feminine charge, with orders that
                        she should have food and rest and sleep, and especially that she should not be annoyed by any
                        questionings until such time as she should herself desire to speak with him.
                    "You will remain with us to dinner, Captain Pegram, if you please. There are matters
                        about which I wish to talk with you."
                    When the two were left alone, he said:
                    "Tell me, now, all you know about how Miss Agatha became your prisonerthe details, I
                        mean."
                    When Baillie had finished the narrative, expressing wonder that the girl had passed unharmed
                        through that hailstorm of canister, Stuart said, simply:
                    
                    "I'm glad your gun practice was no better."
                    "So am I," the young man answered.
                    It was not until late in the afternoon that Stuart was summoned to meet his guest, who was also
                        his prisoner. She had in the meantime divested herself and her maid of their burden, and the
                        precious drug had been carefully packed for shipment under guard to Richmond. She had also slept
                        long and well after her breakfast, and was now as fresh and as full of spirit as if she had
                        known no hardship, and passed through no danger.
                    Before the dinner hour, Stuart had taken pains to send away all the members of his staff, each
                        upon some errand manufactured for the occasion. At dinner there was no one present but his own
                        family, Agatha, and Captain Baillie Pegram.
                    Stuart was all eagerness to learn not only the results, but the details of the perilous journey,
                        and to that end he required Agatha to begin at the beginning and relate each day's
                        experience. She did so, explaining the arrangements she had made for her underground railway,
                        and telling him of a plan she had formed to give to that line a number of termini at various
                        points in  Virginia, each under charge of some trusty
                        "Dixie girl," in order that there might be no interruption of the traffic,
                        whatever the future movements of the two armies might be.
                    "It's the very crookedest railroad you ever heard of, General," she
                        added, when her account of it was finished, "but I expect it to do a considerable
                        traffic. I am to be its general freight agent, and I have impressed all my agents with the fact
                        that the preservation of our secret is of far greater importance than the safe delivery of any
                        one consignment of goods. They will take plenty of time at every step, and not risk discovery
                        for the sake of speed."
                    "That is excellent. But I wish I had suggested to you to make some arrangement by which
                        you might"
                    "O, I did that," she interrupted. "I took a leaf out of your book. Of
                        course, it will often be possible to get little letters through, but letters are very
                        dangerousat least, when they say anything. So I have taken your signal-words as my model, and
                        laboriously constructed a system by which I can say the most dangerous things  in a letter without seeming to say anything at all."
                    "By signal-words?"
                    "Yes, partly, but more in other ways."
                    "For example?"
                    "Well, if I send a foolish, chattering girl's note about nothing, and I happen
                        to write it in a 'back hand,' that fact will tell my correspondent what I want
                        to tell her. So if I write in an ordinary hand, that will mean something quite different. In the
                        same way, if I write, 'My dear Mary,' it will signify one thing, while
                        'Dear Mary' will mean another; I've arranged fourteen different forms
                        of address, each having its own particular meaning. The punctuation will mean something, too,
                        and the way I sign myself, and the colour of my ink, and the occasional slight misspelling of a
                        wordall these and a dozen other things are carefully arranged for, so that I can tell a friend
                        pretty nearly anything I please, while seeming only to tell her the colour of my new gownif I
                        ever have a new gown againor anything else of the kind that girls are fond of writing letters
                        about."
                    "But you and all your correspondents must  have copies of
                        your code for all this. Isn't there great danger that one or another of them may be
                        discovered?"
                    The girl laughed before answering.
                    "Even you, General Stuart, must have found out that it is difficult to discover what is
                        in a young woman's mind. This code exists nowhere else in the world. We've all
                        learned it by heart, and can recite it backward or forward or even sideways. No word of it has
                        ever been written down on paper, or ever will be. You gentlemen are fond of saying that we women
                        cannot keep a secret. You shall see how well we keep this."
                    "O, as to that," answered Stuart, "I never shared any such belief.
                        Why, women keep secrets so well that we never know even what they think of us. Is not that so,
                        Captain Pegram?"
                    "Yes, and perhaps it is fortunate for us, too, sometimes."
                    "But I did betray a secret to Captain Pegram this morning," Agatha continued,
                        speaking gravely now. "He seemed so troubled at having to arrest me under the
                        circumstances in which I seemed to have placed myself, that I relieved  his mind by telling him I was acting under your orders, or, at least, with your
                        consent."
                    "Perhaps you'd like to prefer charges against the captain? I dare say he was
                        very stern and inconsiderate."
                    Instantly the girl flushed, and speaking with unusual seriousness, she answered:
                    "I beg to assure you, General Stuart, that Captain Pegram was altogether generous and
                        kind to mefar more so than I had a right to expect. I can never sufficiently thank
                        him."
                    To Baillie, this speech was inscrutable and bewildering. It might mean one thing, or anothermuch
                        or littleaccording to the interpretation put upon the words. It might refer only to
                        Baillie's care for her physical comfort and safety, or, as Baillie scarcely dared
                        believe, it might obliquely include in its intent, an acknowledgment of the passionate
                        declaration of love that he had been betrayed into making. It might be interpreted to mean that
                        the words surprised from his lips were not unwelcome to her who had heard them. She had bidden
                        him forget what he had said, but might it not be that she  herself
                        remembered and was not displeased with the recollection?
                    He resolved to ask her for the answer to that riddle at the earliest possible moment, but for the
                        present he flushed crimson and kept silent.
                    Stuart, however, had accomplished his purpose. He had found out, or believed that he had found
                        out, what he wished to know concerning the attitude of these two toward each other, and he was
                        mightily pleased with the discovery. He abruptly changed the course of the conversation.
                    "When would you like to go to your home, Miss Agatha?"
                    "I should like to set out early to-morrow, General, if I mayif I am released from
                        arrest."
                    "O, I shall not release you yet. You are much too dangerous a conspirator for that. I
                        shall send you home under guard, and I have selected Captain Pegram to be your safe-keeper. I
                        shall send him with you, under orders to remain at Willoughby for a week, keeping you under
                        close surveillance. If at the end of that time he finds you sufficiently subdued, he will have
                        orders to put you on parole, and return to his command. As he and you are 'almost
                        strangers,' he will be  a safer judge of the propriety of
                        releasing you than any other officer I could send for that purpose."
                    The two were sorely embarrassed by this announcement, coming as it did without warning to either.
                        Neither knew what to say, or whether the arrangement was welcome or unwelcome to the other. The
                        sudden announcement of it, at any rate, was very embarrassing to both, and Pegram received it
                        with a feeling of consternation for the moment. In the next instant, he realised the opportunity
                        it would give him to renew the morning's conversation, and to learn definitely what
                        Agatha's attitude toward him was to be after such a declaration as he had made. For
                        whatever else happens, an avowal of that kind, made with such earnestness, never fails to work
                        some change in a true woman's mind and soul. Baillie managed, with some difficulty, to
                        say:
                    "I will be glad to carry out your orders, General."
                    Agatha said nothing. What she thought and felt, it would be idle to inquire.
                
                
                
                    XVIII
                    A BRUSH AT THE FRONT
                    
                    A SITUATION which might have become embarrassing, had it been prolonged, was relieved at that
                        moment by the arrival of a courier who had come in hot haste with messages from the front.
                    The enemy was moving upon Fairfax Courthouse in three columns and in strong force. The light of
                        battle came into Stuart's eyes as he received the news, and he issued hurried orders to
                        his staff-officers as one after another they came up at a gallop. To Agatha he said:
                    "Remain here, you and the other ladies, unless orders come for you to leave. I must
                        borrow Captain Pegram from your service for a time, if I may."
                    "Gladly!" answered the girl, and her tone sorely puzzled Baillie Pegram. But
                        there was  no time for speculation upon its meaning, for Stuart
                        turned to him and ordered:
                    "Take your battery down the Vienna road, and act with Fitz Lee or whomever else you find
                        there. Move rapidly, but spare your horses all you can."
                    Then hurriedly turning to the couriers and staff-officers who stood by their horses, he issued
                        orders with the rapidity of one who recites the alphabet or the multiplication table. Within the
                        space of two minutes he had assigned every brigade and regiment under his command to its post
                        and duty, and had sent to General Johnston at Centreville a request that infantry supports might
                        be moved forward and held within call in case of need. A minute later he was a-gallop for the
                        front.
                    Baillie had preceded him, and even before the general had reached Fairfax Court-house,
                        Pegram's battery was hurrying down the Vienna road, with the First and Fourth Regiments
                        of Virginia cavalry just in front. It was the work of a very few moments to form these forces
                        and others that were coming up, into a line of battle, facing the enemy, but by the time they
                        were in  position, Stuart himself came up and took command.
                    "Tell Captain Pegram," he said to a staff-officer, "to advance his
                        battery to the brow of the hill yonder, and open a vigorous fire upon whatever he finds in
                        front. Order Colonel Jones of the First Regiment to take position immediately in rear of the
                        battery, and support it at all hazards."
                    Within less time than it takes to write the words, Baillie Pegram's guns were hurling
                        shrapnel into the face of the enemy, whose response was menacingly slow and deliberate.
                    "That looks," said Stuart, presently, to one who rode by his side, "as
                        if they meant business this time. Send orders to the infantry in rear to form a second line, and
                        be ready in case we are beaten back."
                    It should be explained that during the autumn of 1861 McClellan sent out many expeditions, each
                        wearing the aspect of an advance in force against the Confederate position at Centreville. These
                        movements were in reality intended as threats, and nothing more. The chief purpose of them was
                        to keep the Confederates uneasy,  and at the same time to accustom
                        the Federal volunteers to stand fire and to contemplate battle in earnest as the serious
                        business of the soldier.
                    These advances were made always with a brave show of infantry, cavalry, and artillery, and with
                        all the seeming of the vanguard of an army intending battle. But after a heavy skirmish the
                        columns were always withdrawn, leaving only picket-lines at the front. McClellan was not yet
                        ready to offer battle. It was during that period that President Lincoln, weary of
                        McClellan's delay and inactivity, sarcastically said that if the general had no use for
                        the army, he (Lincoln) would like to borrow it for awhile.
                    But this day's movement differed in some respects from those that had gone before. It
                        involved a much heavier force, for one thing, and the proportion of artillery to the other arms
                        was greater. Still more significant was the fact that the commander of the expedition, instead
                        of making the customary dash, threw forward a heavy skirmish-line, holding his main body in
                        reserve, and otherwise conducting himself after the fashion of a general sent to hold the front
                        with as  little fighting as might be, until a much heavier force
                        could be brought up.
                    It was Stuart's duty, as the commander of the cavalry, to find out as quickly as
                        possible what lay behind the lines that confronted him, in order that he might know and report
                        precisely what and how much the movement meant. To that end he sent for Colonel Jones, of the
                        First Regiment, and when that most unmilitary-looking of hard fighters presented himself in his
                        faded yellow coat, the pot hat which he always wore at that time, and with his peculiar nasal
                        drawl, Stuart gave the order:
                    "Take your right company and ride to the right around the flank of the enemy's
                        line. Find out what it amounts to. See if there are baggage and ammunition trains in rear, and
                        if they mean business. The whole thing is probably as hollow as a gourd, but it may be
                        otherwise. Go and find out."
                    In the meantime, Stuart had dismounted a part of his forces, and ordered them with their carbines
                        to form a skirmish-line on foot in front. The rest of his menthree thousand stalwart young
                        cavaliers, mounted upon horses that had  pedigrees behind themwere
                        drawn up in double ranks wherever there was space for a regiment, a company, or a squad of them
                        to stand.
                    Then came half an hour of waiting. The enemy had thrown additional infantry forward, and the
                        skirmishing grew steadily heavier, as if the Federal skirmish-line were being reinforced from
                        moment to moment.
                    In fact, that heavy advance-line embraced all there was of the Federal movement, as Colonel Jones
                        discovered, when with a single company of horsemen he gained the enemy's rear. There
                        were no baggage or provision or ammunition trains to indicate a serious purpose of giving
                        battle.
                    The captain of the company which Colonel Jones had taken with him on this mission of discovery,
                        was a reticent person, but a man of quick wits, ready resource, and a daring that always had a
                        relish of humour in it. When Colonel Jones suggested a return march around the enemy's
                        left flank, the captain asked:
                    "Why not take a short cut?" and when asked for his meaning, answered:
                    "It's an egg-shell, that line. The quickest  way
                        of letting Stuart know the fact, it seems to me, would be to break through right here. He
                        won't be long in getting to windward of the situation when he sees us coming."
                    The suggestion was instantly acted upon, with a startling dramatic result. With a yell that made
                        them seem a regiment of howling demons, the fifty or sixty men charged upon the rear of the line
                        and broke through it. Even before the head of their little column showed itself on the farther
                        side, their yells had made sufficient report of the facts to the alert mind of Jeb Stuart. He
                        instantly led his entire force forward to the charge.
                    There was a clatter of hoofs, a clangour of sabres, a rattle of small arms, and a roar from
                        Baillie Pegram's guns. Everything was shrouded in an impenetrable cloud of dust and
                        powder-smoke.
                    The enemy stood fast for a time, resisting obstinately and fairly checking the tremendous onset.
                        It was not until a brigade of infantry and three full batteries had been brought into action
                        that the Federals gave way. Even then, they retreated in orderly fashion, with no suggestion of
                        panic or loss of cohesion.
                    
                    "George B. McClellan has at last got his army into fighting shape," commented
                        Stuart, when all was over. "He's going to give us trouble from this time
                        forth."
                    The Federals were in full retreat, but their steadiness did not encourage Stuart to send small
                        forces in pursuit. He contented himself with advancing his line half a mile for purposes of
                        observation, after which, as the night was falling, he ordered a general return of his regiments
                        to their encampments.
                    When all was over, there were found to be many empty saddles in Stuart's command. Among
                        them was that which Baillie Pegram had ridden during the morning's journey with Agatha
                        Ronald.
                
                
                
                    XIX
                    AGATHA'S RESOLUTION
                    
                    THE reports which came to Stuart from the several commands that evening included one from the
                        senior lieutenant of Baillie Pegram's battery. After reading it, Stuart took Agatha
                        aside, and said:
                    "I have news which it will not be pleasant for you to hear. Captain Pegram is badly
                        wounded, and in the hands of the enemy."
                    The girl paled to the lips, but controlled herself, and replied in a voice constrained but
                        steady:
                    "Tell me about it, Generalall of it, please."
                    "I'll tell you all that is known. Captain Pegram is an unusually energetic
                        officer, with a bad habit of getting himself wounded. His battery to-day was in the extreme
                        advance, but it seems that a little hill just in front of him interfered with the fire of one of
                        his guns, and so he advanced with that piece to the crest of  the
                        mound. At that moment the enemy made a dash at that point, and it became necessary to retire the
                        gun to prevent its capture. Pegram gave orders to that effect, and they were executed. But
                        almost as the orders left his lips, he fell from his horse with a bullet-hole through his body.
                        His men tried to bring him off, but that involved the risk of losing the gun, so he peremptorily
                        ordered them to save the gun and leave him where he lay. The enemy's line swarmed over
                        the little hill, and when our men recovered it, Pegram was nowhere to be found. The enemy had
                        evidently carried him to the rear to care for him as a wounded prisoner."
                    "Can anything be done?" the girl asked, still with an apparent calm that would
                        have deceived a less sagacious observer than Stuart.
                    "I could send a flag of truce to-morrow to ask concerning him, but it would be of no
                        use. You see the enemy refuses as yet to recognise our rights as belligerents, and will not
                        communicate with us in proper form. Their answer would come back addressed to me, but carefully
                        lacking all indication of my character as an officer in the Confederate army. Under my orders I
                        could  not receive a communication so addressed. It would be of no
                        use, therefore, to inquire, and in any case we could not secure his exchange, as we have now no
                        exchange cartel in force. I do not see that we can do anything."
                    The young woman stood silent for a full minute, while Stuart looked at her, full of an admiration
                        for the courage she was manifesting. At last she asked:
                    "General, will you send to the camp of Captain Pegram's battery, and bid his
                        servant report here to me at once?"
                    For reply Stuart called Corporal Haganthe swarthy giant who had charge of his couriersand ordered
                        him to send a courier on Agatha's mission without delay.
                    Half an hour later Sam presented himself with eyes red from weeping, and Agatha proceeded at once
                        to business.
                    "You care a great deal for your master, don't you, Sam?"
                    "Kyar for Mas' Baillie? Ain't I his nigga? An' ain't
                        he de mastah of Warlock? Kyar for him? Why, Mis' Agatha, I'se ready to lay
                        down  an' die dis heah very minute 'case
                        he's done got hisse'f shot an' captured."
                    "Then you are willing to take some risks for his sake?"
                    "Sho' as shootin' I is. Yes, sho'er'n
                        shootin', 'case shootin' ain't always sho'.
                        Jes' you tell me how to do anything for Mas' Baillie, an' then bet
                        all the money you done got, an' put your mortal soul into de bet, dat Sam'll
                        face de very debil hisse'f to carry out yer 'structions."
                    "I believe you, Sam, and I'm going to trust you. You will go with me to
                        Willoughby tomorrow. We'll start soon in the morning and get there before night. From
                        there I'm going to send you north to find your master. I'll tell you how to do
                        it. When you find him, you are to stay with him and nurse him, no matter where he is. And when
                        he gets well enough, you must find some way of setting him free from the hospital so that he can
                        make his way back to Virginia again."
                    "But, Mis' Agatha, how's I to"
                    "Never mind the details now. I'll tell you about all that when I get my plans
                        ready. I'll tell you everything you must do and how to do  it, so far as I can, and you must depend on your wits for the rest. You're pretty
                        quick, I think."
                    "Yes'm; anyhow I kin see through a millstone ef there's a hole through
                        it. But, Mis' Agatha, is you sho' 'nuff gwine to tell me how to
                        fin' Mas' Baillie an' take kyar o' him?"
                    Agatha reassured him, and sent him off to sleep in order to be ready for their early start in the
                        morning. Then she joined Stuart and asked him:
                    "Did you pick up any prisoners near the point where Captain Pegram fell?"
                    "I really don't know. Why?"
                    "Why, if you did you'd know to what command they belonged, and that would help
                        me."
                    "Help you? Why, what are you planning?"
                    "To find Captain Pegram."
                    "But how?"
                    "Through my agents,and Sam, his body-servant."
                    "O, I see. Your underground railroad is to have a passenger traffic. I'll find
                        out what you wish to know. And if you'd like I'll have Sam passed through our
                        lines, after which he can pretend to be a runaway."
                    
                    "I thought of that," Agatha answered," but it will not do. I must send
                        him through my friends. You see in Maryland he'll require a slave's pass from
                        a master, and my friends will be his masters, one after another. Besides, they will help me find
                        out in what hospital Captain Pegram is. I've thought it all out. I must first prepare
                        my friends for Sam's coming. With your permission I'll take him with me to
                        Willoughby to-morrow."
                    "You are a wonderful women!"
                    That is all that Stuart said, but it sufficiently suggested the admiration he felt for her
                        courage, her resourcefulness, and her womanly devotion. Bidding her call upon him for any
                        assistance she might need in carrying out her plans, he dismissed her for the night, ordering
                        her to go to sleep precisely as he might have ordered a soldier to go to his tent. But Agatha
                        did not obey as the soldier would have done. She went to bed, indeed, but she could not sleep.
                        Her nerves were all a-quiver as the result of the trying experiences to which she had been
                        subjected, until now her excited brain simply would not sink into quietude. She lay hour after
                        hour staring into the darkness,  thinking, thinking, thinking. She
                        remembered the words that suffering on her account had wrung from Baillie Pegram that morning at
                        the bivouac, and she bitterly reproached herself for having given him no worthier answer than a
                        command to forget what he had said. She knew now with what measure of devotion this man loved
                        her, and she knew something else, too, as she lay there in the darkness face to face with her
                        own soul. She knew now that she loved Baillie Pegram with all that was best in her proud and
                        passionate nature. That truth confronted her. It was "naked and not ashamed."
                        Her conscience scourged her for what she regarded as her heartlessness and frivolity in putting
                        aside his declaration of love with the false pretence that it found no response in her own soul.
                    "I might at least have thanked him," she thought. "I might at least
                        have said to him 'there is no longer war between me and thee.' And now he lies
                        dead perhaps, or on a bed of suffering,a wounded prisoner in the hands of the enemy. All that I
                        can now do is to search him out and send Sam to nurse and comfort him." Then a new
                        thought came to her." That is not
                         all that I can do. Shame upon me for thinking so, even for a
                        moment. I can go to him myself, and I will, if God lets him live long enough. I'll take
                        Sam with me. He can be very helpful in the search, with his sharp wits and the freedom from
                        suspicion which his black face will secure him."
                    The dawn was breaking now, and a score of bugles were musically sounding the reveille in the
                        camps round about. Agatha rose quickly, and without summoning her weary maid, plunged her face
                        into a basin of cold water half a dozen times. Then seeing in her little mirror how hollow-eyed
                        and haggard she was, she wetted a towel and flagellated herself with it till the colour came
                        back and her nerves lost their tremulousness.
                    So great a transformation did this treatment work, that Stuart complimented her upon her
                        freshness of face when she appeared at the breakfast-table. He had meanwhile secured for her
                        definite information as to the Federal command that had made Pegram prisoner. He had also
                        managed in some way to secure a side-saddle for her to ride upon, and a squad of cavalrymen,  under command of a sergeant, was waiting outside to be her escort
                        on her journey.
                    "Thank you, General, for giving me so good a mount," she said, glancing with a
                        practised eye at the lean but powerful animal provided for her use."
                    "You should have a better one, if a better were to be had. You deserve it. By the way,
                        you need not send the horse back by the escort. He will not be needed here, for a time at
                        least."
                    Agatha looked at him, and then at the animal again, this time recognising it as the one that
                        Baillie Pegram had ridden by her side twenty-four hours before.
                    "He belongs to Captain Pegram, I believe," she answered.
                    "Yes, his second horse, and he is specially careful of him."
                    "I'll see that the animal is well cared for," answered the girl,
                        "until"
                    She did not finish the sentence, and Stuart turned away, pretending not to see the tears that
                        stood beneath her eyelids.
                
                
                
                    XX
                    TWO HOME-COMINGS
                    
                    NEWS of Agatha's safe return to Virginia had been sent to Colonel Archer by a courier,
                        on the morning of her arrival at Stuart's headquarters, and the octogenarian promenaded
                        up and down the porch all the next day, during her homeward journey.
                    He had greatly grieved to have his "ladybird" undertake her late perilous
                        enterprise at all. But with him at least Agatha was accustomed to have her way, and moreover the
                        spirit of the old soldier was strong within him still, so that he was intensely in sympathy with
                        Agatha's courageous purpose to render such service as a woman might to the cause that
                        both had at heart.
                    But Agatha had a harder task before her now. Remembering the heart-broken tone in which he had
                        bidden her good-bye on the former occasion, and easily imagining the suffering he must have  endured during her absence, both from loneliness and from
                        apprehension for her safety, she thought with something like terror of her new necessity of
                        leaving him again, almost in the very hour of his joy at her return. For it was her resolute
                        purpose to set out again within a very few days,as soon, indeed, as she could feel confidence
                        that her preliminary letters would reach their destination before her own arrival there.
                    There were other matters that troubled her, too. She must tell her Chummie the reason for her
                        second journey, and that would be a distressing thing for her to do. She must tell him
                        franklyfor she would never in the least trifle with truth, especially in dealing with himthat
                        she had learned to love Baillie Pegram, and that she had in effect put it out of possibility
                        that Baillie Pegram should ever ask for knowledge of that fact.
                    To a woman of her sensitively proud nature, such a confession, even to her grandfather, seemed
                        almost shameful. She shrank from the very thought of it, and flushed crimson every time it came
                        to her mind during that long day's ride.  Yet not for one
                        moment did she falter in her determination to undergo the ordeal. Not for one moment did she
                        entertain a thought of evading the painful confession, or in any way disguising the truth. So
                        much was due to her grandfather, and never in her life had she cheated him of his dues as
                        Chummie. It was due to herself also. To shrink from a duty because of its painfulness would be
                        cowardice, and there was no touch or trace of that most detestable weakness in her soul.
                    "Anyhow," she resolved," I'll let him have one whole day of
                        joy before I grieve him with the news that I must go away again. And in telling him of my first
                        journey I'll say as little as I can about the dangers encountered and the hardships
                        endured; I'll make as much of a frolic of it as I can in the telling. Surely there will
                        be no untruthfulness in that."
                    That day's journey was a long one, but the start was early, and Baillie
                        Pegram's horse was a willing one, as that energetic young man's horses were
                        apt to be, while as for the troopers of the escort, they and their horses were accustomed to
                        follow at any pace their leader might  It was barely three
                        o'clock in the afternoon, therefore, when the cavalcade arrived at Willoughby, and
                        Agatha threw herself into the old gentleman's arms.
                    "Oh, Agatha!"
                    "Oh, Chummie!"
                    That at first was all that the two could say. When Colonel Archer found voice he greeted the
                        troopers and bade them leave their horses to the care of his servants. For the men were of that
                        class, socially, to which Colonel Archer belonged, and there was no thought at that time in
                        Virginia of treating a gentleman otherwise than as a gentleman, merely because he happened to be
                        a private soldier.
                    "You will be my guests for the night," the host said, quite as if that settled
                        the matter. But the sergeant had orders which he must obey,orders which Stuart, with his
                        unfailing foresight, had probably given, to make sure that the presence of his men at Willoughby
                        overnight might not spoil an occasion of tender affection.
                    "Thank you very cordially, Colonel Archer," answered the sergeant;
                        "but we are under orders to move on toward Loudoun County to-night.  We are permitted to rest the horses for three hours only. After
                        that we must march about a dozen miles before sleeping, so that we may complete a little
                        scouting expedition into Loudoun tomorrow. Our orders on that point are peremptory."
                    "Well, Ladybird, we'll have the gentlemen to dinner at any rate. As soon as I
                        heard of your coming I went out with my gun, and brought back two big wild turkeys, as fat as
                        butter. I thought you might come under escort, so I've had them put both the birds on
                        the spit. I'll wager you gentlemen haven't seen a wild turkey this
                        fall."
                    So he ran on with his hospitable greetings, managing in his joyous nervousness to upset two of
                        the glasses which he had ordered a servant to bring with the decanters, for the
                        troopers' refreshment. Agatha managed presently to get a word with him aside.
                    "It is three o'clock, Chummiean hour before dinner. I'll have time
                        enough to boil myself a little. Think of it, Chummie, I haven't had a hot bath for a
                        whole week!" Then turning to  her escort she excused
                        herself until the dinner-hour.
                    This was an unhappy circumstance, as Agatha learned when she came down, fresh-faced, to the
                        dinner. For, left alone with the troopers, the old gentleman naturally asked them concerning the
                        details of her coming into Stuart's lines, and as the story of her dash through the
                        canister fire was echoing throughout the army, the young fellows grew enthusiastic in their
                        minute descriptions of her peril and her heroism. When Agatha reappeared, therefore, the old
                        gentleman was all a-tremble. He met her at the foot of the stairway, and a little scene
                        followed, which told the girl not only that he knew all that had been most harrowing in her
                        experiences, but that the knowledge of it would make her coming absence cruelly hard for him to
                        bear.
                    At dinner he found himself too tremulous to carve, and, for the first time in his life, he
                        relinquished that most hospitable of all a host's offices to the younger men.
                    "Never mind, Ladybird," he said, cheerily, as he saw how greatly troubled she
                        was. "it will pass presently, and you shall find me quite myself  again in the morning. We're going after the birds, you know, you and I. I
                        haven't allowed a partridge to be killed on the plantation this fall, so that you might
                        be sure of a good day's sport with Chummie."
                    Thus it came about that as the old man and the young woman sat in the firelight that evening,
                        after the troopers were gone, Agatha changed her purpose and told him of Baillie Pegram.
                        Delicately, but with perfect candour, she told the whole of the truth.
                    "I learned to like him very much while I was in Richmond last Christmas, and I was not
                        to blame for that, was I, Chummie? He was so kind to me, so good in a thousand little ways, so
                        gentle in all his strength that he reminded me of you, more than anybody else ever did. I used
                        often to think that he was very much the sort of man you must have been when you were in your
                        twenties. There was no reason, that I knew of, why I should not like him. He was a gentleman,
                        the representative of one of the best families in the State, a man of the highest character,
                        well-educated, travelled, intellectual, and of charming manners. He did more than anybody  elseor everybody else for that matterto make the time pass
                        pleasantly for me. You see how it was, don't you, Chummie?"
                    The old gentleman nodded his head with a smile, and answered:
                    "I see how it was, Ladybird. Go on. Tell me all about it."
                    "Then one day there came a letter from The Oaks. It wasn't just a scolding
                        letter. It was something much worse than that. For if my aunts had scolded me, I
                        shouldn't have stood it."
                    "What would you have done, Ladybird?" asked the grandfather, with a look of
                        pleased and loving pride upon his countenance.
                    "I should have come back to Willoughby and you."
                    "And right welcome you would have been. But go on. What did the old catspsha! I
                        didn't mean that; I thought I heard a cat yowling as I spokewhat did the good ladies of
                        The Oaks say to you?"
                    "O, they wrote very kindly and sorrowfully. They were shocked to know that I had
                        permitted something like intimacy to grow up between myself and a young man without consulting
                        them  as to the proprieties of the situation. But how could I have
                        done that, Chummie? You see I didn't sit down and say, ' I'm going to
                        be intimate with this young man if my aunts approve.' The friendship just grew, quite
                        naturally, like the grass on a lawn. I didn't think about it at all, and I
                        don't see why I should. I met Mr. Pegram in all the best houses; everybody was fond of
                        him, and everybody spoke of him in the highest terms. Why should I think"
                    "You shouldn't, Ladybird. I should have been ashamed of you if you had. Only a
                        vain or morbidly self-conscious girl would have thought in such a case. And onlythere goes that
                        confounded cat againonly elderly gentlewomen of secluded lives and a badly perverted sense of
                        propriety would ever have thought of such a thing. But continue, my child. I suppose they told
                        you about that idiotic old quarrel"
                    "Yes, Chummiethey told me and they didn't tell me. They never would say what it
                        was all about, or how much there was in it. Indeed, they told me I was guilty of a great
                        irreverence in even asking concerning it. They said it should be quite enough for a well-ordered
                        young woman  to know that these people were my father's
                        enemies. As Mr. Baillie Pegram never knew my father, I couldn't understand why he and I
                        should be enemies, but when I said something like that, I saw that the aunties were terribly
                        shocked. I suppose I'm not a 'well-ordered' young lady,
                        Chummie."
                    "No! Thank God you're not. You are just a sweet, wholesome, lovable girland
                        that is very different from what those oldladies call a 'well-ordered' young
                        woman."
                    "Well, anyhow," the girl resumed, "I obeyed my instructions. I wrote
                        to Mr. Pegram, telling him there could be no friendship between him and me, and do you know,
                        Chummie, they blamed me more for that than for all the rest. They said it was
                        'unladylike' and a lot more things, for me to write to him at all. But I never
                        could find out what they thought I ought to have done. I couldn't break off the
                        acquaintance without telling him I must do so, could I?"
                    "You couldn't, and I'm glad you couldn't. A
                        'well-ordered' young lady would have done it easily. She would have told a lot
                        of lies about not being at home when he called, or having a 
                        headache when he wanted to see her. You couldn't do that because you are honest and
                        truthful, and that's the best thing about you, except your love for your old Chummie,
                        and even that wouldn't be of much account if I couldn't trust its truth and
                        sincerity. Go on, child. I didn't mean to interrupt."
                    "O, but you must interrupt. That's the only way I know what you're
                        thinking. Well, I went to The Oaks sometime later, and while there I went out one morning for a
                        ride by myself. My poor horse broke his leg, as I told you in a letter, and Mr. Baillie Pegram
                        happened along, and was very kind in helping me out of my trouble. He insisted that I should
                        ride his mare home. I tried all I could to refuse, but he showed me that I simply could not help
                        myself, and so I took the mare,the same one that was killed under him at Manassas. That time the
                        aunties did actually scold me, or pretty nearly that. So I rebelled, and made up my mind to come
                        back to you at once. Mr. Pegram dined at The Oaks on the day before I started, and he and I had
                        a long talk, but of course it could not change the situation. That was the last I saw of him
                        until  the day before the battle of Manassas, when he took a red
                        feather out of my hat and wore it in the battle. He was terribly wounded in the fight, but he
                        sent the feather back to me as he had promised to do. I had quoted to him or let him quote to me
                        the Indian's defiance, 'There is war between me and thee.' It was
                        after that that he insisted upon taking the feather and wearing it through the battle."
                    The girl paused, but her grandfather said nothing for a whole minute. Perhaps he felt that she
                        needed the pause before speaking further. At last he said, very low and gently:
                    "Tell me about yesterday morning."
                    She did so, sparing herself at no point. She told of Baillie's outburst, and of the
                        declaration of his love. She told, too, of her chilling answer, and her perversity in so
                        managing the conversation as to prevent a recurrence to the subject. Finally she broke down,
                        saying with streaming eyes:
                    "Oh, Chummie! I have ruined his lifeand my own!"
                    "I don't know so well about that. He may recover, you know."
                    
                    "Yes, I know. But what then?" At that she laid her head upon the old
                        man's breast and let herself become a little child again, in an abandonment of grief.
                        And with a childlike confidence and candour she said at last:
                    "Oh, Chummie! Don't you understand? He can never know. He will always think of
                        me as hard and cold and unresponsive. After what I said to him yesterday morning, he cannot
                        again tell mewhy, Chummie, it was as bad as if I had slapped him in the face!"
                    The old man caressed her till her agitation subsided. Then, speaking in a tone of wisdom which
                        irresistibly carried conviction with it, he said:
                    "You are wholly wrong, Agatha. Baillie Pegram is much too brave and true, and much too
                        generous a man to let this matter rest where it is. If he recovers, as I pray God he may, be
                        very sure he will come to you again and tell you calmly what he blurted out without meaning to
                        do so, under stress of a trying situation. You must go to sleep now, little girl. You are very
                        weary and greatly overwrought. And we must be up with the sun to-morrow on account of the  birds. Good night, dear. You must never leave me again while I
                        live."
                    There was unsteadiness in his step, as he gallantly ushered her through the doorway, and as he
                        returned to the room to extinguish the solitary lamp. Then a heaviness came over him, and he sat
                        down again in his easy chair before the fire. The logs had ceased to blaze and crackle now, but
                        the old man sat still. The logs fell into a mass of glowing coals after a time, and slowly the
                        coals ceased to glow. One by one they went out. Still he did not move.
                    There were only ashes in the great fireplace when the morning came and Agatha found her Chummie
                        still sitting there where the fire of his life had so gently gone out.
                
                
                
                    XXI
                    AT PARTING
                    
                    NEWS of Colonel Archer's death ran rapidly through a State of which he had been one of
                        the foremost citizens, by reason alike of his public services and his private virtues. It
                        quickly reached Stuart's ears, and he promptly sent a courier with a letter of sympathy
                        and friendship, at the end of which he wrote:
                    "Now, my dear Miss Agatha, I crave a favour at your hands. Your grandfather was a
                        soldier greatly distinguished in two wars. He should have a soldier's burial, and with
                        your permission, which I take for granted, I am ordering a company of dragoons and a battery now
                        stationed at Warrenton and under my command, to move at once to Willoughby, and there pay the
                        last honours to the veteran."
                    Heart-broken as she was, Agatha met calamity with a fortitude which astonished even herself.  She was still scarcely more than a girl, but the blood of a
                        soldier filled her veins,a soldier who had never flinched from danger or murmured under
                        suffering. "I too will neither flinch nor murmur," she said to herself.
                        "Chummie would like it best to see me brave and resolute, if he could knowand perhaps
                        he does know. I will bear myself as he would like me to."
                    And she kept that vow to the letter. The tears would mount to her eyelids now and then in spite
                        of her and trickle down her cheeks; but they were silent tears, accompanied by no moanings that
                        were audible; they were the tears of heart-break, not the tears of weakness and self-pity. They
                        were hidden for the most part from human view, and resolutely restrained in the presence of
                        others. And when any of those who thronged about her for her consolation caught momentary sight
                        of them, the effect was like that produced when a strong man weeps.
                    When the soldiers came she directed an attentive ministry to their comfort, and after the last
                        salutes to the dead had been fired over the grave, she turned to Captain Marshall Pollard, whose
                             battery it was that had paid that tribute of honour, and
                        asked in a steady voice:
                    "Can you arrange to stay at Willoughby overnight? I have need to talk with you of
                        matters of some importance. It will be very kind and good of you, if you can manage
                        it."
                    After a moment's reflection, Marshall answered:
                    "I can stay till midnight, and that will give us time for our talk. I must be at
                        Warrenton at reveille in the morning, but my horse will easily make the distance if I start by
                        one o'clock."
                    Then he spoke a few words in a low tone to his lieutenant, who took command and marched the
                        battery away, with all heads bared till they had passed out of the grounds.
                    "Let us not talk of my grandfather, please," said the girl, as the two entered
                        the drawing-room. "Not that I shrink from that," she quickly added.
                        "It can never be painful to me to speak of him. But it might distress you. You knew him
                        and loved him long ago, beforebefore you and I quarrelled."
                    She did not shrink from this reference to the past, or try in any way to disguise the truth of
                             it. Her mind was full of the dear dead man's last
                        words spoken in praise of her courage and truthfulness, and she was more resolute than ever to
                        live up to the character he had approved so earnestly and with so much of loving admiration.
                    "I think we did not quarrel," the young captain responded; "you did
                        not, at any rate. I misjudged you cruelly, and in my anger I falsely accused you in my heart.
                        Believe me, Agatha,"he had called her so in the old days, and the name came easily to
                        his lips now,"believe me when I say that I have outlived all that bitterness. Let us be
                        true, loyal friends hereafter, friends who know and trust each other, friends who do not
                        misunderstand."
                    The girl held out her hand, in response, and made no effort to hide the tears with which she
                        welcomed this healing of the old wounds.
                    The young man, too, rejoiced in a reconciliation which laid his old love for this woman for ever
                        to rest and planted flowers of friendship upon its grave. He was astonished at his own condition
                        of mind and heart. He learned now the truth that his mad love for Agatha had become completely a
                        thing of the past, and that the bitterness  which had at first
                        succeeded it was utterly gone. He could think of her henceforth with a tender affection that had
                        no trace of passion in it. The dead past had buried its dead, and the grass grew green above it.
                    At that moment dinner was announced, for Agatha had decreed that life at Willoughby should at
                        once resume its accustomed order.
                    "Chummie would like it so," she thought. So the two friends passed through the
                        hall to the dining-room hand in hand, just as they had so often done in the old days before
                        passion had come to disturb their lives.
                    Marshall had now one supreme desire with respect to Agatha,a great yearning to comfort her and
                        help her as a brother might. He told her so, when they returned to the drawing-room after
                        dinner, to sit before the great fire of hickory logs during all the remaining hours of
                        Marshall's stay.
                    "Tell me now," he said, "of your plans, that I may share in them and
                        help you carry them out perhaps. What are you going to do?"
                    "I'm going to find Baillie if I can, and nurse him back to healthif it is not
                        too late."
                    
                    "But he is in the hands of the enemy, you know."
                    "Yes, I know. That makes it more difficult, but we must not shrink from difficulties. I
                        shall start north to-morrow."
                    "But how?Tell me about it, please."
                    She explained her plans, telling him of the arrangements she had made for bringing medicines
                        through the blockade, transmitting letters, and finding friends at every step in case of need.
                        Then she added:
                    "I'm going to take Sam with me this time. He is devoted to his master, and his
                        sagacity is extraordinary. I shall depend upon him to help me find where Baillie is, and to do
                        whatever there is to do for him."
                    "Will you let me have writing materials?" the young man abruptly asked.
                    Without asking for an explanation, she brought her lap desk, and with the awkwardness which a man
                        always manifests in attempting to use that peculiarly feminine device, he managed to fill two or
                        three sheets. When he had done, he handed the papers to her, saying:
                    "I can really help, I think. You will need  money for your
                        expenses. You must have it in sufficient supply to meet all emergencies, so that you may never
                        be delayed or baffled in any purpose for want of it. And it may easily happen that you shall
                        need a considerable sum at once. Money is the pass-key to many difficult doors. It so happens
                        that I have a very considerable sum invested in railroad and other securities, in the hands of a
                        very close friend of mine in New York. I have written to him to sell out the whole of them and
                        place the proceeds at your disposal in any banks that may be most convenient to you."
                    "But, Marshall, you are impoverishing yourself"
                    "In the which case," he responded, with his gentle, half-mocking smile,
                        "I should be doing no more than all the rest of us Virginians are doing in this
                        struggle. But I am doing nothing of the kind. I have a plantation, you know, and absolutely
                        nobody dependent upon me. If I survive the war I shall have some land, at any rate, out of which
                        to dig a living. These investments of mine at the North were made long before the war, and I
                        should have sold them out  at the beginning of the trouble if I
                        hadn't been too lazy to attend to my affairs. I'm glad now that I was lazy. It
                        enables me to help the two best friends I ever had in this rather lonely world,Baillie Pegram
                        and you. A man may do as he likes with his own, you know, and this is precisely what I like to
                        do with my securities. Fortunately my friend who has them in charge is a blue-blooded Virginian,
                        who would be fighting with us out there on the lines, if he were not a helpless cripple, fit for
                        nothing, as he wrote to me when the trouble came, but to manage his banking-house. But how are
                        you to get these papers through with you, without risk of discovery?"
                    "I'll make Sam carry them," she responded. "Nobody will ever
                        think of searching him, particularly as his connection with my affairs will be known to nobody
                        except my friends and co-conspirators."
                    "What a strategist you are, Agatha! What a general you would have made if you'd
                        happened to be a man!" exclaimed the young man in admiration.
                    "No," she answered, hesitating for a moment,  and
                        then resolutely going on to speak truthfully the thought that was in her. "No,
                        Marshall, for then I should not have had the impulse that teaches me now what to do. Tell me
                        now, about the war. Shall I find Willoughby occupied as a Federal general's
                        headquarters when I get back to Virginia?"
                    "I don't know. I cannot even guess what the officials at Richmond mean. I only
                        know we have thrown away an opportunity that will never come back to us. The army was full of
                        enthusiasm after Manassasit is discouraged and depressed now. Then it was strong with the hope
                        and confidence that are born of victory; now it sits there wondering when the enemy will be
                        ready for it to fight again. It was fit for any enterprise then, and the enemy was utterly unfit
                        to resist anything it might have undertaken. But it was not permitted to undertake anything. It
                        was made to lie still, like a pointer in a turkey blind, quivering with eagerness to be up and
                        doing, but restrained by the paralysis of misdirected authority. While we have been doing
                        nothing, the Federal enemy has been swollen to more than twice our numbers. More important  still, it has been fashioned by McClellan's skilled hand
                        into as fine a fighting-machine as any general need wish for his tool. The officers have been
                        instructed in their profession, and the men have been taught their trade. Their organisation is
                        perfect, their discipline is almost as good as that of regulars, and their confidence in
                        themselves and their commanders is daily and hourly increasing. Our men have abundant confidence
                        in themselves, but none at all in generals who throw away their opportunities or in a government
                        that touches nothing without paralysing it. Moreover, the Federal army has supply departments
                        behind it that could not be bettered, while ours seem wholly imbecile and incapable. It should
                        have been obvious to every intelligent man at the outset, that with our vastly inferior material
                        resources, our best chance of winning in this war by bringing to bear from the first all we
                        could of dash and ceaseless activity. We should have taken the aggressive at once and all the
                        time, knowing that every day of delay must strengthen the enemy and weaken us. Instead of that,
                        after winning a great battle in such fashion as well-nigh to destroy for a time the
                        enemy's  capacity of resistance, we have taken up a
                        defensive attitude and let the precious opportunity slip from our grasp. It will never return. I
                        do not say that we shall be beaten in the end; I say only that our task is immeasurably more
                        difficult now than it was three months ago, and it is growing more and more difficult every
                        day."
                    "You are discouraged then?"
                    "No. I am only depressed. As for courage, we must all of us keep that up to the end. We
                        must be brave to endure as well as to fight,if we are ever graciously permitted to fight again.
                        But I did not mean to talk of these things. I am only a battery captain. I have no business to
                        think. But unfortunately our army is largely composed of men who can't help thinking.
                        Tell me now, for I must ride presently, is there anything that I can do for youany way in which
                        I can help you?"
                    "You will be helping me all the time, just by letting me feel that the old boy and girl
                        friendship is mine again. That is more precious to me than you can imagine. Good-bye, now. Your
                        horse is at the door. Thank you for all, and God bless you."
                
                
                
                    XXII
                    SAM AS A STRATEGIST
                    
                    AGATHA'S second progress northward was far more difficult of accomplishment than the
                        first had been. Under McClellan's skilled vigilance the armed mob which he found
                        "cowering on the Potomac" in August, had been converted into an army, drilled,
                        disciplined, and familiar with every detail of that military art which it was called upon to
                        practise. The lines west of Washington were far more rigidly drawn and more fully manned than
                        before, and the officers and men who held them exercised a vigilance that had not been thought
                        of a few months earlier.
                    And this was not the only difficulty that Agatha encountered in her effort to reach Baltimore. A
                        passport system had been inaugurated at the North, under operation of which those who would
                        travel, and especially those who travelled  toward Baltimore,a
                        city whose loyalty to the Union lay under grave suspicion,must give a satisfactory account of
                        themselves in order to secure the necessary papers. War had begun to bring the country under
                        that despotism which military force always and everywhere regards as the necessary condition of
                        its effectiveness.
                    It was a strange spectacle that the country presented during that four years of fratricidal
                        strife. A great, free people, the freest on earth, fell to fighting, one part with another part.
                        Each side was battling, as each side sincerely believed, for the cause of liberty; each was
                        unsparingly spending its blood and treasure in order, in Mr. Lincoln's phrase, that
                        "government of the people, by the people, and for the people might not perish from the
                        earth." Yet on both sides a military rule as rigorous as that of Russia laid its iron
                        hand upon the people, and the people submitted themselves to its exactions almost without a
                        murmur. Arbitrary, inquisitorial, intolerant, this military despotism wrought its will both at
                        the North and at the South, overriding laws and disregarding constitutions, making a mockery of
                        chartered rights, and restraining personal liberty  in ways that
                        would have caused instant and universal revolt, had such things been attempted by civil
                        authority.
                    The military arm is a servant which is apt to make itself the unrelenting master of those who
                        invoke its assistance.
                    Agatha encountered this difficulty while yet inside the Confederate lines. She was not permitted
                        to pass in any northward direction upon any pretence. The authorities at one place under
                        Confederate control forbade her to go to another place under like control. She appealed to
                        Stuart in this emergency, and although his authority did not extend into the Shenandoah Valley,
                        he made such representations to the commandants in that quarter as were sufficient for her
                        purposes.
                    To get within the Federal lines was a still more perplexing problem. One device after another
                        proved ineffectual, and the girl was almost in despair. She appealed at last to the general in
                        command of the cavalry in that region,one of those to whom Stuart had written in her behalf,and
                        he promptly responded:
                    
                    "At precisely what point have you friends in coperation with you?"
                    She named a little town within the Federal line where lived some of her nearest friends.
                    "I can manage that," he said." The point is an insignificant one ten
                        miles within their lines. There are pretty certainly no troops there, and the picket-lines in
                        front are not very strong, as nothing could he more improbable than the raid I shall make in
                        that direction. You can ride, of course."
                    "Of course."
                    "Very well. I'll take a strong force, make a dash through the picket-lines,
                        gallop into the town, and make a foray through the region round about. You will follow my column
                        as closely as you can without placing yourself under fire, and when we reach the town, settle
                        yourself with your friends there, turning your horse loose lest he attract attention.
                        You'd better do that just before we reach the town, and walk the rest of the way. Can
                        you wear a walking-skirt under your riding-habit, and slip off the outeryou see I'm a
                        bachelor, Miss Ronald, and don't understand such things."
                    
                    "You may safely leave all that to my superior feminine sagacity. When shall we
                        start?"
                    "Whenever you wish. Only we'd better march in the afternoon and reach the town
                        after nightfall. The nights are very dark now, and you will perhaps be able to escape
                        observation in the town. Let me see," looking at his watch, "it's now
                        half past one. We could do the thing this afternoon, if you were ready."
                    "I can be ready in fifteen minutes," she replied.
                    "You're very prompt," the officer said, with a suggestion of
                        admiration in his voice.
                    "O, I'm half-soldier, you know. General Stuart approves me."
                    "Very well, then. We'll march in half an hour."
                    The operation was a very simple one, in its military part, at least. The expedition was composed
                        of a force much too strong for resistance by the handful of men available for immediate use on
                        the enemy's part. In the guise of a foraging party it easily dispersed the picket-lines
                        and pushed forward rapidly, taking the little town in its course, but making no halt there. It
                        scoured the country round about, and as soon as Federal  forces
                        began to gather for its destruction, it retreated by quite a different route from that by which
                        it had advanced.
                    It was nine o'clock in the evening when Agatha slipped off her horse in the little
                        Maryland town and left it in charge of a trooper. A five-minutes' walk brought her to
                        the house of her friends, where she was safe.
                    With her walked her negro maid, who had ridden behind her. That maid's name was Sam, and
                        he quickly divested himself of the feminine outer garments which he had worn over his own
                        clothes. This device had been of Sam's own invention, for that worthy, under stress of
                        circumstances, was rapidly developing into something like genius that gift of diplomacy which he
                        had before employed in discouraging his mammy's efforts to make him her assistant in
                        the kitchen. Sam was a consummate liar whenever lying seemed to him to be necessary or even
                        useful. In the service of his master he had no hesitation in saying, or indeed in doing,
                        anything that might be convenient, and during her long stay north of the Potomac Agatha was far
                        more deeply indebted to Sam's unscrupulousness than she knew.  For when he found that his mistress had conscientious objections to his methods,
                        he simply forbore to mention them to her, and carried out his plans on his own responsibility.
                        Long afterward, in relating the experiences of this time to his black companions at Warlock, he
                        made it an interesting feature of his discourse to keep reminding his hearers that,
                        "Mis' Agatha's so dam' hones' dat she
                        wouldn't tell a lie even to a Yankee."
                    This declaration never failed to open the eyes of the auditors in wonder, and to bring from their
                        lips the half-incredulous response:
                    "Well, I 'clar to gracious!"
                    It was Sam who devised and suggested the next step in the present journey. Agatha's
                        arrival at the house, under cover of a very dark night, had been unobserved by any one outside
                        the household, but it was obvious that her remaining there would involve grave danger of
                        discovery. Her presence could not be concealed from the servants of the household, and however
                        loyal these might be to their mistress and her three daughters, who constituted the family, they
                        would very certainly talk, the more especially, if  any efforts
                        were made to keep the visitor in hiding in the house. In a town so smallit was only a village,
                        in factgossip has quick wings, and there were sure to be some persons there who would promptly
                        report to the military that a young woman from beyond the lines was in hiding in the town.
                    The whole matter was discussed in family conclave during the night of Agatha's coming,
                        and fortunately Sam was present, for the reason that it was specially necessary to conceal from
                        the household servants the interesting fact that the "maid" who had
                        accompanied a young lady to the place was in truth a stalwart negro boy. He remained in the
                        room, therefore, from which all the servants were rigidly excluded, and thus became familiar
                        with every detail of the puzzling situation. After ingenuity had been fairly exhausted in
                        devising plans only to reject them one after another as impracticable, Sam, whose modesty had
                        never amounted to shyness, boldly broke into the conversation.
                    "As I figgers it out, Mis' Agatha." he said, "de case is
                        puffec'ly clar. We cawn't stay heah, 
                        'thout a-gittin' tuk up. We cawn't go back South 'thout
                        a-gittin' tuk up an' maybe gittin' hung in de bargain. So we
                        mus' jes' go on Norf, now, immediately, at once."
                    "But we can't, Sam. You don't understand. We can't travel
                        without passports."
                    "Couldn't de ladies git a skyar into 'em, an' tell de Yankees
                        dey jes' cawn't an' won't stay any longer in a town whar de
                        rebels is a-comin' gallopin' through de streets, a-yellin'
                        an' a-shootin' an' a-kickin' up de ole Harry?
                        Wouldn't de Yankees give 'em passpo'ts to de Norf den?
                        Wouldn't dey think it natch'rel dat a houseful o' jes'
                        ladies what's got no men-folks to pertect 'em, would be skyar'd out
                        o' der seven senses after sich a performance as dis heah?"
                    "But, Sam," interposed his mistress, "that wouldn't do me any
                        good or you either. If anybody asked for passports for you and me, the officers would ask who we
                        are and where we came from, and all about it."
                    "Don't ax 'em fer no passpo't fer you. Jes' let de
                        other ladies ax fer passpo'ts fer demselves, an' a nigga boy to drive de
                        carriage. I'll be de nigga boy. Den one o' de young ladies mout git over her
                        skyar an' jes' stay at home, quiet  like,
                        an' let you take her place in de carriage. De young lady wouldn't have to go
                        roun' tellin' folks she's done git over her skyar an' stayed
                        at home. Nobody'd know nuffin' about her bein' heah fer a week,
                        an' by dat time de Yankees would 'a' done fergitten how many folks
                        went away in de carriage."
                    After some discussion it was agreed that Sam's plan, in its general outline at least,
                        was feasible, and as there was no alternative way out, it was finally decided to adopt the
                        scheme.
                    "You mus' do it right away den." suggested Sam, "while de
                        skyar is on to folks. Ef you wait, de Yankees'll fin' out de trigger
                        o' de trap, sho'. An' after awhile, all de ladies
                        'ceptin' you, Mis' Agatha, can git over de skyar an' come
                        home agin."
                    Sam's plan was aided in its execution by the fact that several other families in the
                        town were genuinely scared by the Confederate raid, and, as soon as the Federal posts were
                        restablished, asked for passports under which they might send their women and children to less
                        exposed points. When Agatha's hostess made a like application for herself and
                        daughters, with their negro,  "Sam, aged eighteen, five
                        feet seven inches high," and all the rest of the description, no difficulty was
                        encountered in securing the desired papers.
                    In order that Agatha might go as far northward as possible without having to renew her passport,
                        it was decided that their destination should be at a point well beyond the Pennsylvania border.
                        Agatha had no friends there, and she knew no one of Southern sympathies in the town selected.
                        But thanks to Marshall Pollard, she had command of money in plenty, or would have, as soon as
                        she could send the papers he had given her to New York. It was arranged, therefore, that the
                        little party, in the character of refugees, should take quarters at a hotel until such time as
                        Agatha could renew her journey without her companions. In the meantime, Agatha's by
                        means of correspondence with her friends in Baltimore and Washington, could prosecute her
                        inquiries as to Baillie Pegram's condition and whereabouts.
                
                
                
                    XXIII
                    A NEGOTIATION
                    
                    AGATHA did not remain long in the little Pennsylvania town. She found its people to be positively
                        peppery in their Union sentiments, and she soon realised that she could make no inquiries from
                        that point without attracting dangerous attention to herself. She saw, too, that the little city
                        was not large enough for easy concealment. She could not there lose herself in the crowd and
                        pass unobserved whithersoever she pleased. She promptly decided that her best course would be to
                        go on to New York, but even that could not be undertaken with safety for a time. She must remain
                        where she was for two or three weekslong enough for her presence there to lose its character as
                        a novelty.
                    Sam, who enjoyed her confidence to the full, suggested that she should feign ill-health, and  leave the place under pretence of seeking a residence better
                        suited to her constitution. That was not the way in which Sam expressed his thought, of course,
                        but he made himself clearly understood by saying:
                    "Tell you what 'tis, Mis' Agatha, you'se jes' got to
                        git powerful sick an' say you cawn't live in no sich a pesky town as dis here
                        one. Den you kin pack up yer things, ef you've got any, an' move on."
                    Agatha laughed, and answered:
                    "Why, Sam, I don't know how to be ill. I never had a headache in my life, and I
                        couldn't look like an invalid if I tried. No, Sam, we must just wait here for a
                        time."
                    "Why, Mis' Agatha, it's de easiest thing in de world to make out as
                        how you'se sick when you ain't. I'se done it hundreds of times, when
                        mammy wanted me to wuk in de kitchen an' I wanted to go a-fishin'. All you got
                        to do is to look solemncholy-like, an' say you'se got a pain in yo'
                        haid an' a powerful misery in yo' back, an' cole chills
                        a-creepin' all over you. Tell you what, it's as easy as nuffin' at
                        all."
                    Agatha laughed again, but put Sam's plan  aside without
                        further discussion, whereat that budding strategist went away sorrowful, muttering to himself:
                    "I done heah folks say as how 'white man's mighty onsartain,'
                        but Mis' Agatha's a heap wuss'n even a white man, leastwise
                        'bout some things."
                    A week later, Sam presented another plan, which he had wrought out in his mind at cost of not a
                        little gray brain matter.
                    "Mis' Agatha," he asked, "is you got any frien's in
                        New York what you kin trus' to do what you axes 'em to do?"
                    "Yes, Sam. There's one gentleman there who will do anything I ask him to do.
                        He's the one to whom I sent the papers that I made you carry till we got
                        here."
                    "Den you kin write to him?"
                    "Yes, certainly."
                    "Well, now, I'se got a plan dat'll wuk as easyas easyas
                        playin' of de banjo. You jes' write to dat gentleman, an' git him to
                        sen' you a telemagraph, sayin' as how somebody's a-dyin'
                        over there, somebody yo'se powerful fond of, an' so you mus' come
                        quick."
                    
                    This time Sam's suggestion commended itself to his mistress's mind, and soon
                        afterward there came a telegram to her, saying:
                    "Come quick if you want to see Eliza alive."
                    She hurriedly packed the few belongings which she had purchased in the Pennsylvania town, bade
                        her friends good-bye, and before noon of the next day, was safely hidden in the little lodging
                        which Marshall Pollard's friend had secured for her in New York. In the great city she
                        might go and come and do as she pleased without fear of observation, and without the least
                        danger of attracting attention to herself. There is no solitude so secure as that of a thronged
                        city, where men are too completely self-centred to concern themselves with the affairs of their
                        neighbours.
                    Agatha's first inquiries concerning Baillie's whereabouts were directed toward
                        the military prisons and prison-camps, but in none of them could she find a trace of the master
                        of Warlock. When she had completely exhausted this field of inquiry, a great fear came upon her,
                        that the man she sought was dead. The presumption was strong that he had died of his wound
                        before he could be sent to any of the prisons provided for 
                        captured Confederates. A less resolute person would have accepted that conclusion, but Agatha
                        persisted in her search, extending her inquiries to all the hospitals of the Federal army, and
                        within a month her persistence was rewarded.
                    What she learned was that Baillie Pegram's wound had been too severe to admit of his
                        transportation far beyond Washington, and that he, in company with a few other prisoners in like
                        condition, had been placed in an improvised hospital a few miles north of the capital city,
                        where he still lay under treatment, with only a slender chance of recovery. Her first impulse
                        was to go to Washington at once, and endeavour in some way to secure permission to enter the
                        hospital as a nurse. Her friends in Washington and in Maryland discouraged this attempt,
                        assuring her not only of its futility, but of its danger. They were convinced, indeed, that she
                        could not even enter Washington, which was then a vast fortified camp, without the discovery of
                        her identity by the agents of a secret service which had become well-nigh omniscient, so far as
                        personal identities, personal histories, and personal intentions were concerned.
                    
                    "Stay where you are," one of them urgently wrote her, "and keep
                        yourself free to act if at any time a chance shall come to accomplish any good. It would spoil
                        all and destroy the last vestige of hope, for you to attempt what you suggest. You can do no
                        good here. You may do inestimable good if you remain where you are."
                    When this decision was communicated to Sam, his round black face became long, and the look of
                        laughter completely went out of his countenance. But Sam was not an easily discouraged person,
                        and he had come to believe in his own sagacity. So after a day or two of disconsolate moping, he
                        set his wits at work upon this new problem. Presently an idea was born to him, and he went at
                        once to lay it before Agatha for consideration.
                    "Mis' Agatha," he said, "even ef you cawn't git to
                        Mas' Baillie, Sam kin, an' that'll be better'n
                        nothin', won't it?"
                    "Yes, Sam," answered the sad-eyed young woman, "very much better than
                        nothing. You could take care of your master, and be a comfort to him, and if the time ever
                        should come when  anything could be done for him, you'd
                        be on the ground to help. But how can you get to him?"
                    "I could manage dat, ef I was a free nigga," answered the boy, meditatively.
                    "But you are free, I suppose," said Agatha.
                    "You've been brought to a free State, practically with your master's
                        consent, and that makes you free, I believe. But"
                    "O, I don't want to be a sho' 'nuff free nigga,"
                        interrupted Sam. "I ain't never a-gwine to be dat. I'se a-gwine to
                        'long to Mas' Baillie cl'ar to de end o' de cawn rows. But I
                        done heah folks up heah say dat de Yankees is a-sendin' back all de niggas what runs
                        away from der mahstahs, an' ef I ain't got nuffin' to say
                        I'se free, dey'd sen' me back to Ferginny ef I went down dat way whar
                        Mas' Baillie is."
                    Sam's information on this point was in a measure correct. For in the singleness of his
                        purpose to save the Union at all costs, and in his anxiety not to alienate the border slave
                        States by interfering with slavery where it legally existed, Mr. Lincoln steadfastly insisted,
                        during the first year of the war, that military commanders should restore all fugitive slaves
                        who should come  to them for protection, or where that could not
                        be done, should list them and employ them in work upon fortifications and the like.
                    Agatha thought for a time, and then said:
                    "I think I can manage that, Sam. I'll try, at any rate. But I must wait till
                        to-morrow. Tell me how you expect to get to your master."
                    "I don't rightly know yit, Mis' Agatha. But I'll git dar.
                        Maybe you'll send a letter to yo' frien's down dat way,
                        tellin' 'em Sam's all right, so's dey'll
                        trus' me. Ef you do dat, Mis' Agatha, I'll do de
                        res'."
                    It was impossible, of course, to execute legal papers setting Sam free, nor were any papers at
                        all necessary for his use, so long as he remained in New York. But in Washington he might have
                        to give an account of himself, and by way of making sure that he should not be seized as a
                        runaway slave, and set to work upon the fortifications, Agatha's friend, the banker,
                        gave him a document in which he certified that the negro boy was not a runaway slave, but was
                        known to him as a legally free negro, who had been living in New York, but wished to go to
                        Washington and elsewhere in search of employment.
                    
                    Armed with this paper, and with full instructions from Agatha as to how to find certain of her
                        friends, Sam set out on his journey full of determination to succeed in his affectionate
                        purpose.
                    In Washington, he engaged in various small employments that yielded a revenue in the form of
                        tips. He purchased a banjo, and ingratiated himself everywhere by singing his plantation songs,
                        including both those that he had learned from others, and a few, such as "Oh,
                        Eliza," which he had fabricated for himself. In the course of a week or two he learned
                        all he needed to know about roads, military lines, and the like, and was prepared to make his
                        way to the hospital where his master lay.
                    There he besought employment of menial kinds, at the hands of the surgeons and other officers, of
                        whom there were only a very few at the post. Again he strummed his banjo and sang his songs to
                        good purpose, impressing everybody with the conviction that he was a jolly, thoughtless,
                        happy-go-lucky negro, and very amusing withal. The hospital was a very small one in a very
                        lonely part of the country, and service there was extremely 
                        tedious to those who were condemned to it. Sam's minstrelsy, therefore, was more than
                        welcome as something that pleasantly broke the monotony, and the officers concerned were anxious
                        to keep the amusing fellow employed at the post, lest he go elsewhere. They gave him all sorts
                        of odd jobs to do, from blacking boots and polishing spurs and buckles, to grooming a horse when
                        privileged in that way, to show his skill in "puttin' of a satin dress onto a
                        good animal," as he called the process.
                    Agatha had provided the boy with a small sum of money for use in emergencies, and, as his living
                        had cost him nothing, he had considerably added to its amount. He cherished it jealously,
                        feeling that it might prove to be his readiest tool in accomplishing his purposes.
                    For a time he was not permitted to enter the hospital, which was nothing more than an old barn in
                        which a floor had been laid and windows cut. Four sentries guarded it, one on each of its sides.
                        The patients within numbered about fifteen, all of them wounded Confederate officers, for whom
                        this provision had been made until such  time as they should be
                        sufficiently recovered to be taken North to a military prison.
                    Being in no regular way employed at the post, Sam was free to go and come as he pleased, and he
                        did a good deal of night-prowling at this time. He managed in that way to establish relations
                        with certain of Agatha's friends, whose residence was ten or a dozen miles away. He
                        visited them at intervals in order to hear from Agatha, and report to her through them. He had
                        not dared inquire concerning his master in any direct way, or to reveal his interest in any of
                        the hospital patients. But when two of them had died, he had asked one of the servitors about
                        the place what their names were, and had thus satisfied himself that neither of them was Captain
                        Pegram. By keeping his ears on the alert, he had learned also that there were not likely to be
                        any further deaths, and that the remaining wounded men were slowly, but quite surely,
                        recovering. Still further, he had heard one of the doctors, in conversation with the other,
                        comment upon the remarkable vitality of Captain Pegram.
                    "That wound would have killed almost any other man I ever saw, but upon my word the man
                             is getting well. Barring accidents, I regard him now as
                        pretty nearly out of danger."
                    All this Sam duly reported to Agatha through her friends. It greatly comforted her, but it
                        seriously alarmed Sam. For Sam had learned the ways of the place, and he knew that there was
                        haste made to send every patient North, as soon as he was in condition to be removed without
                        serious danger to his life; and Sam had begun to cherish hopes and lay plans which would
                        certainly come to nothing if his master should be removed from the hospital to a military
                        prison.
                    He determined, therefore, to find some way of getting into the hospital, communicating with his
                        master, and finding out for himself precisely what the prospects were.
                    It was winter now, and besides the snow there was much mud around the hospital, which was freely
                        tracked into it by all who entered. Peter, the rheumatic old negro man who was employed to scrub
                        the place, complained bitterly of this. He said to Sam one day:
                    "Dese heah doctahs an' dese heah 'tendants is mighty pahticklah to
                        have de place keeped scrumptiously clean, but dey's mighty onpahticklah  to wipe dar boots 'fo' enterin' de
                        hospital. Ole Pete's done got mos' enough o' dis heah job."
                    "Why don't yo' quit it, den?" asked Sam, with seeming
                        indifference.
                    "'Case I can't 'ford' to. I ain't got no
                        udder 'ployment fer de rest o' de wintah, an' it's a long
                        ways to blackberry time."
                    "How much does dey gib yo' fer a-doin' of it?"
                    "'Mos' nothin' 'talla dollah an' a half a
                        month an' my bo'd."
                    "Yes, an' de job won't las' long, nuther," said Sam,
                        sympathetically, "'cordin' to what I heah. De rebel officers is all
                        a-gwine to git well, I done heah de doctahs say, an' when dey does dat, dey'll
                        be shipped off Norf, an' dis heah 'stablishment'll be broke up.
                        You'se too ole fer sich wuk, anyways, Uncle Pete. Yo' oughter be
                        a-nussin' o' yer knees by a fire somewhars, 'stead o'
                        warin' of 'em out a-scrubbin' flo's. You'se got a
                        lot o' prayin' to do yit, 'fo' yo'
                        dies,'nuff to use up what knees you'se got left. Give up de job. Uncle Pete,
                        and go off wha' you kin make yer peace wid de Lawd, as de preachahs says you
                        must."
                    
                    "But I cawn't, I tell you! I ain't got no money, an' I
                        ain't got no 'ployment, 'ceptin' dis heah
                        scrubbin'. Ef I had five dollahs, Ole Pete wouldn't be heah fer a day
                        later'n day afteh tomorrowdat's pay-day."
                    Sam sat silent for a time as if meditating on what he had it in mind to say, before committing
                        himself to the rash proposal. Finally, he turned to the old man, and said:
                    "Look heah, Uncle Pete, I'se sorry fer you, sho' 'nuff I is.
                        I'se done 'cumulated a little money, by close scrimpin', an'
                        I'm half a mind to help yo' out. Lemme see. You'se a-gwine to git a
                        dollah an' a half clay after to-morrow. I kin spar yo' six dollahs
                        mo'. Dat'll make seben dollahs an' a half. I'll do it ef
                        you'll take pity on yerse'f an' go to town an' git
                        yerse'f a easier sort o' wuk. Yo' kin owe me de six dollahs tell you
                        git rich enough to pay it back."
                    The old man was inclined to be suspicious of a generosity of which he had never known the equal.
                    "Who'se a-gwine to take de job ef I gibs it up?" he asked.
                    "What de debbil do you k'yar 'bout dat?"  asked Sam. "Anyhow, dey ain't a-gwine to raise de wages.
                        Yo' kin jes' bet yo' life on dat. Yo' kin do jes'
                        as yo' please 'bout 'ceptin' de offer I done made you. I
                        oughtn't to 'a' made it, but I'se always a-makin'
                        of a fool o' myse'f, when my feelin's is touched. Six dollahs is a
                        lot o' money, hit is. Maybe yo' think I'm Mr.
                        Astor, to go a-throwin' of money away like dat, or, maybe yo'se Mr. Astor
                        yerse'f, to be hesitatin' 'bout a-'ceptin' of it.
                        Reckon I bettah withdraw de offah"
                    "Who'se a-hesitatin'?" broke in old Peter,
                        hurriedly." I ain't never thought o' hesitatin', Sam.
                        I'll take de money sho', an' I thank you kindly for yer generosity,
                        Sam. You'se a mighty fine boy, Sam, an' I'se always liked you ever
                        since I fust knowed you. Now dat you'se a-behavin' jes' like as if
                        yo' was my own chile, I reck'lec' dat I always had a fatherly
                        feelin' fob you, Sam. Lemme have de money now, Sam, so's I kin go to sleep
                        to-night a-feelin' I ain't got but one mo' day to do dis heah sort
                        o' wuk."
                    "Yo' won't change yo' mind?" asked Sam.
                    "Sartain sho'! Wish I may die ef I do."
                    Sam regarded that oath as one likely to be  binding upon any negro
                        conscience, but he wished to take no risks; so putting on an air of great solemnity, and pushing
                        his face to within four inches of the old man's, he said:
                    "Now you'se done swore it by de 'wish I may die,'
                        an' you mus' keep dat sw'ar. Ef yo' don't,
                        it'll be my solemn duty to carry out yo' wish by killin' you
                        myse'f, an', 'fore de Lawd, I'll do it. Heah's de
                        money."
                
                
                
                    XXIV
                    FLIGHT
                    
                    SAM had so far commended himself by alertness and thoroughness in whatever he did, that he had no
                        difficulty in securing what he called "de scrubbin' contract." He now
                        had perfect freedom of hospital ingress and egress, but he felt that he must be cautious,
                        especially in his first revelation of his presence to his master, who, he was confident, knew
                        nothing of his being there. He feared to surprise some exclamation from Pegram, which would, as
                        he phrased it, "give de whole snap away."
                    So on the first morning he began his scrubbing at the outer door, and moved slowly on his hands
                        and knees along the line of cots, taking sly glimpses of their occupants as he went. It was not
                        till he reached the farther corner of the large room that he found the cot of his master. Then
                             with his face near the floor and scrubbing violently with his
                        brush, he began intoning in a low voice:
                    "Don't say nothin', don't say nothin',
                        don't say nothin' when yo' sees me. It's Sam sho'
                        'nuff, an' Sam's done come, an' don't you give it
                        away."
                    To any one ten feet away, all this sounded like the humming of a chant by one who unconsciously
                        sang below the breath as he worked. But to Baillie, who lay within a foot or two of the
                        boy's head, the words were perfectly audible, and presently, without moving, and in a
                        low murmuring voice, he said:
                    "I understand, Sam. I knew you were here. I heard you singing outside, many days
                        ago."
                    Then the wounded man pretended to have difficulty in adjusting his blankets, and Sam rose and
                        bent over the cot to help him. While doing so, he said:
                    "Mis' Agatha, she done brung me to New York, an' sent me heah to
                        fin' yo'. How's you a-gittin'? Tell me, so's I kin
                        report, an' tell me every day."
                    Baillie replied briefly that his wound was healing  and his
                        strength coming back, to which Sam answered:
                    "Don't you go fer to tell de doctah too much 'bout dat. Jes'
                        keep as sick as you kin, while you'se a-gittin' well. I'll tell you
                        why another time. Git 'quainted wid Sam more an' more ebery day, Mas'
                        Baillie, so's we kin talk 'thout 'rousin'
                        'spicion."
                    In aid of this, Sam took pains, as the days went on, to establish relations with all the other
                        patients who were well enough to talk, and as his inconsequent humour seemed to amuse them, the
                        doctors made no objection to his loquaciousness.
                    It was one of the articles in Sam's philosophical creed that "yo'
                        cawn't have too many frien's, 'case yo' cawn't
                        never know when you may need 'em." Accordingly, he cultivated acquaintance
                        with everybody, high and low, about the place, including the peculiarly surly man who brought
                        the coal and the kindling-wood for the establishment. That personage was a white man of
                        melancholy temper and extraordinary taciturnity. He went in and out of the place, wearing a long
                        overcoat that had probably seen better days, but  so long ago as
                        to have forgotten all about them. The only other article of his clothing that was visible was a
                        slouch hat, the brim of which had completely lost courage and could no longer pretend to stand
                        out from the head that wore it, but hung down like a limp lambrequin over the man's
                        eyes. The man himself seemed in an equally discouraged condition. He shambled rather than
                        walked, and never answered a question or responded to a salutation, except in Sam's
                        case. To him, when the two were alone, the man would sometimes speak a few words.
                    Sam was daily and hourly studying everybody and everything about him, with a view to
                        possibilities. Nobody was too insignificant and nothing too trivial for him to note and consider
                        and remember. "Yo' cawn't never know," he philosophised,
                        "what rock will come handiest when yo' wants to frow it at a
                        squirrel."
                    As the weeks passed, Baillie Pegram so improved that he sat up, and even walked about the place a
                        little. One day, Sam learned that Baillie and three others were deemed well enough to be removed
                        from hospital to prison, and that the transfer was to be made two days later. During  the night after this discovery was made, Sam trudged through a
                        blinding snow-stormthe last, probably, of the waning winterto the house of Agatha's
                        friends, ten or a dozen miles away, and back again through the snow-drifts, arriving at the
                        hospital about daylight, as he had often done before, after a prowling by night.
                    He had made all his arrangements but one, and he had armed himself for that, by drawing upon
                        Agatha's friends for ten dollars in small bills.
                    During the day, he managed to tell his master all that was necessary concerning the emergency,
                        and his plans for meeting it.
                    "To-morrow 'bout sundown, Mas' Baillie," he said, at the
                        last. "'Member de hour. When Sam speaks to yo' at de front
                        do', yo' is to go ter yo' cot. Yo'll fin' de coat
                        an' de hat a-waitin' fo' yo'. Put 'em on quick,
                        an' pull de hat down clos't, an' turn de collah up high. Den walk
                        out'n de back do' fru de wood-shed, an' pass out de gate,
                        jes' as ef yo' was de ole man, sayin' nuffin' to nobody.
                        Yo' mustn't walk straight like yo' always does, but
                        shufflin'-like, jes' as de ole man does. Den mount de coal kyart an'
                        drive  up to de forks o' de road. Den shuffle
                        out'n de coat an' hat, an' git inter de sleigh. Yo'
                        frien's 'ull take kyar o' de res'."
                    Having thus instructed his master, Sam postponed further proceedings until the morrow. He had not
                        yet opened negotiations with the old coal-man,negotiations upon which the success of his plans
                        depended,but he trusted his wits and his determination to accomplish what he desired, and he had
                        no notion of risking all by unnecessary haste.
                    Even when the coal-man came during the next morning, Sam contented himself with asking if he
                        would certainly come again with his cart about sunset of that day, as he usually did. Having
                        reassured himself on that point, Sam said nothing more, except that he would himself be at
                        leisure at that time and would help bring in the load of wood.
                    Then Sam finished his scrubbing, and spent the afternoon in repairing the apparatus of his
                        handicraft. He readjusted the hoops on his scrubbing-bucket, scoured his brushes, and ground the
                        knife that he was accustomed to use in scraping the floor wherever medicines had been spilled
                             or other stains had been made, for Sam had a well earned
                        reputation for thoroughness in his work. Curiously enough, he this time ground the knife-blade
                        to a slender point, "handy," he said, "fer gittin' into
                        cracks wid."
                    When the coal-man came with a load of wood, a little before sunset, dumping it outside the gate,
                        Sam was ready to help him carry it in and split it into kindlings within the shed. For this
                        work, when the wood had all been brought in, the old man laid off his overcoat and hat.
                        Thereupon Sam opened negotiations.
                    "I'se a-gwine to a frolic to-night," he said, "an' I
                        se a-gwine to have a mighty good time a-playin' o' de banjo an'
                        a-dancin', but hit's powerful cold, an' de walk's a mighty
                        long one."
                    Then, as if a sudden thought had come to him, he said:
                    "Tell yo' what! 'Spose yo' lemme wahr yo' overcoat.
                        Yo' ain't got far to go, an' I'll give yo' a dollah
                        fer de use of it."
                    The old man hesitated, and Sam was in a hurry.
                    "I'll make it two dollahs, an' heah's de money clean
                        an' new," pulling out the bills. "Say de word an'
                        it's your'n."
                    
                    The offer was too tempting to be resisted, and the bargain was quickly made.
                    "Reckon I better go brush it up," said Sam, taking the garment and managing to
                        fold the soft hat into it. He passed through the door into the hospital, cast his bundle upon
                        Baillie Pegram's bed, and walked quickly to the front door, where his master was
                        standing looking out upon the snow, now darkening in the falling dusk.
                    "All ready," the negro said, in an undertone, as he passed, and Captain Pegram
                        wearily turned and walked toward his cot. Half a minute later, what looked like the old coal-man
                        passed into the wood-shed, and out of it at the rear, whence, with shuffling steps he walked to
                        and through the gate, mounted the coal-cart, and slowly drove away.
                    Sam, hurrying around the building, entered the wood-shed just as his master was leaving it, and
                        confronted the owner of the coat and hat that Pegram wore. He was none too soon, for the old
                        man, seeing Pegram pass, clad in his garments, thought he was being robbed, and was about to
                        raise a hue and cry. Sam interposed with an assumption of authority:
                    
                    "Stay right whah yo' is," he commanded, "an'
                        don't make no noise, do yo' heah? Ef you keeps quiet-like, an' stays
                        heah at wuk fer ha'f a hour, an' den goes away 'bout yo'
                        business a-sayin' nothin' to nobody, you'll git another dollah,
                        an' I'll tell yo' whah to fin' yo' clo'se.
                        Ef yo' don't do jes' as I tells yo', yo'll git dis,
                        an' yo' won't never have no 'casion fer no clo'se
                        no more. Do yo' heah?"
                    Sam held the keenly pointed knife in his hand, while the old man worked for the appointed space
                        of half an hour. At the end of that time, Sam said:
                    "Now yo' may go, an' heah's yo' dollah.
                        Yo'll fin' yer kyart at de forks o' de road, an' yer coat
                        an' hat'll be in de kyart. But min' you don't never know
                        nothin' 'bout dis heah transaction, fer ef yo' ever peeps,
                        dey'll hang yo' fer helpin' a pris'ner to escape,
                        an' I'll kill yo' besides. Go, now. Do yo' heah?"
                    Sam watched him pass out through the gate and turn up the road. When he had disappeared, the
                        black strategist muttered:
                    "Reckon dat suggestion 'bout gittin' hisse'f 'rested
                        fer helpin' a pris'ner 'scape, will sort o'  bar itse'f in on de ole man's min'. He
                        won't never let hisse'f 'member nuffin' 'bout dis
                        heah. Anyhow, Mas' Baillie's gone, an' it's time Sam was
                        a-gittin' out o' this, too."
                    With that the boy secured his banjo and bade good night to the surgeon whom he met outside,
                        saying that he was going to have a "powerful good time at de frolic."
                
                
                
                    XXV
                    A NARROW ESCAPE
                    
                    BAILLIE PEGRAM found little difficulty in imitating the shambling gait of the old coal man as he
                        walked to the hospital exit. In his weakness he could hardly have walked in any other fashion.
                        He managed with difficulty to climb upon the cart, and to endure the painful drive to the forks
                        of the road, somewhat more than half a mile away.
                    There he found a sleigh awaiting him, with four women in it, all muffled to the eyes in
                        buffalo-robes, and a gentleman wrapped in a fur overcoat, on the box. The gentleman gave the
                        reins to one of the ladies, and proceeded to help Pegram from the coal-cart, while the others
                        stepped out upon the hard frozen snow.
                    The body of the sleigh was deep, and it had been filled with fresh rye straw. One of the
                        gentlewomen parted this to either side, and spread  a fur robe
                        upon the floor beneath, into which the gentleman hurriedly helped Baillie, drawing the robe
                        closely together over him, and replacing the straw so that no part of the fur wrapping beneath
                        could be seen.
                    All this was done quickly, and without a word, the women resumed their seats, the man cracked his
                        whip, and the spirited horses set off at a merry pace.
                    By way of precaution, a roundabout road was followed, and it was late when the sleighing-party
                        reached its destination. There the women alighted and passed into the house. The gentleman drove
                        the sleigh into the barn, with Baillie Pegram still lying under the straw. When the horses were
                        unhitched, their owner directed the negro, who took charge of them, to walk them back and forth
                        down by the stables to cool them off, before putting them into their stalls. It was not until
                        the hostler was well away from the barn that his master removed the seats and lifted Baillie
                        from his hiding-place under the straw. By that time, a young man, perhaps thirty years old, and
                        strong of frame, had appeared, and the two hurriedly carried the now nearly helpless  man into the house, where a bed awaited him. Stripping him, the
                        younger man proceeded to examine the wound with the skilful eye of a surgeon.
                    "The wound has suffered no injury," he presently said to his host,
                        "but the man is greatly exhausted. Will you heat some flat-irons, and place them at his
                        feet? He must have nourishment, too, but of course it won't do to bring any of the
                        servants in here"
                    "I'll manage that," said the host. "We are all supposed to
                        have been out on a lark, and I always have a late supper after that sort of thing. I'll
                        have it served in the room that opens out of this. As soon as it comes, I'll send the
                        servants away, and we can feed your patient from our table."
                    In the meanwhile, the ever faithful Sam, half frozen but full of courage and determination, was
                        toiling over the flint-like snow, trying to reach the house before the morning. In order that he
                        might the better keep  his hands from freezing, he cast his banjo
                        into a snow-filled ravine, saying:
                    "Reckon I sha'n't need you any more, an' ef I does, I kin git
                        another." With that, he thrust his hands into his pockets, where his accumulated
                        earnings reassured him as to his ability to buy banjos at will.
                    It had been a part of the plan of rescue that Baillie should remain but a brief while at his
                        present stopping-place. It was deemed certain that a search for him would be made as soon as his
                        escape should be discovered, and the house in which he had been put to bed that night was likely
                        to be one of the first to be examined, wherefore Sam was anxious to reach that destination as
                        soon as possible, lest he miss his master.
                    But when the morning came, Baillie was in a high fever, and the doctor forbade all attempts to
                        remove him, for a time at least. As the day advanced, the fever subsided somewhat, and Baillie
                        grew anxious to continue his journey. Finally, the doctor hit upon a plan of procedure.
                    "You simply must not now undertake the long journey we had intended you to make to-day,
                        Captain," he said, "but the distance to my house in the town is comparatively
                        small. I might manage to take you there this afternoon, if you think you can sit up in my sleigh
                        for a five-mile  ride, and then get out at my door and walk into
                        the house without tottering on your legs."
                    Baillie eagerly protested his ability to endure the ride, and the doctor proceeded to arrange for
                        it. Some clothing had already been provided in the house for Baillie to don in place of his
                        uniform, and the doctor now said:
                    "I'm going to drive home at once. I'll be back before three
                        o'clock. Get the captain into his citizen's clothes and have him ready by that
                        time, but let him lie down till I come, to spare his strength. I've a patient in town,
                        a consumptive, and I've been taking him out with me every fine day, for the sake of the
                        air. He is not very ill at present, but he is one of us, and will be just as sick as I tell him
                        to be when I get him here. I'm afraid I shall find it necessary to ask you to keep him
                        for a day or two."
                    The hint was understood, and the doctor drove away behind a pair of good trotters. Before the
                        appointed time he returned, bringing his patient with him, and at his request the sick man was
                        put to bed in the room where Baillie had passed the night.
                    A few minutes later a party of soldiers rode  up and reported that
                        they were under orders to search the house for an escaped Confederate officer. The doctor, with
                        a well assumed look of professional concern on his face, said to the officer in command of the
                        squad:
                    "That is a trifle unfortunate just now. I have a patient in the adjoining rooma young
                        man in pulmonary consumption. Of course you'll have to search the house, but I beg you,
                        Lieutenant, to spare my patient. His condition is such that"
                    "I'll be very careful, I assure you. I'll go alone to search that
                        room, and make as little disturbance as possible."
                    Still wearing a look of anxiety, the doctor said:
                    "Couldn't you leave that room unexamined, Lieutenant? I assure you on my honour
                        that there is nobody there except my patient."
                    The physician's anxiety suggested a new thought to the officer's mind.
                    "I take your word for that, Doctor. I believe you when you tell me there's
                        nobody but your patient in that room. But your patient may happen to be the very man we want,
                        even without your knowing the fact. Our man is very ill, 
                        recovering from a severe wound,and he'd be sure to need a doctor after walking, as he
                        must have done, a dozen miles in this snow. Pardon me, Doctor; I do not mean to accuse you of
                        any complicity; but you are a physician, bound to do your best for any patient who sends for
                        you, and to keep his confidenceprofessional ethics requires that. I shall not blame you if I
                        find your patient to be my man. You are doing only your professional duty. But I must see the
                        man. I can tell whether he's the one we want. Our man has been shot through the body,
                        and the wound is not yet completely healed. My orders are to look for that wound on every man I
                        have reason to suspect, and I must do my duty."
                    "O, certainly," replied the physician. "You'll find no wounds
                        on my patient, and I earnestly beg you to avoid exciting him more than is absolutely necessary.
                        You see, in his condition, any undue excitement"
                    "O, I'll be very careful, Doctor, very careful, indeed."
                    "Thank you. It is very good of you. You see, as I was saying, in his condition, any
                        undue excitement"
                    
                    "O, yes, I know all about that. You may trust me to be careful."
                    "Again thank you. Come, Bob," looking at his watch, and addressing Baillie, who
                        was sitting by, "we must be going. I've half a dozen patients waiting for
                        me."
                    Baillie rose, nerving himself for the effort, bowed to the lieutenant, and walked out of the
                        house. A minute later, muffled to the ears in furs, the two men were speeding over the snow,
                        with Sam clinging on behind, and playing the part of "doctah's man."
                    "Here," said the physician, handing Baillie a flask, "take a stiff
                        swig of that. You must keep up your strength." Then after he had replaced the flask in
                        his overcoat pocket, he chuckled:
                    "That was very neatly doneto have you walk away in that fashion from under the very nose
                        of the man who was looking for you."
                    Sam echoed the chuckle, and Baillie said:
                    "I hope your patient will suffer no harm from all this!"
                    "O, not a bit. He's in the game, and he'll enjoy it, especially after
                        they are gone, and he suddenly recovers from his extreme illness."
                    
                    "But why was it necessary to take him there at all?"
                    "Why, under the circumstances, it would never have done for me to be seen driving away
                        from there with a companion when I had been seen driving out there alone. As it is, your
                        presence in the sleigh is satisfactorily accounted for to everybody who sees us. But how about
                        your discarded uniform? Won't they find that?"
                    "No. Sam reduced it to ashes early this morning, and then aired the room to get rid of
                        the smell of burning wool."
                    "That was excellent. Who thought of doing it?"
                    "Sam."
                
                
                
                    XXVI
                    MADEMOISELLE ROLAND
                    
                    DURING all those months of waiting, Agatha Ronald had remained in New York, under the advice of
                        Marshall Pollard's friend, who was accustomed to put his counsel into the form of
                        something like a command whenever that seemed to him necessary. She was urged to remain in the
                        city, too, by all her friends who were near Baillie Pegram's prison hospital.
                        "Stay where you are," was the burden of all their letters. "You can
                        do no good here, and you may do much harm if you attempt to come, while you will very surely be
                        needed where you are, if we succeed, as we hope, in effecting Captain Pegram's escape.
                        We shall do all that is possible to accomplish that, but when we do he will still be a very ill
                        man,for if he is to escape at all, it must be before he sufficiently recovers to be  sent to a prison. You will be needed then to care for him
                        somewhere, for, of course, he must not remain in this quarter of the country. Be patient and
                        trust usand Sam. For that boy is a wonder of devotion and ingenuity. He has just left us to
                        return to the hospital before morning. He makes the journey on foot by night, three times a
                        week, walking twenty odd miles each trip, in all sorts of weather. When we remonstrated with him
                        to-nightfor a fearful storm is ragingand told him he should have waited for better weather, he
                        indignantly replied: 'Den Mis' Agatha would have had to wait a whole day
                        beyond her time fer news. No sirree. Sam's a-gwine to come on de 'pinted
                        nights, ef it rains pitchforks an' de win' blows de ha'r offen he
                        haid.'"
                    So Agatha busied herself with such concerns as were hers. She laboured hard to improve the
                        service of her "underground railroad," and sent medicines and surgical
                        appliances through the lines with a frequency that surprised the authorities at Richmond. She
                        corresponded in a disguised way with her friends in and near Washington, offering all she could
                        of helpful suggestion  to them and through them to Sam. It was by
                        her command that Sam told his master, while in the hospital, just where and how she was to be
                        found if he should escape, and how perfectly equipped she was to come to his assistance in such
                        a case.
                    For the rest, she battled bravely with her sorrow and her anxieties, lest they unfit her for
                        prompt and judicious action when the time for action should come. In brief, she behaved like the
                        devoted and heroic woman she was.
                    After long months of weary waiting, her pulse was one day set bounding by the tidings that the
                        master of Warlock had escaped from the hospital, and was in safe hands. This news was
                        communicated by means of a telegram, which said only, "Dress goods satisfactory.
                        Trimmings excellent."
                    Fuller news came by letter a day later, and it was far less joyous. It told her that the
                        exposure, exertion, and excitement of the escape had brought Baillie into a condition of
                        dangerous illness; that he lay helpless in the physician's house; that no one was
                        permitted to see him for fear of discovery,  except Sam, who had
                        been installed as nurse.
                    Other letters followed this daily for a week, each more discouraging than the last. Finally came
                        one from the doctor himself, in answer to Agatha's demand, in which he wrote:
                    "I labour under many difficulties. Captain Pegram's presence in my house must
                        be concealed as long as that can he accomplished. I am a bachelor, and I often receive patients
                        for treatment here, but in this case the man's illness is the consequence of a bullet
                        wound, and should that fact become known, it would pretty certainly cause an inquiry; for my
                        Southern sentiments are well known, and in the eyes of the governmental secret service, I am
                        very distinctly a 'suspect.' The consequence of all this is that I dare not
                        introduce a competent nurse into the house.
                    "Sam is willing and absolutely devoted, but of course he knows nothing of nursing. Yet
                        nursing, and especially the tender nursing of a woman, is this patient's chief need. If
                        he were in New York now, where political rancour is held in check by the fact that sentiment
                        there is divided, and where people are too busy to meddle with 
                        other people's affairs, we could manage the matter easily. You can scarcely imagine how
                        different the conditions here are. I might easily command the services of any one of half a
                        dozen or a dozen gentlewomen of Maryland whom I could trust absolutely. But the very fact of my
                        bringing one of them here to nurse a stranger, would set a pack of clever detectives on the
                        scent, and within twenty-four hours they would know the exact truth.
                    "You will see, my dear young lady, how perplexing a situation it is. I hoped at first
                        that Capt. P. might presently rally sufficiently to stand the trip to New York. I could have
                        managed that. But he simply cannot be moved now, or for many weeks to come. It would be murder
                        to make the attempt."
                    When Agatha had read this latter, her mind was instantly made up.
                    "I must go to him at all hazards and all costs, and nurse him myself. But first I must
                        think out a way, so that there may be no failure."
                    She sat for an hour thinking and planning. Then she got up and hurriedly scribbled two letters.
                        It was after nightfall, and Agatha had  never yet gone into the
                        streets by night. Her terror of that particular form of danger was great. But these letters must
                        be posted at once, and by her own hand. There were no lamp-post mailing-boxes in those
                        half-civilised days, and she must travel many blocks to reach the nearest post-office station.
                        She took up the little pistol which she had so long carried for the purpose of defending her
                        honour by self-destruction, if need should arise, examined its chambers, placed it beneath her
                        cloak, and hurried into the street.
                    Then, as now, to the shame of what we call our civilisation, no woman could traverse the
                        thoroughfares of a great city after dark and unattended without risk of insult or worse. Then,
                        as now, a costly police force utterly ignored its duty of so vigilantly protecting the helpless
                        that the streets should be as safe to women as to men, by night as well as by day.
                    During that little walk of a dozen city blocks through streets that the public adequately paid to
                        have securely guarded, Agatha felt far more of fear than she had experienced while facing the
                        canister fire of Baillie Pegram's guns.
                    She escaped molestation more by good fortune  than by any security
                        that police protection afforded or now affords to the wives and daughters of a community that
                        calls itself civilised, and pays princely sums every year for a police protection that it does
                        not get.
                    One of her letters was addressed to a friend in Baltimore. It gave her the address of Marshall
                        Pollard's friend, the banker, and added:
                    "On receipt of this you are to telegraph, asking him to find and send you a nurse who
                        speaks Frencha Frenchwoman preferred. He will send me, in response to the demand, as Mile.
                        Roland,an anagram of my own name. I shall speak nothing but French in your house, and
                        afterward."
                    To Baillie's doctor she wrote:
                    "I think I see a way out of your difficulties. Can you not make a new diagnosis of
                        Captain Pegram's casefinding him ill of tuberculosis, or typhoid, or some other wasting
                        malady corresponding with his external appearance, thus concealing the fact that he suffers in
                        consequence of a wound? He speaks French like a ParisianI suppose he can even dream in that
                        language, as I always doso for safety and by way of  forwarding my
                        plan, you may regard him as a French gentleman who has fallen ill during his travels in America,
                        and come to you for treatment. You are to be very anxious to secure a French nurse for him, and
                        to that end you may write as soon as you receive this, to the gentlewoman whose address in
                        Baltimore is enclosed, asking her to procure such a nurse if she can. I will he that nurse, and
                        will know no English during my stay. This plan will enable me to go to Captain Pegram's
                        bedside without exciting the least suspicion, and, when he is sufficiently recovered to travel,
                        there will be little if any trouble in arranging for his nurse to take the convalescent to New
                        York, and thence to Europe. Once out of the country and well again, he can go to Nassau, and
                        thence to a Southern port on one of the English blockade-running ships. To secure all this we
                        must scrupulously maintain the fiction that he is a Frenchman, and I a French nurse."
                    Agatha's first care on the next morning was to visit the banker and instruct him as to
                        the part he was to play in the conspiracy, when the telegram should come from Baltimore. That
                             done, she plied her needle nimbly, fashioning caps, aprons
                        and the like, such as French nurses only wore at that time, before there were any trained nurses
                        other than Frenchwomen among us. She was already wearing black gowns, of course, and when she
                        added a jet rosary and a stiffly starched broad white collar to her costume, she had no need to
                        inform anybody that she was a hospital-bred nurse from Paris.
                    In the little Maryland town where Baillie Pegram lay in a stupor, her advent attracted much
                        curious attention, especially because of the jaunty little nurse's cap she wore, and of
                        her inability to speak English. But this curiosity averted, rather than invited suspicion, as
                        Agatha had intended and planned that it should do.
                    The physician's knowledge of the French language was scant, and his pronunciation was
                        execrably bad, but he managed to greet the nurse in that tongue on her arrival, and to say, very
                        gallantly:
                    "Now my patient should surely get well. Under care of such a nurse even a dead man might
                        be persuaded back to life."
                
                
                
                    XXVII
                    AGATHA'S WONDER-STORY
                    
                    AGATHA had been for more than a week at Baillie Pegram's bedside before he manifested
                        any consciousness of her presence. But from the very first her ministrations had seemed to
                        soothe him.
                    Even when his fever brought active delirium with it, a word from his soft-voiced French nurse
                        quieted him, and each day showed less of fever and more of strength.
                    At last one day he lay quiet, and Agatha sat stitching at something near the foot of the bed. Her
                        face was bent over her work, so that she did not see when he opened his eyes and gazed steadily
                        at her for a time. Not until she looked up, as she was accustomed watchfully to do every little
                        while, did he fully recognise her. Then, in a feeble voice, he spoke her namenothing more.
                    She gently readjusted his pillows, and he fell  into a more natural
                        sleep than he had known since his relapse had befallen him.
                    When he waked again, Sam was sitting by, Agatha having left the room for a brief while.
                    "Who has been here, Sam?" the sick man asked.
                    "Nobody, Mas' Baillie, on'y de French lady what's
                        a-nussin' of yo'," replied Sam, lying with the utmost equanimity, in
                        accordance with what he believed to be the spirit of his instructions.
                    "I dreamed it, then. Tell me where I am, Sam."
                    "I ain't Sam an' yo' ain't Mas' Baillie;
                        I'se jes' garshong, an' yo'se a French
                        gentleman, an' yo' cawn't talk nuffin' but French,
                        an' so 'tain't no use fer yo' to try to talk to me.
                        Yo' mus' jes' go to sleep, now, an' when de French nuss
                        comes back, yo' kin ax her in French like whatsomever yo' wants to
                        know."
                    Baillie's bewildered wits struggled for a moment with the problem of his own identity,
                        but before the French nurse returned he had fallen asleep again. It was not until the next day,
                        therefore, that he had opportunity to ask Agatha  anything, but
                        his fever had abated by that time, and his mind was rapidly clearing.
                    "Tell me about it all, please," he said to her.
                    "Shspeak only in French," she replied, herself speaking in that tongue.
                        "It is very necessary, and address me as Mademoiselle Roland."
                    Then she told him so much as was necessary to prevent him from exercising his imagination in an
                        exciting way. When she had explained that he was still in the house of the doctor who had aided
                        him in his escape, and that the pretence of his being a French gentleman and she a French nurse
                        was necessary for safety, she added:
                    "I came to you when you were very ill and needed me, and I shall stay with you so long
                        as you need me. You mustn't talk now. Wait a few days, and you will be strong
                        enough."
                    The prediction was fulfilled, and a few days later Agatha told him the whole story of her own and
                        Sam's search for him, dwelling particularly upon Sam's devotion and the
                        ingenuity he had brought to bear upon the problem of rescue. For at times when there was no
                        possibility that anybody should overhear, Agatha had made  Sam
                        tell her all the details of that affair, until she knew as well as he did every word he had
                        spoken and every step he had taken in the execution of his purpose.
                    Baillie's progress toward recovery was necessarily slow, but it was steady and
                        continuous, and after many weeks, when he was permitted to sit up for awhile each day, he begged
                        to hear about the progress of the war.
                    It was now September, 1862, and what she had to tell him was one of the most dramatic stories
                        that the history of our American war has to relate.
                    McClellan had proved himself to be a great organiser and a masterful engineer, and he had at last
                        tried to prove himself to be also a great general.
                    He had so perfectly fortified the city of Washington that a brigade or a division or two might
                        easily hold it against the most determined hosts. He had organised the "regiments
                        cowering upon the Potomac," and the scores of other regiments that had come pouring
                        into the capital, into one of the finest armies that had ever taken the field in any country in
                        the world. He had multiplied his  artillery, and swelled his
                        cavalry force to proportions that rendered it numerically superior to Stuart's
                        "Mamalukes." He had so perfected his supply
                        departmentsquartermaster's, commissary's, medical, and ordnancethat their work
                        was accomplished with the precision, the certainty, and the smoothness of well-ordered
                        machinery.
                    He had brought under his immediate command a perfectly organised army, numbering nearly or quite
                        two hundred thousand men.
                            Rossiter Johnson, in his "History of the War of Secession," says that
                                121,000 were sent to Fortress Monroe and seventy thousand left at Washington, besides
                                McDowell's corps and Bleuker's division.
                         The Confederates had in Virginia about one-fourth that number available for the defence
                        of Richmond. Nor could this army of defence be reinforced from other parts of the South, for
                        during the long waiting-time in Virginia, events of the most vital importance had been occurring
                        at the West. Chief of these in importance, though the government at Washington was slow to
                        recognise the fact, was the discovery there of a really capable commanderGeneral Grant. He had
                        captured Forts Henry and Donelson, thus gaining control  of the
                        Tennessee and Cumberland Rivers, breaking the Confederate line of defence, and pushing the
                        Southern armies completely out of Kentucky, and almost out of Tennessee. He was preparing, when
                        McClellan moved, to complete that part of his work by fighting the tremendous battle of Shiloh.
                    Thus the Confederates could not afford to draw so much as a single regiment or battery from that
                        field for the strengthening of Johnston's force in Virginia. Finally, early in March,
                        Johnston had withdrawn from Centreville and Manassas to the immediate neighbourhood of Richmond.
                    It was in such circumstances that McClellan at last undertook to use the great army he had
                        created, for the purpose it was meant to accomplish. Early in the spring, he transferred 120,000
                        men by water to Fortress Monroe, leaving seventy thousand at and near Washington, to hold that
                        capital secure. Somewhat more than half of this force at Washington was to advance upon Richmond
                        by way of Fredericksburg, and add forty thousand men to McClellan's great army when he
                        should sit down before the Confederate capital. He, meanwhile, was to march  up the peninsula formed by the York and James Rivers, supported by the navy on
                        either side.
                    Richmond was seemingly doomed, and everywhere at the North the expectation was that McClellan,
                        with his overwhelming forces and his well-nigh perfect organisation, would make an end of the
                        war before the first anniversary of the battle of Manassas.
                    If McClellan had been half as capable in the field as he had proved himself to be in the work of
                        organisation, this might easily have happened. But he was cautious to a positively paralysing
                        degree. It was his habit of mind to overestimate his enemy's strength to his own
                        undoing. Thus when he began his advance up the peninsula, with nearly sixty thousand men, to be
                        almost immediately reinforced to one hundred thousand and more, he found a Confederate line
                        stretched across the peninsula at Yorktown. It consisted of thirteen thousand men under
                        Magruder, and with his enormous superiority of numbers, McClellan might have run over it in a
                        day, while with his transports, protected by gunboats, he might easily have carried his army by
                        it on either side, compelling its retreat or surrender. But in his excessive  caution he assumed that the entire Confederate force was
                        concentrated there, and his imagination doubled the strength of that force. He confidently
                        believed that the Yorktown lines were defended by an army of eighty thousand or more, and
                        instead of finding out the facts by an assault, he wasted nearly a month in scientifically
                        besieging the little force of thirteen thousand men, with an army six or eight times as great,
                        and a siege train of enormous strength.
                    When at last he had pushed his siege parallels near enough for an assault, he found his enemy
                        gone, and discovered that the great frowning cannon in their works were nothing more than wooden
                        logs, painted black, and mounted like heavy guns.
                    The North had not yet found a general capable of commanding the superb army it had created, or of
                        making effective use of those enormously superior resources which from the beginning had been at
                        its disposal. Grant had splendidly demonstrated his capacity at Shiloh, but Halleck had
                        immediately superseded him, and completely thrown away the opportunity there presented. Grant
                        was still denied any but volunteer rank,  and for many weeks after
                        Shiloh he was left, as he has himself recorded, with none but nominal command, and was not even
                        consulted by his immeasurably inferior superior.
                    McClellan at last reached the neighbourhood of Richmond, and placed his great army on the eastern
                        and northern fronts of the Confederate capital. But still permitting his imagination to mislead
                        him, he confidently believed the Confederate forces to be quite twice as numerous as they were
                        in fact. So instead of pressing them vigorously, as a more enterprising and less excessively
                        cautious commander would have done, he proceeded to fortify and for weeks kept his splendid army
                        idle in a pestilential swamp, whose miasms were far deadlier than bullets and shells could have
                        been.
                    At the end of May the Confederates assailed his left wing, believing that a flood in the river
                        had isolated it from the rest of the army, and a bloody five days' battle ensued, with
                        no decisive results, except to demonstrate the fighting quality of the troops under
                        McClellan's command.
                    Still he hesitated and fortified, and urgently called for reinforcements. These to the number  of forty thousand were on their way to join him, marching
                        directly southward from Washington.
                    But the Confederates had been more fortunate than their foes. They had found their great
                        commander, a piece of good fortune which did not happen to the Federal armies until nearly two
                        years later. After the battle of Seven Pines at the end of May and the beginning of June, Robert
                        E. Lee assumed personal command of the forces defending Richmond, and from that hour the great
                        game of war was played by him with a sagacity and a boldness that had not been seen before.
                    Lee's problem was to drive McClellan's army away from Richmond, and transfer
                        the scene of active hostilities to some more distant point. To that end he must prevent the
                        coming of McDowell with his army to McClellan's assistance. Accordingly he ordered
                        Jackson to sweep down the Shenandoah valley, threatening an advance upon Washington in its rear,
                        thus putting the Federals there upon their defence. He rightly believed that the excessive
                        concern felt at the North for the safety of the capital would make Jackson's operations
                        an occasion of great alarm.
                    
                    The result was precisely what Lee had intended. Jackson swept like a hurricane through the
                        valley, moving so rapidly and appearing so suddenly at unexpected and widely separated points as
                        to seem both ubiquitous and irresistible. The Federal army which was marching to reinforce
                        McClellan was promptly turned aside and sent over the mountains to meet and check Jackson. While
                        it was hurrying westward, Jackson suddenly slipped out of the valley and carried his
                        "foot cavalry"as his rapidly marching corps had come to be calledto the
                        neighbourhood of Richmond, where Lee was ready to fall upon his adversary in full force,
                        striking his right flank like a thunderbolt, pushing into his rear, pressing him back in
                        successive encounters, threatening his base of supplies on the York River, and finally
                        compelling him to retreat to the cover of his gunboats at Harrison's Landing on the
                        James.
                    All this constituted what is known as the "Seven Days' Battles." It
                        was a brilliant operation, attended at every step by heroic fighting on both sides, and by
                        consummate skill on bothfor if Lee's successful operation for his enemy's
                        dislodgment was good strategy. McClellan's successful 
                        withdrawal of his army from its imperilled position to one in which it could not be assailed,
                        was scarcely less so.
                    But still more dramatic events were to follow. McClellan had been driven away from the immediate
                        neighbourhood of the Confederate capital, but his new position at Harrison's Landing
                        was one from which he might at any moment advance again either upon Richmond or upon Petersburg,
                        which was afterward proved to be the military key to the capital. His army was still numerically
                        stronger than Lee's, and it might be reinforced at any time, and to any desired extent,
                        while Lee had already under his command every man that could be spared from other points. More
                        important still, the fighting strength of McClellan's forces had been bettered by the
                        battling they had done. The men were inured to war work now, and had improved in steadiness and
                        discipline under the tutelage of experience.
                    Except that its confidence in its general was somewhat impaired, the Army of the Potomac was a
                        stronger and more trustworthy war implement than it had been at the beginning. So long as it
                        should remain where it was, Lee must keep  the greater part of his
                        own force in the intrenchments in front of Richmond, and the seat of war must remain
                        discouragingly near the Confederate capital. In the meanwhile a new Federal force, called the
                        Army of Virginia, had been sent out from Washington under General John Pope, to assail Richmond
                        from the north and west, while securely covering Washington. Pope's base was at
                        Manassas, and his army had been pushed forward to the line of the Rappahannock, where there was
                        no army to meet it and check its advance upon Richmond.
                    Lee must act quickly. For should Pope come within striking-distance of Richmond on the northwest,
                        McClellan's army would very certainly advance from the east, and Richmond would be
                        threatened by a stronger force than ever before.
                    But Lee could not move in adequate force to meet and check Pope's advance, without
                        leaving Richmond undefended against any advance that McClellan might see fit to make. His
                        perplexing problem was to compel the withdrawal of McClellan, and the transfer of his army to
                        Washington.
                    To effect this, Lee again played upon the nervous  apprehension
                        felt in Washington for the safety of that city. He detached Jackson, and sent him to the
                        Rappahannock to threaten Pope, while remaining within reach of Richmond in case of need. This
                        movement increased the apprehension in Washington, and a considerable part of
                        McClellan's force was withdrawn by water. Thereupon Lee sent another corps to the
                        Rappahannock, a proceeding which led to the withdrawal of pretty nearly all that remained of
                        McClellan's army, to reinforce Pope, and the abandonment of the campaign by way of the
                        peninsula. Lee instantly transferred the remainder of his army to the Rappahannock, leaving only
                        a small garrison in the works at Richmond.
                    Pope was alert to meet Lee at every point, and he was being strengthened by daily reinforcements
                        from what had been McClellan's army. But in Pope, with all his energy and dash and
                        extraordinary self-confidence, the Federal government had not found a leader capable of playing
                        the great war game on equal terms with Robert E. Lee. Grant and Sherman were still in
                        subordinate commands at the West, while Halleck, who believed in neither of them, had been
                        brought to  Washington and placed in supreme control of all the
                        Union armies.
                    Lee quickly proved himself greatly more than a match for Pope in the art of war. Making a brave
                        show of intending to force his way across the river at a point where Pope could easily hold his
                        own, Lee detached Jackson and sent him around Bull Run Mountains and through Thoroughfare Gap to
                        fall upon his adversary's base at Manassas. As soon as Jackson was well on his way, Lee
                        sent other forces to join him, while still keeping up his pretence of a purpose to force a
                        crossing.
                    It was not until the head of Jackson's column appeared near Manassas that Pope suspected
                        his adversary's purpose. He then hastily fell back from the river, and concentrated all
                        his forces at Manassas, while Lee, with equal haste, moved, with the rest of his army, to join
                        Jackson.
                    His strategy had completely succeeded, and he promptly assailed Pope, with his entire force, on
                        the very field where the first great battle of the war had been fought, a little more than a
                        year before.
                    Pope struggled desperately, but after two days  of battle, he was
                        completely beaten and forced to take refuge behind the defences of Washington.
                    This was at the beginning of September, just three months after Lee had taken personal command of
                        the Army of Northern Virginia. Within that brief time he had done things, the simplest statement
                        of which reads like a wonder-story. At the beginning of June a Federal army of 120,000 men lay
                        almost within cannon-shot of the Confederate capital, while another Federal force about
                        one-third as large was marching unopposed to form a junction with it, and still other Federal
                        armies occupied the valley and sent raiders at will throughout Northern Virginia. At the
                        beginning of September there remained no Federal army at all in Virginia to oppose
                        Lee's will, whatever it might chance to be. McClellan with his grand army had been
                        beaten in battle, and driven into a retreat which ended in his complete withdrawal, after a
                        disastrous campaign, which at its beginning had seemed certain of success. Jackson had cleared
                        the valley of armies superior to his own in numbers. Pope had been outwitted in strategy, beaten
                        in battle, and driven to cover at Washington.
                    
                    That was the story that Agatha related to Baillie early in September, when he was fit to hear it.
                        It stirred his blood with enthusiasm, and bred in him an eagerness almost dangerous, to be at
                        the head of his battery again, and a sharer in this splendid work of war.
                    "Your story is not ended yet," he said, when Agatha had finished. "It
                        is 'to be continued,'be very sure of that. Lee will not rest content with what
                        he has done, marvellous as it is. He took the offensive as soon as he had disposed of McClellan.
                        He will surely not now assume the defensive again, as our army did a year ago after the battle
                        of Manassas. He is obviously made of quite other stuff than that of his predecessors in command.
                        And here am I losing my share in it all,a convalescent in charge of a nurse, and in hiding in
                        the enemy's country. I tell you, Agatha, I must break out of this. As soon as I have
                        strength enough to ride a horse, I must find a way of getting back to Virginia. And with the
                        stimulus of strong desire, I shall not be long now in regaining that much of strength. In the
                        meanwhile, I must think out a plan by which I  can pass the
                        Potomac without falling into the enemy's hands."
                    "I have already thought of all that," returned his companion, "and I
                        have had others thinking of it, too,all the friends in Maryland with whom I am in
                        correspondence. After studying the conditions minutely we are agreed in the positive conviction
                        that it will be impossible for you to get through the Federal lines, which are more rigidly
                        drawn and more vigilantly guarded now than ever before. You cannot even start on such a journey
                        without being arrested and imprisoned, and that would completely defeat your purpose."
                    "I must take the chances, then. For I simply will not sit idly here after I get well
                        enough to sit in a saddle."
                    "Listen," commanded Agatha. "You are exciting yourself, and that is
                        very bad for you. Besides, it is wholly unnecessary, for I have thought myself not into despair,
                        but into hopefulness, rather. I have devised a plan, the success of which is practically assured
                        in advance, by which you and I are going back into the Confederacy. No, I will not tell you what
                        it is just now. You have excited and wearied yourself too much 
                        already. You must go back to your bed now, and sleep for several hours. When you wake, you shall
                        have something to eat, and after that, if I find you sufficiently calm, I will tell you all
                        about it. In the meantime, you may rest easy in your mind, for my plan is sure to succeed, and
                        it will not be difficult of execution."
                
                
                
                    XXVIII
                    WHEN A MAN TALKS TOO MUCH
                    
                    WHEN Baillie had had his rest, he asked Agatha again to tell him of her plans. She explained that
                        it was understood in the little town that he was a French gentleman who had suffered a severe
                        hemorrhage; that as soon as he should be sufficiently recovered, it was his purpose to return to
                        his own country in charge of his French nurse; that she planned in that way to sail with him
                        from New York for Liverpool, where he would be free, as soon as his health should return, to go
                        to the Bahamas and sail thence for Charleston, Wilmington, or some other Southern port, in one
                        of the English blockade-runners that were now making trips almost with the regularity of
                        packets.
                    Baillie approved the plan, though he lamented the length of time its execution must consume.
                    "Agatha," he said,for since that morning  at
                        Fairfax Court-house he had addressed her only by her first name,"I owe you my life, and
                        I shall owe you my liberty, too, as soon as this admirable plan of yours can be carried out. I
                        owe you, even now, such liberty as I have, for but for you"
                    "You mustn't forget Sam," she interrupted; "it was he and not
                        I who rescued you from the prison hospital."
                    "O, my appreciation of Sam's devotion is limitless, and my gratitude to him
                        will last so long as I live. But it was you who brought him North; it was you who planned my
                        rescue at terrible risk to yourself, and put Sam in the way of accomplishing it. And the doctor
                        tells me without any sort of qualification that but for your coming to me as a nurse when you
                        did, I should have died certainly and quickly. Don't interrupt me, please, I'm
                        not going to embarrass you with an effort to thank you for what you have done. There is a
                        generosity so great that expressions of thanks in return for it are a mockeryalmost an insult,
                        just as an offer to pay for it would be. I shall not speak of these things againnot now at
                        least, not until time and place and  circumstance shall be fit. I
                        only want you to know that silence on my part does not signify indifference."
                    Baillie made no reference to that occasion when an untimely declaration of his love had been
                        wrung from him only to be met by a passionless reminder that the time and place were
                        inappropriate. He felt instinctively that any reference to that utterance of his would be in
                        effect a new declaration of his love. In this spirit of chivalry, Baillie scrupulously guarded
                        both his manner and his words at this time, lest his feelings should betray him into some
                        expression that might embarrass the woman whose care of him must continue for some time to come.
                        Feeling, on this occasion, that he had approached dangerously near to some utterance which might
                        subject his companion to embarrassment, he resolutely turned the conversation into less
                        hazardous channels.
                    "Your plan is undoubtedly the best that could be made under the circumstances,"
                        he said, "and as for the waste of time, we must simply reconcile ourselves to that.
                        After all, I cannot hope to be strong enough for several months to come, to resume command of my
                        battery in such campaigns  as this great leader of ours will
                        surely give us. For he is really and truly a great leader, Agatha. Only a great general could
                        have wrought the marvels he has achieved. He would have proved himself great if he had done
                        nothing more than prevent McClellan's reinforcement by sending Jackson to the valley.
                        That was a great thought. And the next was greater. Having compelled the Federals to divert
                        their reinforcing army from its purpose, he brought Jackson to Richmond, and fell upon McClellan
                        with a fury that compelled his vastly superior army to abandon its campaign and retreat to the
                        cover of its gunboats. There was a second achievement of the kind that only great generals
                        accomplish. And even that did not fulfil the measure of his greatness. With a truly Napoleonic
                        impulse, and by truly Napoleonic methods, he instantly converted his successful defence of
                        Richmond into an offence which has been equally successful, so far. By his prompt movement
                        against Pope he has compelled the complete abandonment of McClellan's campaign and the
                        withdrawal of his army from Virginia. By his crushing defeat of Pope, he has cleared Virginia of
                        its enemies, and  changed the aspect of the war, from one of
                        timorous defence on the part of the Confederates to one of confident aggression."
                    "What a pity it is," answered Agatha, "that some such man was not in
                        command when the first battle of Manassas was won!"
                    "Yes. Such a man, with such an opportunity, would have made a speedy end of the trouble.
                        He would never have given McClellan a chance to organise such an army as that which has been
                        besieging Richmond. However, that is not what I was thinking of. I was going to say that a man
                        capable of doing what Lee has done, will not rest content with that. He will continue in the
                        aggressive way in which he has begun, and we shall hear presently of other battles and other
                        campaigns. Agatha, I simply must bear a part in all this. I am getting
                        stronger every day now, and can sit up two hours at a time. Why can we not now carry out your
                        plan? Why can we not go at once to New York in our assumed personalities, and sail immediately,
                        so as to save all the time we can?"
                    "I have thought of that," the young woman answered, "but the doctor
                        peremptorily forbids  it for the present. He hopes you will be
                        well enough two or three weeks hence to make the effort, but to make it short of that time, he
                        says, would be almost certainly to spoil all by bringing on a relapse. You must be patient; we
                        shall in that way make our success a certainty, and the war will last long enough for you to
                        have your part in it, surely."
                    "Yes, unhappily for our country, it will last long enough."
                    The next morning brought news of a startling character. Lee was already beginning to fulfil
                        Baillie's prediction by an aggressive campaign. Having driven the enemy out of
                        Virginia, he now undertook to transfer the scene of the fighting to the region north of the
                        Potomac. He had sent Jackson again to clear the valley, and was marching another corps northward
                        upon a parallel line east of the mountains, while holding the remainder of his small but potent
                        army in readiness to form a junction with either of the detached corps when necessary. The
                        movement clearly foreshadowed a campaign in Maryland which, if it should prove successful, would
                        place the Confederates in rear of Washington, and render that capital untenable,  if Lee should win a single decisive battle north of the Potomac.
                    The alarm in Washington was such as almost to precipitate a panic. For had not Lee and his Army
                        of Northern Virginia proved themselves far more than a match for every general and every army
                        that had tried conclusions with them? Moreover, as they were advancing, full of the enthusiasm
                        of recent victory, and free to pursue whatever routes they pleased, there was nobody to meet
                        them except one or the other of two generals already discredited by defeat at Lee's
                        hands, and an army drawn from those that the Army of Northern Virginia had so recently
                        overthrown in the field.
                    Pope was no longer thought of as a leader fit for the task of meeting Lee. His campaign in
                        Virginia had ended so disastrously, that men forgot all his former achievements, at Island
                        Number Ten in the Mississippi, and elsewhere. He had already been removed from command and sent
                        to fight Indians in the Northwest. There remained only McClellan, whom Lee had already
                        outmanuvred and outfought, and both the government and the army had lost confidence in him.  But the emergency was great, and McClellan, who had been removed,
                        was again ordered to take command.
                    From the two armies that had been driven out of Virginia, a new one was quickly organised, which
                        greatly outnumbered Lee's force. But instead of moving quickly to the assault, as
                        Grant, or Sherman, or Thomas would have done under like circumstances, McClellan moved at a
                        tortoise-like pace, giving his adversary ample time in which to unite his three columns, pass
                        the Potomac unmolested, and push forward into Maryland.
                    All this was to come a little later, however. On the morning when Agatha read the newspapers to
                        Baillie, all that was known was that Lee was rapidly moving northward, with evident intent to
                        invade Maryland and push his columns into the rear of Washington.
                    "This is good news for us, Agatha," Baillie said, when the despatches had been
                        read. "Unless Lee receives a check, the Army of Northern Virginia will be swarming all
                        about us here within three or four days. If that occurs, you and I and Sam will have no
                        difficulty in going to Virginia  by a much more direct route than
                        the one we have been planning to follow. An ambulance ride with liberty for its objective will
                        do me no harm, while you and Sam shall be provided with good horses. Stuart will take care of
                        that, even if he has to capture the horses from the enemy."
                    "We may safely trust him for so much of accommodation," answered the girl.
                        "But if you excite yourself as you are doing now, you'll be ill again, and
                        spoil all. You must go back to bed at once and go to sleep. That is your shortest road to
                        rescue, now, whether Lee comes this way or is beaten back. In either case you will need all of
                        strength that you can manage to accumulate."
                    The sick man obeyed, so far at least as going to bed was concerned. But he found it impossible to
                        comply with his nurse's further injunction by going to sleep. His pulses were throbbing
                        violently with the excitement of hope, and his nerves were tense almost to the verge of
                        collapse. When the doctor returned from his round of visits he found his patient in a fever
                        that, in one so weak, was dangerous. During the following night Baillie grew worse, and by the
                        next morning the  physician was convinced that he had lost most if
                        not all of the ground that he had gained during three weeks of convalescence.
                    "Mademoiselle Roland," he said, "I must command you to forbid him to
                        talk hereafter, even in French."
                    Baillie heard the remark, and came instantly to Agatha's defence.
                    "It was not her fault, Doctor," he said. "It was all my own."
                    "O, I know that," answered the physician. "She's the
                        discreetest nurse I ever knew, while you are without question the most obstinate, cantankerous,
                        and unruly patient a nurse was ever called upon to keep in subjection."
                    "Am I all that?" Baillie asked Agatha, when the doctor had left the room;
                        "all that he said?"
                    "No, certainly not. But you mustn't talk. Go to sleep."
                    "Thank you!" was all that he could say in the stupor which the physician had
                        induced with a sleeping potion.
                
                
                
                    XXIX
                    A STRUGGLE OF GIANTS
                    
                    WHEN Baillie woke from his drug-compelled sleep, his condition was far better than the doctor had
                        anticipated. Lee was coming now, and the sick man was buoyed and strengthened by a confident
                        hope of speedy rescue. The Army of Northern Virginia was in Maryland, and Baillie was sure that
                        it would push rapidly eastward to and beyond the town where he had so long lain ill.
                    So it would have done if all had gone well. But there was a Federal force of eleven thousand men
                        at Harper's Ferry. By all the principles of strategy it ought to have retired as soon
                        as Lee crossed the Potomac above or below that point. To remain was to be cut off and to invite
                        capture. McClellan, as a trained and scientific soldier, understood this perfectly, and he
                        wished the force at Harper's Ferry to be withdrawn and added to  his army. He was overruled by the civilian authorities at Washington, and the
                        detached force remained in its entrenchments, completely isolated and helpless.
                    But in the meanwhile its presence at Harper's Ferry completely blocked Lee's
                        only secure route of retreat in case of disaster. It was absolutely necessary for him to reduce
                        it before continuing his progress northward or eastward. To that end he was obliged to send
                        Jackson back across the Potomac, with orders to assail Harper's Ferry from the south,
                        while other forces, detached for that purpose, should hold positions north and east of the town,
                        thus preventing the garrison's escape.
                    Jackson did his part promptly and perfectly, as it was his custom to do. He carried the place,
                        capturing the entire garrison of eleven thousand men, and all the guns, ammunition, and military
                        stores, which had been accumulated there in vast quantities.
                    This was a very important capture, but in order to accomplish it, Lee had been compelled to
                        scatter his forces in a dangerous fashion, besides losing the advantage that would have attended
                             a rapid advance against an enemy who could not know whither
                        he purposed to go, but must guard all roads at once. For from Lee's position after he
                        had crossed the river it was open to him to advance upon Washington or Baltimore or Philadelphia
                        as he might elect, keeping his adversary in the meanwhile in a state of embarrassing uncertainty
                        as to his purposes.
                    But when he sent Jackson back and detached other strong forces to hold the avenues of escape from
                        Harper's Ferry, his army was badly scattered, its several parts lying at too great a
                        distance from each other for ready coperation.
                    During the consequent days of waiting, McClellan was advancing in leisurely fashion to meet the
                        Confederate movement, and his army was every day adding to its strength by the hurrying forward
                        of fresh regiments and brigades to its reinforcement.
                    Finally Lee issued an order setting forth in detail his plan for concentrating his scattered
                        forces. Copies of this order, showing the exact location of each part of the army and the
                        movements to be made by each, were sent to all of  the corps
                        commanders. One of those copies was lost, and fell into McClellan's hands.
                    For once that most leisurely of generals was in a hurry. His opportunity had come to destroy the
                        Army of Northern Virginia by beating it in detail. He threw a strong force forward to assail
                        certain of its positions. The assault proved successful, but the success did not come so quickly
                        as it should have done. By determined fighting Lee gained time in which to bring his scattered
                        forces together again at Sharpsburg before his adversary could fall upon him in force. There, on
                        Antietam Creek, on the 17th of September, 1862, was fought a battle which is reckoned the
                        bloodiest of all the war, in proportion to the numbers engaged.
                    McClellan had seventy thousand men in line, Lee forty thousand. The struggle began early in the
                        morning and continued until after nightfall. The fighting on both sides was as heroic and as
                        determined as any that was ever done in the world. At the end of it all both sides claimed the
                        victory, and neither had in fact won it. Neither had been able to drive the other from his
                        position. Neither had broken the other's lines  or gained
                        any decisive advantage. And when morning came again neither side was willing to renew the
                        contest, and neither would retire from the field.
                    For a whole day the two armies lay facing each other in grim defiance, each ready to receive the
                        other should it attack, but neither venturing to make the assault.
                    After twenty-four hours of defiant waiting, Lee slowly retired to the Potomac, while McClellan
                        lay still, not venturing to follow his adversary. Lee crossed unmolested into Virginia and took
                        up a position within easy striking distance, but his adversary made no attempt to strike.
                        McClellan presently advanced and stretched his great army along the Potomac. But he assumed an
                        attitude of defence, calling insistently for reinforcements, though his army outnumbered
                        Lee's about two to one.
                    He had succeeded in checking Lee's invasion of the North and turning it back. He was
                        content with that, and in spite of President Lincoln's urgency he refused to do more,
                        till at last General Burnside was ordered to assume command in his stead.
                    
                    It was confidently expected both at the North and at the South, after Lee's withdrawal
                        to Virginia, that as soon as his army should be rested, he would again take the offensive,
                        assail McClellan at some point, and attempt a new march northward. This expectation was
                        strengthened when Stuart, early in October, plunged across the river with his cavalry, galloped
                        over the country, penetrated into Pennsylvania, and saucily rode entirely round
                        McClellan's army, just as he had done a few months before at Richmond, in preparation
                        for Lee's seven days' battle.
                
                
                
                    XXX
                    THE LAST STRAW
                    
                    WHEN the news came to Baillie and Agatha that Lee and McClellan had met in a great battle, and
                        that the Army of Northern Virginia had retraced its steps across the Potomac, both lost heart a
                        little.
                    But Baillie was now regaining strength at a surprising rate, and his eagerness to carry out
                        Agatha's plan of escape, by way of England, Nassau, and a blockaded Southern port,
                        became importunate.
                    Yielding to it, early in October, Agatha hurriedly made her final preparations. Through her
                        friend in New York she engaged passage for herself, Baillie, and Sam, on a Cunard steamer
                        appointed to sail on the 15th of the month. She made all necessary arrangements for the sick
                        French gentleman, his French nurse, and his negro valet to make the journey to New York on  the 14th, in order that they might sail the next morning.
                    But a few days before the time set for their departure a great excitement arose in the town where
                        Baillie had so long lain ill. The Confederates were coming again; they had destroyed McClellan
                        in a great battle, current rumour reported, and were now marching upon Washington unopposed. So
                        the rumours ran.
                    Later tidings corrected all this to some extent. It was learned that there had been no battle as
                        yet, and that the invading force was only the vanguard of Lee's advance.
                    "I think I understand what it means," said Agatha, who had followed
                        Stuart's operations in the past with close attention, learning to appreciate his
                        methods. "This is simply one of General Stuart's splendidly audacious raids.
                        He rode around McClellan at Richmond, you remember; he rode around Pope, and captured his
                        baggage, and his uniform, and all his mules at Manassas two months ago. I suspect that he is
                        simply riding around McClellan again in search of forage and stores and glory."
                    "That is probably what the movement means," 
                        answered Baillie, "though it may be made in preparation for another advance of the
                        whole army, just as each of his former exploits was. In either case, if he comes this way it
                        will answer our purpose. I shall escape with him. If it is only a cavalry raid, of course Stuart
                        will have to force his way back through or over whatever obstacles McClellan may throw in his
                        path, and in that case there will be a continual running fight with no secure rear for you to
                        take shelter with. Of course, if the whole army advances, a secure way will be open, but if only
                        the cavalry come, there will be no line of communication. In that case it will be necessary for
                        you to remain here, or rather go on to New York and sail for Liverpool as we have both
                        intended."
                    "You are forgetful, Captain Pegram. I have ridden with General Stuart before, and as to
                        placing myself under fire, I think you know I am not without experience. No. If General Stuart
                        comes this way, I shall ask him for a horse and play outrider to the ambulance in which you are
                        to travel."
                    "But, Agatha!" he pleaded, "I am unwilling to have you expose yourself
                        thus needlessly.  Think of the danger and the hardship, and think
                        too of the discomfort you must suffer as a solitary woman in company with a horde of
                        rough-riding cavalrymen!"
                    "Hush! I will not hear one word even in suspicion of our Virginia cavaliers. I know
                        those superb fellows, and I trust them. They may be rough as riders, and they are certainly
                        rough fellows for the enemy to encounter, but they are gallant gentlemen; they are as gentle as
                        only giants of courage can be, in their attitude toward a defenceless woman. If the opportunity
                        comes, I shall certainly ride with them."
                    At that moment there was a scurrying in the streets, a hurried closing of the little shops, and a
                        scampering of juvenile chronic offenders to points of secure observation.
                    A minute or two later some gray-clad regiments of cavalry trotted into the town, taking temporary
                        possession of it. They created no more of disorder, and made far less noise than a Sunday-school
                        picnic might have done. Not a man of them was permitted to quit his place in the ranks even for
                        a single moment, for Stuart  had given strict orders, and his
                        lieutenants enforced them relentlessly.
                    There were very valuable commissary and ordnance stores belonging to the United States government
                        in the town, and the advance squadron of the cavalry quietly took possession of these military
                        supplies, quickly loading them into wagons, but touching no single cent's worth of
                        private property of any kind, and molesting no citizen. So the orders ran.
                    Half an hour sufficed for this work, and at the end of that time the column moved out of the town
                        in silence and good order.
                    Captain Baillie Pegram accompanied it in an ambulance, with Sam riding at its tail, and Agatha,
                        mounted upon a stout and war-seasoned cavalry horse, preceding the vehicle.
                    At nightfall the detachment joined the main column, and there was a brief pause for supper.
                        Agatha, in her capacity of nurse, questioned Baillie closely as to his condition, and found that
                        he had seemingly taken no harm from excitement or weariness. When she had satisfied herself on
                        that point, she ventured to tell him that his own battery lay around the ambulance. He  promptly sat up and asked to see his subalterns and certain of
                        his men.
                    "You may see a few of them," answered his nurse, "if you will receive
                        them lying down. If you insist upon sitting up, I'll not permit a single one of them
                        even to grasp your hand."
                    He yielded to her authority, and during the remainder of the brief halting time, there was a
                        cheering reunion of comrades and a hasty interchange of personal news between men who loved each
                        other as only those men do who have stood together under an enemy's fire and together
                        endured the hardships of campaigning.
                    The enemy's cavalry was by this time approaching in considerable force, and Stuart,
                        whose plan did not include any purpose of unnecessary fighting, set his column in motion again.
                        But he did not take the line of march which he had been following all day. That had been
                        intended as a blind. By threatening several points in directions quite other than the one he
                        meant to take, he had accomplished two important purposes. He had gained time for all his
                        scattered detachments to rejoin the column, and he had compelled the  enemy to scatter his forces in many directions for the defence of the threatened
                        points.
                    Having thus shaken off the greater part of the force pursuing him, he began his march that night
                        in such a direction as to suggest that he meant to return if possible by the route by which he
                        had come. For this his enemy was of course prepared. As soon as the cavalry forces that were
                        observing his movement discovered what they took to be his purpose, they withdrew for a space
                        and planted themselves across his pathway. Infantry and artillery forces were hurried forward in
                        support, and the enemy confidently believed that at last the wily cavalier was securely
                        entrapped.
                    To encourage this mistaken belief, Stuart threw forward a small force of men armed with carbines,
                        and instructed them to maintain a scattering fire upon the enemy's pickets during the
                        night as if feeling of the position in preparation for an attempt to break through it on the
                        morrow.
                    No sooner was this disposition made than the main body of the Confederates was turned into the
                        by-roads that led toward the Potomac at a  point far east of
                        McClellan's position and farther down the river.
                    By a rapid march it reached the river at daylight and crossed it by sunrise. In the meanwhile,
                        just before the dawn, the detachment which had been left behind to maintain a show of intended
                        battle during the night, quietly withdrew, and rode at a gallop to rejoin the escaping column.
                        The enemy did not discover their withdrawal until sunrise, by which time they were many miles
                        away, galloping toward the river, which they crossed without molestation.
                    It was not until the column halted in Virginia for a breakfast that might be taken in security,
                        that Stuart met Baillie and Agatha in person. He insisted upon hearing the whole story, even
                        making Sam take part in its telling. At parting he sought a word apart with Agatha, and said to
                        her:
                    "I suppose you and Captain Pegram have quite ceased to be 'almost
                        strangers' by this time."
                    The girl flushed crimson, but managed to answer:
                    "No, General. I have simply been his nurse,  you know,
                        andandwell, he has been very ill."
                    "Nevertheless," answered the cavalier, "I'll court-martial
                        him when he returns to duty, if I hear no better report than that of his conduct."
                    This bit of playfulness on Stuart's part had the effect of making Agatha exceedingly
                        uncomfortable in her mind. She had so long been caring for Baillie as a man ill nigh unto death,
                        that she had ceased to think of conventionalities in connection with her relations to him. But
                        Stuart's jest reminded her that others might not be equally forgetful, especially now
                        that her patient was rapidly regaining his strength.
                    "My work is done," she said to herself, "and I must no longer intrude
                        myself upon Captain Pegram or his affairs. As soon as he can be sent off to Warlock in
                        Sam's care, I must bid him a final adieu and go back to my loneliness at Willoughby.
                        After all, I shall have enough to do there, caring for the poor negroes and managing the
                        plantation so that it shall yield enough for them to live upon. I wonder if everything has
                        fallen into complete neglect there during my absence? Now that Chummie has gone to the  angels, I am needed there. And besides I must look after my
                        underground railroad affairs. I wonder if the line is in good working order, and if it is
                        carrying as much freight as it ought."
                    She realised, too, now that the parting was drawing near, how much Baillie Pegram's
                        presence had come to mean to her, how necessary a part of her life he had become, and how barren
                        and desolate that life must be when they two should have spoken a final good-bye. For during her
                        period of nursing, he and she had come to be the best of comrades, and at such times as his
                        condition had permitted, they had fallen into habits of intimate converse. Their talks, it is
                        true, had never been personal in character. They had talked of books and travel and life; now
                        and then they had discussed philosophy, ethics, sthetics, and a hundred other subjects external
                        to themselves. But although their converse had not been personal in character, it had taught
                        each to know the impulses, the sentiments, and the convictions of the other in a degree that
                        purely personal intercourse never could have done.
                    Agatha understood all this now, as she had not  understood it
                        before, and the understanding saddened her. For she was resolutely determined now to take
                        herself as completely out of this man's life as if she had never known him at all. She
                        proudly realised her duty, and she would not flinch from its doing.
                    "Did I not break off the acquaintance at that Christmas-time nearly two years
                        ago?" she argued with herself." Was I not strong and resolute, the moment I
                        learned what my duty was? Why then should I not do the same again?"
                    She let her thoughts wander at will. "It is true there was war between us then, and
                        there is none now. There never has been since Chummie talked with me that last night of his
                        life. And it seems harder now in other ways. Since I have come to know Captain Pegram so well,
                        and especially since I have taken care of him in a time of helplessness, it seems harder to send
                        him away and tell him that we are mere acquaintances, not likely to see much of each other
                        hereafter."
                    Then she generalised in this fashion:
                    "Life is very hard on women in any casemuch harder than it is on men, in every way.  And the worst of it is that men do not want it to be so, and
                        nothing they can do can prevent. Even in that restriction of our lives which petty
                        conventionality forces upon us, men cannot come to our relief. It is women who hold women to
                        such restrictions. Men would laugh them away, if we would let them, but we never will. We hold
                        each other to the rigidest standards of propriety, even when propriety makes needless and
                        foolish exactions of us. Men never do that. They want us to be innocently as free as they are,
                        but we are afraid to be so. We are afraid of other women. Even Chummie could not succeed in
                        setting me free. I was too much afraid of other women's opinions, too much a slave to
                        other women's standards to accept the freedom he tried so hard to force upon me.
                    "No, that isn't just it. I am not really afraid of other women's
                        opinions; I am afraid of my own. I have laughed at and defied other women's standards,
                        many a time, and I shall go on doing so to the end, whenever I am convinced that their opinions
                        are unsound and their standards wrong. I did that when I went North to find and rescue Captain
                        Pegram. I knew perfectly that my good  aunts would look upon my
                        conduct with positive horror, and that the least any other woman of my acquaintance would say
                        about my conduct would be 'How could she?' in tones that meant all that is
                        possible of condemnation. But I did not care for all that, and I do not care for it now, because
                        I know that what I did was right, and that Chummie would have said so if he had lived till now.
                        The trouble is that in the main I share those opinions of other women which so restrict the
                        liberty of all women. I am afraid of those opinions because they are my own as well as
                        others'; I submit myself to those standards of feminine conduct because I share the
                        opinion that sets them up and enforces obedience to them."
                    At this point Agatha "shied" away from the thought that had in fact suggested
                        all this introspective meditation. She would not admit, even to herself, that she was strongly
                        moved by a perfectly natural impulse, to bridge the chasm that lay between her and Baillie
                        Pegram, to remind him of what he had said to her that far-away morning on the picket-line at
                        Fairfax Courthouse, and so give him opportunity to say it again. When that thought intruded
                        itself upon  her, she was shocked and startled by it. It seemed to
                        her immodest in an extreme degree, unwomanly, almost atrocious. She would not harbour it for a
                        moment. She cast it out of her mind, and was bitterly resentful against herself for having
                        permitted it even to suggest itself.
                    "I must act at once," she resolved, when the day's march was resumed.
                        "I must flee from the devil of this temptation. If Captain Pegram suffers no relapse
                        to-day, I will bid him goodbye in the morning. No, I will not bid him goodbye. That would be
                        toowell, it would be almost like acting upon that hideous thought. I shall simply go without
                        saying a word to him. Perhaps I shall leave a little note for him, simply telling him that I am
                        going to look after affairs at Willoughby, as he no longer needs his French nurse. I'll
                        be very careful, in writing it, not tonot to make it more than coldly courteous and
                        friendly."
                    It was nearly nightfall when the cavalcade rejoined the main body of Lee's army. Agatha
                        made haste to secure a careful examination of Baillie by a staff surgeon. He reported that the
                        convalescent man had taken no harm from the  journey, but was so
                        far recovered that a month's rest would render him fit for duty again. Assured of this,
                        Agatha sent for Sam and minutely instructed him as to the care of his master on the homeward
                        journey which, she had arranged, was to begin immediately, with the assistance of an ambulance
                        for a part of the way.
                    Then, early the next morning, she went to Stuart, and preferred a request. In the present
                        disturbed state of things she hesitated to make the journey to Willoughby alone, and she asked
                        for an escort for a day.
                    Stuart looked at her with a face far sadder than his was accustomed to be, and said:
                    "I have very bad news for you, Miss Agatha. You cannot go to Willoughbyfor there is no
                        Willoughby. That was one of the many plantations ravaged by Pope while he held Northern
                        Virginia. The house and all the barns were burned, and every living animal for a score of miles
                        around was killed. Even if Willoughby had been spared, it would not do for you to live there
                        now. The armies will move to new positions presently,nobody knows where,and this northern part
                        of Virginia will be no fit place  for women and children to live
                        in till the war is over."
                    The girl sat pale and speechless, as she listened. It was as if she had received a blow in the
                        face. She had bravely met danger and sorrow and hardship, and had endured them all with heroic
                        resolution. She seemed now quite unable to endure this new trial of her courage. She made no
                        outcry and shed no tears. She simply sat there before the headquarters camp-fire, statue-like in
                        her pallor and her immobility. Stuart gently laid his hand upon her head, and sought to soothe
                        her with a voice that was always gentle when he spoke to a woman.
                    Agatha seemed not to know what he was doing. She made no response to his words, and as he looked
                        into her face the light went out of her great brown eyes.
                    A moment later she reeled, and Stuart caught her in his brawny arms.
                    "Bring a surgeon quick," he commanded.
                    Then he gently laid the seemingly lifeless form upon a blanket which the sentinel spread upon the
                        ground.
                
                
                
                    XXXI
                    AT WARLOCK AND AT THE OAKS
                    
                    FOR the first time in her life Agatha Ronald was ill. For the first time her strength had given
                        way under prolonged strain. The surgeon who had been summoned to attend her ordered that she
                        should be sent immediately to some place in rear of the army's exposed position, where
                        she could have complete rest.
                    Unfortunately there was no such place within a day's journeyno place which might not at
                        any hour become the scene of battle or at the least of massive manuvring. Nowhere short of
                        Charlottesville was there a secure resting-place for the overwrought nerves that had so stoutly
                        held their own as long as their ministering strength was needed in the service of others.
                    While this matter was still under perplexed discussion, Marshall Pollard made his timely
                        appearance. Hearing of the arrival of Baillie  and Agatha with
                        Stuart's returning column, he had ridden forward from his camp to meet and greet his
                        friends. He had passed a quarter of an hour with the master of Warlock, who was now permitted to
                        sit up most of the time, and who was to start almost immediately on his homeward journey. While
                        they two were talking together, word reached Sam's ears that his
                        "Mis' Agatha" had fallen ill at General Stuart's campfire.
                        Marshall went with him immediately to her, under an injunction from Baillie to "get her
                        out of this, Marshall, if you can. Tell her not to mind me, but to take care of herself. Tell
                        her I shall be ready for duty almost immediatelytell her I'm on dutytell her anything
                        and everything that will persuade her to let you take her to a place of safety."
                    Marshall was quick to see the necessity of prompt action, and Agatha was far too ill to oppose
                        his plans in any way. Stuart had ordered a little tent stretched for her, and here it was
                        decided she should remain until Captain Pollard could arrange for her removal.
                    He first secured a week's leave of absence for himself. While arranging that, he had
                        half a  dozen of his men scouring the country round about in
                        search of a carriage. One was found which had escaped destruction during the days of
                        Pope's unsparing ravaging. It was an old-fashioned vehicle of family state, swung high
                        upon C springs and stoutly built for service.
                    In this conveyance, Agatha, still dazed and unresisting, was started on her homeward journey
                        early the next morning. One of Pollard's battery men acted as driver, while Pollard
                        himself rode by the side of the carriage.
                    About midnight the party reached Charlottesville, where tender, loving hands took charge of
                        Agatha for the night.
                    The journey had rather rested than wearied her, and the physician who had been summoned to attend
                        her found her free from all positive illness.
                    "She has need of nothing now but rest and quiet," he said.
                    When Marshall called upon her in the morning, he found the young woman's mind clear
                        again, and her nerves under control.
                    "Tell me of Captain Pegram," she eagerly demanded, as soon as she had briefly
                        expressed  her gratitude to Pollard for the care he was taking for
                        her comfort.
                    With that gentle smile which always so invited affection, Marshall reassured her concerning her
                        late patient.
                    "He is in Sam's excellent hands, and on his way to the rear by this time. He
                        will be on duty again pretty soon. Indeed, if the army were stationed anywhere in particular
                        just now he wouldn't go away from it at all. He would take command of his battery at
                        once, merely reporting himself on the sick-list for a week or two. As it is he must go away for
                        a little while. Now let us talk about yourself. I have a week's leave, granted for the
                        express purpose of letting me do what is best for you. Tell me what is bestor
                        ratherit's the same thingwhat is most to your liking? Will you stay here, or"
                    "If I may," she answered, quickly, "I want to go hometo The Oaks. I
                        mean, for that is the only home I have in all the world now. Please take me there."
                    "It would be a very long journey by carriage," he said, as if talking to
                        himself, "but we can  make the trip by rail if you are
                        strong enough to stand it."
                    It was necessary in those days to think of a railway journey as a formidable undertaking for any
                        but the strongest persons. There were no such things known then as sleeping-cars, or
                        drawing-room cars. The railroads were badly built, with the rails spiked down to loose ties, and
                        in no way joined together at their ends. The cars were coupled together by chain links, and
                        operated with hand-brakes, so that when a train was stopping, there was a jolting which in our
                        day would be deemed intolerable. In Virginia at that time there was the additional discomfort of
                        laminated iron rails, and cars badly out of repair.
                    But Agatha's courage had come back to her now, and she was eager to complete her journey
                        as speedily as possible. So Marshall sent the carriage back to its owner, and with Agatha, took
                        the first train for Lynchburg, whence another railroad would convey them to their destination.
                    There was very little of conversation between the two as they travelled, for the jarring and the
                        rattle of the disjointed train, as it jolted over its intolerably ill-kept road-bed, made
                        talking difficult  and hearing well-nigh impossible. But during
                        the long pauses at the stations Agatha related the story of her adventures, with something of
                        that relish which one always feels in telling of experiences past, which were anything but
                        relishful at the time of their occurrence.
                    Better still, the two friends talked much of Baillie Pegram, a subject that enlisted the
                        sympathetic interest of both, and drew them closer than ever together as friends.
                    The good ladies of The Oaks welcomed Agatha with all of tenderness that their dignity would
                        permit. They deeply disapproved of all that she had done, of course, but they reflected that she
                        had suffered much, and as she was not now strong they forebore to emphasise by words of censure
                        the condemnation which they could not avoid manifesting in their manner. Agatha did not much
                        mind their disapproval. This was one of the cases in which, feeling that her conduct had been
                        altogether right, she was not troubled by the contrary opinions of others. Moreover she had
                        other subjects to think about.
                    Captain Pollard went at once to Warlock, after delivering his charge into her aunts'
                        hands, and  on the next day, when he visited The Oaks to ask
                        concerning her, he reported that the master of Warlock had reached home and was still rapidly
                        gaining strength.
                    This news gave Agatha a little shock. She had intended, as we know, to take herself out of
                        Captain Pegram's life as quickly and as completely as possible, and now circumstances
                        had forced her to place herself near to him again. She knew that as soon as he should be able to
                        ride, ordinary courtesy would compel him to visit her, andwell, she did not want him to do that.
                        She felt herself in the position of a woman who has purposely placed herself in the way of
                        inviting attentions, or at least has suffered herself to be so placed.
                    She had done nothing of the kind, of course. Indeed, she had had no choice in the matter, but the
                        very thought that Baillie Pegram might so interpret her course, distressed her greatly, in her
                        still nerve-tortured condition. She cared nothing whatever for what others, including her aunts,
                        might think of the matter, but the thought that Baillie Pegram might misunderstand was
                        intolerable.
                    
                    Her aunts added to her embarrassment by adopting a course which plainly showed that they
                        entertained a fear identical with her own. They sent a note to Warlock every day, inquiring
                        concerning the health of that plantation's master. They made these notes as coldly
                        formal as stilted rhetoric could contrive, and they were at pains to read the missives to Agatha
                        before sending them.
                    "Why do you do that?" she asked, when the second day's note was read.
                        There was almost a querulous tone in her protest.
                    "Why, it seems to us proper, dear; we want you to be assured that we make no mention of
                        your presence here, but take the utmost possible pains to show Captain Pegram how entirely you
                        are"
                    At that point Agatha rose to her feet and looked indignantly at her relatives. For a moment there
                        was danger of an outbreak of offended pride, but by an effort the girl controlled herself and
                        said, simply:
                    "Please don't do it any more. I shall feel hurt if you offer again to read to
                        me anything you may have written. If you will excuse me I  think I
                        will go to my room now. I am not strong-to-day."
                    It was the custom of the good ladies to protest that they "never could understand
                        Agatha;" but on this occasion they understood her sufficiently to know that they had
                        trodden very near a danger-line which they were more than unwilling to cross.
                    Baillie Pegram in his turn was by no means minded to submit to the manifest purpose of The Oaks
                        ladies that he should hear nothing about Agatha, beyond what Marshall Pollard had reported to
                        him during the two days of his stay at Warlock. Marshall had gone now, and Baillie wrote in
                        response to the second of the notes:
                    "I am getting well quite as rapidly as my best friends could wish. There is not the
                        slightest occasion for uneasiness about me. I am even permitted to ride horseback a little. But
                        I am exceedingly anxious for tidings of Miss Agatha, whom you have not mentioned in either of
                        your notes. Will you not send me word concerning her, or better still, if she is well enough to
                        write, will you not ask her to send me a few lines? My gratitude to her for all that she has
                        done  for me is very great, and so is my anxiety to know that she
                        is recovering from the painful illness which was caused by her generous self-sacrifice in my
                        behalf."
                    As Agatha had asked her aunts not to read to her their letters to the master of Warlock, those
                        ladies chose to interpret her request as including his letter to them. They made no mention of
                        the fact that he had written to make inquiries concerning her. She wondered a little that he had
                        not done so, but on the whole, she argued, it was better so.
                    Baillie was not so easily pleased. He chafed when the next note came from The Oaks, bringing no
                        tidings from Agatha, and when still another of like character followed it, he grew uneasy, lest
                        the silence might mean that Agatha had herself forbidden all mention of her in letters from The
                        Oaks.
                    "She is taking that method, probably," he argued, "of dismissing me
                        again, and letting me know that I must not presume upon the service she has done me. What a fool
                        I am, to be sure! I have been reckoning upon her devotion to me in my illness and captivity as
                        proof that what I  brutally blurted out at Fairfax Court-house was
                        not unwelcome to her after all. With her quick feminine perceptions, she has discovered how I
                        have been misinterpreting her duty doing, and she wants now to show me my error in the simplest
                        way possible."
                    As he meditated, the soldier impulse in him asserted itself,the impulse to dare the worst in the
                        hope of achieving the best.
                    Acting upon that impulse he immediately wrote a note to Agatha, and sent it by Sam, with orders
                        to deliver it to her in person, if possible, and at all events to ask for an answer and fetch
                        it.
                    In his note he told Agatha of his unanswered inquiries, and of the great uneasiness he felt
                        concerning her health. Finally he begged her to relieve his anxiety by sending a line in
                    reply.
                
                
                
                    XXXII
                    IN RIGHTEOUS WRATH
                    
                    THE grounds about The Oaks mansion were much more extensive than was customary on Virginia
                        plantations. The late owner, Agatha's father, had cherished the forest growths
                        jealously, permitting no tree to be cut that could in any wise be preserved, and forbidding the
                        encroachment of the lawns immediately about the house upon the wild woodland growths that
                        bordered and surrounded them. It was Agatha's delight on windy autumn days to wander in
                        these woodlands, and on this morning Sam encountered her quite half a mile from the house. She
                        was hatless, and the wind was taking what liberties it pleased with her thick-growing hair,
                        while she, having turned child again in her enjoyment of the brilliant, gusty morning, was
                        wading about in the depths of the fallen leaves, delighting her soul with their rustling.
                    
                    Sam delivered his note and she read it. Instantly the child spirit in her took flight and she
                        became the strong, resolute, self-contained young woman that she had learned to be during the
                        storm and stress period of her recent life. Her sudden access of dignity did not spare even Sam.
                        Like an officer in battle issuing his orders, she turned to the negro boy and said:
                    "Return to your master at once. Tell him you met me far from the house. Say to him that
                        I am almost as well as ever, and that I will answer his note during the day. There. Go now, and
                        deliver the message as I have given it to you. Do you hear?"
                    Sam's face grew long, as he turned about, and Agatha caught sight of it. She was in a
                        mighty rage, but not with Sam. She bethought her that the boy had misunderstood, to the injury
                        of his feelings, so she called to him, and added:
                    "I did not mean to speak sharply to you, Sam. You don't deserve any but kindly
                        words. I was thinking of something else. How are you since you got back to Warlock, and tell me
                        truly how your master is."
                    "Thank you, Mis' Agatha," answered the 
                        boy, his face all smiles again, "Mas' Baillie he's a-gittin'
                        as lively as a spring chicken what don't mean to be ketched. He rides every day now,
                        an' don't he jes' eat! He'll be all right in a week or two,
                        yo' may be sure. As fer Sam, he ain't never nothin' else but well,
                        specially now dat we done git away from dem Yankees an' back to Warlock
                        ag'in!"
                    Nevertheless Sam grew distinctly melancholy as he rode homeward, repeating his message time and
                        again in order that he might deliver it correctly. The message seemed to him unduly curt, and
                        certainly the note he had delivered seemed somehow to have angered Agatha. Sam wondered how and
                        why, and he grieved over the circumstance, too, for Sam had taken the liberty of making up his
                        mind that Agatha would make an ideal mistress at Warlock, and that the master of Warlock was
                        planning some such destiny for her. Her message and her manner suggested that she resented all
                        this, and that his master's hopes, which he took for granted, were likely to be
                        disappointed.
                    Baillie Pegram's interpretation of the message  when it
                        was delivered to him did not materially differ from that which Sam had put upon it.
                    "She resents the liberty I have taken," he thought, "in writing to her
                        directly. She has forbidden her aunts to reply to my inquiries made through them. She has sought
                        in that way to tell me, by indirection, that the old family war between herself and me still
                        endures; that all her suffering and sacrifice in ministering to me was inspired solely by a
                        sense of duty; that she wishes now to end our intimacy as she did two years ago. Clearly that is
                        the state of the case, and she is naturally angry now that I have forced an attention upon her
                        which compels her to tell me directly what she had meant me to infer. What an idiot I was to do
                        that!"
                    In the meanwhile Agatha had walked rapidly to the house. At the beginning of her journey she
                        indulged her indignation freely. She rehearsed all the bitingly sarcastic things she meant to
                        say to her aunts, all the defiance she intended to hurl at their helpless heads. But as she
                        spent her superfluous vitality in brisk walking, she recovered her self-control.
                    "I will not scold," she resolved. "That 
                        would be undignified. I will be calm and courteous, saying as little as may be necessary to let
                        them see my displeasure. They have grievously compromised my dignity by what they have done. I
                        must not sacrifice what remains of it by a petulant outbreak. They have treated me like a child
                        in pinafores, who must be restrained lest she misbehave. I must show them that I have outgrown
                        pinafores. I must prove myself incapable of childish misbehaviour."
                    Firm in this determination, she entered the house with Baillie Pegram's note in her
                        hand, and upon joining her aunts before the library fire, she said quite calmly:
                    "I have a note from Captain Pegram, who has got a notion into his head that I am
                        seriously ill, and that you are concealing the fact from his friendly knowledge. He tells me he
                        has twice asked you for news of me, and you have made no response. Of course you forgot to
                        mention in your notes that I am quite well again."
                    The ladies looked at each other with troubled eyes. Presently one of them spoke:
                    "No, dear, we did not forget. We have only been mindful of proprieties which Mr. Pegram
                             seems strangely to forget or ignore. Under the circumstances,
                        and in view of the relations between the Ronalds and the Pegrams, it seemed to us rather
                        impertinent in him to send messages to you, even through us. We intended to rebuke his
                        presumption by ignoring the messages. Why, he even went so far as to ask us to let you write to
                        him yourself."
                    Agatha received all this in silence, controlling herself with difficulty. It was not until a full
                        minute after her aunt had ceased to speak that she said:
                    "Go on, please."
                    "There would seem to be no more to say; for surely it is needless to comment upon Mr.
                        Pegram's crowning impertinence in writing directly to you."
                    "Go on, please. Tell me all about it. You see I don't at all
                        understand."
                    By this time the good dames began to realise that Agatha was either very angry or very deeply
                        hurt, so they decided to soothe and placate her. This is how they did it.
                    "No, dear, I suppose you do not understand. How should you, with such bringing up as
                        your  grandfather gave you? Of all the strange
                        perversities"
                    "Stop!" cried Agatha, rising from her chair with a look upon her face which her
                        aunts did not understand but gravely feared. Their last spoken words had set her free to speak.
                        She had not dared resent their criticism of Baillie Pegram's conduct. That might have
                        been misinterpreted. But the reflection upon her grandfather was a different matter. She stood
                        there livid to the lips and shaking with the indignation which she was struggling to suppress.
                        After that one word, "Stop!" she remained silent for a space, struggling to
                        restrain the angry utterance that was surging to her lips. At last, speaking in a constrained
                        voice, she said:
                    "I will not hear another word. Neither you nor any other human being is worthy to speak
                        my grandfather's name except with reverence. He was great, and wise, and unspeakably
                        good. He hated lies and shams and false conventionalities."
                    Here the roused tigress in Agatha was sharply restrained. She found herself about to indulge in a
                        tirade, and that she was resolved not on any  account to do. Still
                        speaking in a voice of enforced calm, she added:
                    "I must go now and write to Captain Pegram. I shall dine with the Misses Blair at The
                        Forest to-day."
                    To Baillie she wrote:
                    "It is very kind of you to feel so much solicitude on my account. But it is needless, as
                        I am quite well again and growing stronger every day. I go in half an hour to dine at The
                        Forest, where I shall remain till to-morrow. After that I shall go to Richmond in search of some
                        way in which I may be of service. I am pleased to hear through Sam that you are so greatly
                        better. Thank you again for all your kindness to me, and good-bye."
                    Having despatched this note, Agatha donned her hat and cloak and walked out of the house. Without
                        a pause she passed on through the grounds and along the road to the plantation known as The
                        Forest.
                    She had made no adieus to her aunts. "To do that," she reflected, "I
                        should have to tell lies, or act them. I should have to say I am sorry to leave them, and I am
                        not sorry. Oh, Chummie! the world is very lonely now that you are not in  it! But you mustn't grieve in heaven, Chummie. It will not be for long,
                        you know, and while I stay here I'm going to try harder than ever to be true and good
                        and altogether truthful, as you want me to be, and when I go to join you I'll be happy
                        enough to make up for all these little troubles here."
                    At that moment a merry gust of wind blew off her headgear. She picked it up, but did not replace
                        it on her head. She liked to feel the crisp breezes in her face. She even indulged the fancy
                        that they bore caresses to her from Chummie.
                
                
                
                    XXXIII
                    UNDER RED LEAVES
                    
                    AGATHA'S note, coming after her curt message, was a sore puzzle to its recipient. One
                        might interpret it to mean anything or nothing. It was courteous enough, but its courtesy was
                        colourless and cold. It was such a note as might have been addressed to the veriest stranger.
                        There was nothing in it to reassure the master of Warlock as to Agatha's view of his
                        conduct, nothing to allay his fear that she had resented his inquiries as an impertinence. On
                        the contrary, if that were the meaning of the former silence and of the morning's
                        message, this note was precisely such as a sensitively self-respecting young woman might have
                        written when compelled by his persistence to write to him at all.
                    It was a very bad quarter of an hour with him,  during which he
                        read the missive a dozen times, unable to make out what it meant.
                    But Baillie Pegram was not a man to despair until he must, or to rest under a painful
                        uncertainty. It was his habit of mind to meet dangers and difficulties half-way, and question
                        them insistently concerning their extent. He called Sam, therefore, and bade him bring the
                        easy-going pacer which he had begun to ride for exercise, and mounting the animal he set off at
                        a gentle gait toward The Forest.
                    He appeared there half an hour before the four o'clock dinner was announced, and his
                        welcome by his hostesses, Miss Blair and her sister, was all the warmer for the reason that his
                        arrival indicated, more surely than any message from Warlock could have done, the extent of his
                        convalescence.
                    Perhaps he was welcome also on another account. For the Misses Blair were deeply concerned about
                        Agatha, and they hoped that he might persuade her, as they had failed to do, to give up her plan
                        of going to Richmond and seeking service as a hospital nurse or in some other capacity in which
                        a woman might employ herself.  They were deeply concerned as to
                        the matter of nursing for the reason that it was deemed highly improper in Virginia for any but
                        married women to nurse in the military hospitals, where the patients, of course, were men.
                    Agatha had told them as little as possible of her affairs. She had said nothing whatever of her
                        quarrel with her aunts, only telling them that she had left The Oaks finally, and asking them to
                        send thither for such personal belongings as she had there, so that she might remain overnight
                        at The Forest, and go to Richmond on the morrow. The younger Miss Blair had volunteered to go in
                        person on this errand, and from her the ladies at The Oaks had first learned that Agatha had
                        finally quitted the place in her resentment. They were greatly distressed, and immediately
                        ordered their carriage and drove to The Forest, where Baillie Pegram found them on his arrival.
                    Their pleadings with Agatha had been earnest, insistent, and wholly fruitless. She had manifested
                        no anger, and they had discovered no resentment in her voice as she replied to them. She had
                        made no complaints and uttered no  reproaches. To all their
                        pleadings she had answered, simply:
                    "I have quite decided upon my course. I shall not change my plans."
                    The good dames were in such despair that they even welcomed Baillie's coming.
                    "We have done everything, said everything," they hastily explained to him;
                        "why, we have almost apologised to the child, and all to no purpose.
                        Perhaps you can have some influence, Captain Pegram. Will you not speak to her?"
                    "I shall speak to her, of course," was his reply. "I am here indeed
                        for that express purpose. But I shall certainly not try to dissuade her from any course that she
                        may desire to pursue. That would be an impertinence of which I am incapable."
                    The Oaks ladies flushed as he spoke the word "impertinence," remembering their
                        own recent use of the term in connection with his conduct. Perhaps Agatha had told him of that
                        in her letter, they thought. If so it would be most embarrassing for them to dine in his company
                        and hers. So, pleading their great agitation of mind as their excuse, they returned at once to
                        The Oaks, leaving  Baillie and Agatha as the only guests of the
                        Misses Blair at dinner.
                    When left alone with the young woman after dinner, the master of Warlock opened the conversation
                        as promptly as it was his custom to open fire when the proper moment had come.
                    "Agatha," he began, as the two stood in the piazza in the glow of the early
                        setting sun and in the midst of the blood-red Virginia creepers that embowered the place,
                        "Agatha, do you remember the words I spoke to you on the picket-line at Fairfax
                        Court-house?" Then without waiting for her reply, he continued: "I have come
                        to you now to say those words over again, at a more fitting time and in a more appropriate
                        place. I love you. I have loved you ever since those days in Richmond, those precious days when
                        I first began to know you for what you are. I loved you all through that cruel time when, in
                        obedience to what you believed was your duty, you decreed that there should be 'war
                        between me and thee.' And now after all that you have done and dared for me, my love
                        for a nature so pure, so noble, so heroic, passes understanding. 
                        I have a right to tell you this now. Tell me in return, if it displeases you?"
                    With that absolute truthfulness which was the basis of her nature, Agatha replied as frankly as
                        he had spoken.
                    "It pleases me," she said. "I had not expected this. I thought I had
                        repulsed you so rudely thatoh! Baillie, you will never know."
                    In a torrent of tears that were a more welcome answer than any words could have been, she buried
                        her face in her hands.
                    Half an hour later these two sat by a crackling fire, arranging practical affairs.
                    "You do not wish to go back to The Oaks, then, even for a few weeks, and to save
                        appearances?"
                    "No, Baillie, I cannot. I should have to act a lie every hour of my stay there. I should
                        be obliged to pretend friendship for my aunts when I feel nothing of the kind. They have
                        insulted the memory of my grandfather, and they have spoken of you in a way that never so long
                        as I live will I let any human being speak of you without resenting it. I do not care to
                        'save appearances,' as you put it. Appearances may look  out for themselves. 'Saving appearances' is only a sneaking way
                        of lying. No. I will go to some friends in Richmond, if they will let me"
                    "Why not go to Warlock?" he asked.
                    "Why, that would outrage the proprieties beyond forgiveness now that wewell, under the
                        circumstances."
                    So Mistress Agatha did "care for appearances" and conventions after all. But
                        Baillie did not think of that.
                    "Why not go there as the mistress of Warlockas my wife?" he asked.
                        "Why should we not be married to-morrow at Christ-Church-in-the-Woods? I am a soldier.
                        I shall be strong enough to return to duty presently. When I do so I shall want to feel that you
                        are safe at Warlock, that you are mine, my wife to cherish while I live. Say that it shall be
                        so, Agatha! Let me send word to Mr. Berkeley, the rector, to-night, that we shall be at the
                        church at noon tomorrow!"
                    The girl thought for a moment, and then said:
                    "Yes, that will be best. For then, if you fall ill or are wounded again, I shall have a
                        right to 
                        
                            
                                "'At Christ-church-in-the-woods'"
                            
                        
                         go to you and care for you. Let it be so. Now you must not ride
                        to Warlock on horseback to-night. It is very cool, and you have already overtaxed your strength.
                        I shall ask Miss Blair to send you over in her carriage."
                    When he had gone Agatha announced the news to her hostesses and straightway set about writing a
                        score of little notes to be despatched by negro messengers early in the morning, to her friends
                        in the neighbourhood. To her aunts she wrote simply, and without formal address of any kind, the
                        bare statement:
                    "Captain Baillie Pegram and I are to be married to-morrow, Thursday, at noon, at
                        Christ-Church-in-the-Woods."
                    This note she sent before going to bed. When it was received at The Oaks, a conversation ensued
                        which was largely ejaculatory:
                    "How shocking!"
                    "Yes, and how scandalous!"
                    "What will people say!"
                    "The girl must be bewitched!"
                    "And yet it is better than nursing soldiers, and she an unmarried woman!"
                    "Perhaps. At any rate it is clear that we can  exercise no
                        restraint over the poor, headstrong child."
                    "No, Captain Pegram has completely undermined our influence. Of course we cannot lend
                        our countenance to the affair by attending!"
                    "I think we must. Otherwise people will talk. They might even call it a runaway
                        match."
                    "That would be too dreadful!"
                    "Yes. I think we must put the best face we can on the affair by attending. In these
                        wartimes everything is topsyturvy. Ah, me! What a pity we couldn't have had the
                        child's bringing-up to ourselves!"
                    "Yes, we should have made a very different woman of her. Anyhow, with this marriage all
                        our responsibility for her will be at an end. And after all, perhaps it is as well to have it
                        so, for if she had remained single there is no knowing at what moment she would have done
                        something else as scandalous as her going North to nurse Mr. Pegram was."
                    And so they cackled for half the night.
                
                
                
                    XXXIV
                    THE END AND AFTER
                    
                    A FEW weeks later came the news that a campaign was on and battle impending. Burnside had
                        replaced McClellan in command of the Federal armies in Virginia. He had at once begun a campaign
                        against Richmond, moving by way of Fredericksburg. There Lee met him, posting the Southern
                        veterans on the circling hills behind the town and awaiting his adversary's assault.
                    Baillie Pegram had resumed command of his battery now, but no longer with the light guns that he
                        had used while galloping with Stuart. A captured Federal battery of six twelve-pounder Napoleons
                        had been assigned to him, and with these he took position on the crest of Marye's
                        Heights, where there was presently to occur one of the most heroic battles of all the war.
                    It was nearly mid-December when Burnside  crossed the river and
                        moved to assault Lee. His army, though greater than Lee's, was not quite so great in
                        numbers as it had been when McClellan had commanded it near Richmond's gates; but it
                        was greatly more formidable in all other respects. The men who composed it were war-seasoned
                        veterans now, and its officers had fully learned their trade of command. Moreover the army had
                        successfully held its own against Lee at Sharpsburg, and the confidence inspired by that event
                        was an important element of strength. But in Burnside the Federal administration had again
                        failed to find a leader capable of so employing the North's stupendous resources of
                        men, money, and material as to crush the splendid resistance of the Army of Northern Virginia.
                    So Burnside failed, as McDowell, and McClellan, and Pope had failed before, and as Hooker, who
                        succeeded him in command, failed even more conspicuously, when, in the following spring, he made
                        the campaign of Chancellorsville.
                    After Chancellorsville Lee crossed the Potomac again. Then came Gettysburg, which proved to be
                        the turning-point in the war, so far as the armies of Virginia were concerned.
                    
                    For before the next campaign openedthe campaign of the Wilderness, Spottsylvania, and Cold
                        Harbourthe North had recognised in Grant a leader who knew what use to make of the means at his
                        command, and, more important still, a leader who clearly saw that the strength of the
                        Confederacy lay, not in the possession of cities or the holding of strategic positions, but in
                        the superb fighting force of Lee's army. Grant, in supreme command of all the armies of
                        the Union, directed the work of all of them to the one task of crushing Lee, and in the end he
                        accomplished it. When that was done, this most stupendous war in modern history was over.
                    In all these epoch-making events the master of Warlock did his part, with a devotion that wrought
                        a colonel's stars upon his collar and added honour to the name he bore. During the long
                        winter of 1863-64, while the mud-bound armies lay helplessly idle in winter quarters, Baillie
                        had Agatha with him in his log hut near Orange Court-house, and before the campaign opened at
                        the Wilderness in the spring, an heir to Warlock was born in camp,a child veritably
                        "cradled in a revolution."
                    
                    Agatha was near her husband, too, during the long siege of Petersburg, though she could not be
                        actually with him; for his place was on the lines, where the "scream of shot, and burst
                        of shell, and bellowing of the mortars" were ceaseless by night and by day, for the
                        space of eight months, before the end came. But she was always near at hand, as one of that
                        heroic band of women who stayed and starved in the beleaguered city, heedless of the storm of
                        huge shells that daily wrecked buildings there and tore cavernous trenches in the streets. She
                        remained there to the end as the others did, in order that they might minister in loving,
                        life-saving ways to the wounded, who were daily brought in from the lines on ever-busy litters.
                    When at last the attenuated lines that had so long and so heroically held their ground against an
                        ever-increasing disparity of numbers, were broken, and Lee ordered the instant evacuation of the
                        city, Agatha made her way on foot to Warlock, and there, with her babe, awaited the return of
                        the man she loved, and whose voice she fancied she could hear in the receding echoes of the
                        cannon.
                    
                    He came at last,ten days later,and Agatha greeted him with loving looks and words that cheered
                        him in that despondency that at first made every returning Confederate lament that he had not
                        been permitted to share the fate of those who had fallen facing the foe.
                    Over the mantel in that family room which in Virginia was always called "the
                        chamber," Agatha hung up the artillery sword, the pistols, the colonel's sash,
                        and the Mexican spurs that the master of Warlock had worn in his campaigning.
                    "Those are for the little boy to see daily as he grows up, so that he may know what
                        manner of man his mother wishes him to becomewhat manner of man his mother loves and
                        reveres."
                    Then she brought two other mementos and hung them also on the wall. One was the
                        sergeant-major's jacket on which she had stitched the chevrons on the day before
                        Manassas.
                    "So you found the old jacket, did you?" asked Baillie. "I kept it as a
                        reminder of you."
                    "YesI know. I found it in the little closet where you had hung it. I should have left it
                        there always, just as your hands had placed it, ifif you had not come back to Warlock
                        again."
                    
                    She was weeping now, but her face was joyous in spite of the tears. For had he not come back to
                        her, strong and well and still young? And should not they two find ways in which to meet their
                        present poverty with stout hearts and heads erect?
                    "We must 'look up,' Baillie, 'and not downforward and not
                        backward.' We have each other left"
                    "And the boyour boy!" he interrupted. "Yes, we have
                        enough to live forenough to enrich our lives to the end. And thanks to you I have courage left
                        both to do and to endure."
                    "Courage? Of course. You could never lose that and still live. It is as vital a part of
                        you as your head itself is."
                    Then she brought the other memento and fastened it into its place. It was a faded red feather.
                    "I have carried that on my person," she said, "ever since that day at
                        Fairfax Court-house when you first told me that you loved me."
                    A few months later Marshall Pollard came. He hobbled upon a cork leg which he had not  yet learned to use with ease, but the old smile was on his face,
                        the old cheer in his voice.
                    "Agatha," he said, "I should like to occupy my old quarters here
                        during my stay, if I may. You see, Baillie, it is as I told you long years agoI must ask leave
                        of my lady now. But I don't mind, as my lady happens to be Agatha instead of some
                        other."
                    "And your other prediction is fulfilled, too," answered the master of Warlock,
                        "the prediction that you made out there by the plantation gate. The old life of
                        Virginia is completely gone, the old conditions have been utterly swept away. We can never
                        re-create them. We can never bring the old life back, and perhaps it is better so. We Virginians
                        had for generations lived in the past. Our manner of life and all our conceptions of living were
                        those of a century ago. We had not kept step with progress. We have been rudely shaken out of
                        the lethargic ease that was so delightful and perhaps so bad for us. We are free now to create a
                        new life in tune with that of the modern world.
                    "And we shall do that right manfully. We shall develop the resources of our region, and
                        the  South will grow more prosperous than it ever was before.
                        Better still, our children will be educated in the gospel of work, and learn the lesson that was
                        never taught to you and me till war came to teach us, that it is in strenuous endeavour, and not
                        in paralysing ease, that a man finds the greatest happiness in life."
                    "Tell me of your plans, Baillie."
                    "They are not mine. They are Agatha's. We have arranged to convert this
                        plantation, and The Oaks, and all the land round aboutfor the company we have formed has bought
                        every acre that could be hadinto a nest of coal mines. The deposit is a rich one, you know, and
                        I have had no difficulty in getting practical men with abundant capital to join me in the
                        enterprise. We are already building a branch railroad to carry our product. But there is to be
                        no shaft sunk within half a mile of Warlock House, so that I shall be 'master of
                        Warlock' still. Tell us now of your own affairs, Marshall."
                    "There is not much to tell. Thanks to Agatha's wonderful economy in spending, I
                        still have investments at the North which yield me a sufficient income for my small needs. I
                        have  divided my plantation into little farms, and have let them
                        to the best of the negroes and to some white farmers. I am to get my rentals in the shape of a
                        share of the crops. This sets me free to do the work that best pleases me. You know I have been
                        writing in a small way with some success ever since I grew up. I shall write some books now. I
                        think I have some messages to deliver that some at least of my fellow men may be the better or
                        the happier for hearing."
                    "But you will want to marry some day."
                    "No. My 'some day' died years ago."
                    THE END.
                
            
        
        
            
            
                The Master of Warlock
                By GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON, Author of "Dorothy South," "A Carolina
                    Cavalier." Six Illustrations by C. D. Williams. 12mo. Dark red cloth, illustrated cover,
                    gilt top, rough edges. Price, $1.50 each.
                "THE MASTER OF WARLOCK" has an interesting plot, and is full of purity of
                    sentiment, charm of atmosphere, and stirring doings. One of the typical family feuds of Virginia
                    separates the lovers at first; but, when the hero goes to the war, the heroine undergoes many
                    hardships and adventures to serve him, and they are happily united in the end.
            
            
                Dorothy South
                A STORY OF VIRGINIA JUST BEFORE THE WAR
                Baltimore Sun says:
                "No writer in the score and more of novelists now exploiting the Southern field can, for a
                    moment, compare in truth and interest to Mr. Eggleston. In the novel before us we have a peculiarly
                    interesting picture of the Virginian in the late fifties. We are taken into the life of the people.
                    We are shown the hearts of men and women. Characters are clearly drawn, and incidents are skilfully
                    presented.
            
            
                A Carolina Cavalier
                A STIRRING TALE OF WAR AND ADVENTURE
                Philadelphia Home Advocate says:
                "As a love story, 'A Carolina Cavalier' is sweet and true; but as a
                    patriotic novel, it is grand and inspiring. We have seldom found a stronger and simpler appeal to
                    our manhood and love of country."
                Lothrop Publishing Company-Boston
            
            
            
                The Captain
                By CHURCHILL WILLIAMS, author of "J. DevlinBoss." Illustrated by A. I. Keller.
                    12mo. Dark red cloth, decorative cover, rough edges. Price, $1.50 each.
                WHO is the Captain? thousands of readers of this fine book will be asking. It is a story of love and
                    war, of scenes and characters before and during the great civil conflict. It has lots of color and
                    movement, and the splendid figure naming the book dominates the whole.
            
            
                J. DevlinBoss
                A ROMANCE OF AMERICAN POLITICS. Blue cloth, decorative cover. 12mo. Price, $1.50.
                Mary E. Wilkins says:
                "I am delighted with your book. Of all the first novels, I believe yours is the very best.
                    The novel is American to the core. The spirit of the times is in it. It is inimitably clever. It is
                    an amazing first novel, and no one except a real novelist could have written it."
                Lothrop Publishing Company-Boston
            
        
    
