
     ----CITATION---- 
        Nicholson, Meredith, 1866-1947. The House of a Thousand Candles: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2365
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    "I shall scorn to remember you!" and she folded her arms
                        under the cloak tragically.
                    
                        Page 164
                    
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE HOUSE OF A THOUSAND CANDLES
                
                BY MEREDITH NICHOLSON
                     AUTHOR OF THE PORT OF MISSING MEN, ROSALIND AT REDGATE, THE MAIN
                    CHANCE, ETC.
                
                    "So on the morn there fell new tidings and other
                        adventures"
                    Malory
                
                
                    NEW YORK
                    GROSSET & DUNLAP PUBLISHERS
                
            
            
            
                Copyright 1905 THE BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY
                     NOVEMBER
                
            
            
            
                
                    To Margaret my Sister
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I THE WILL OF JOHN MARSHALL GLENARM
                        1
                        
                    II A FACE AT SHERRY'S
                        22
                    III THE HOUSE OF A THOUSAND CANDLES
                        37
                    IV A VOICE FROM THE LAKE
                        47
                    V A RED TAM-O'-SHANTER
                        63
                    VI THE GIRL AND THE CANOE
                        80
                    VII THE MAN ON THE WALL
                        89
                    VIII A STRING OF GOLD BEADS
                        102
                    IX THE GIRL AND THE RABBIT
                        112
                    X AN AFFAIR WITH
                        THE CARETAKEB
                        129
                    XI I RECEIVE A CALLER
                        142
                    XII I EXPLORE A PASSAGE
                        153
                    XIII A PAIR OF EAVESDROPPERS
                        166
                    XIV THE GIRL IN GRAY
                        177
                    XV I MAKE AN ENGAGEMENT
                        191
                    XVI THE PASSING OF OLIVIA
                        200
                    XVII SISTER THERESA
                        213
                    XVIII GOLDEN BUTTERFLIES
                        225
                    XIX I MEET AN OLD FRIEND
                        239
                    XX A TRIPLE ALLIANCE
                        255
                    XXI PICKERING SERVES NOTICE
                        268
                    XXII THE RETURN OF MARIAN DEVEREUX
                        278
                    XXIII THE DOOR OF BEWILDERMENT
                        288
                    XXIV A PROWLER OF THE NIGHT
                        304
                    XXV BESIEGED
                        316
                    XXVI THE FIGHT IN THE LIBRARY
                        329
                    XXVII CHANGES AND CHANCES
                        351
                    XXVIII SHORTER VISTAS
                        363
                    XXIX AND SO THE LIGHT LED MB
                        370
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE HOUSE OF A THOUSAND CANDLES
                
                THE HOUSE OF A THOUSAND CANDLES
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    THE WILL OF JOHN MARSHALL GLENARM
                    Pickering's letter bringing news of my grandfathers death found me
                        at Naples early in October. John Marshall Glenarm had died in June. He had
                        left a will which gave me his property conditionally, Pickering wrote, and
                        it was necessary for me to return immediately to qualify as legatee. It was
                        the merest luck that the letter came to my hands at all, for it had been
                        sent to Constantinople, in care of the consul-general instead of my banker
                        there. It was not Pickering's fault that the consul was a friend of
                        mine who kept  track of my wanderings and was
                        able to hurry the executor's letter after me to Italy, where I had
                        gone to meet an English financier who had, I was advised, unlimited money to
                        spend on African railways. I am an engineer, a graduate of an American
                        institution familiarly known as "Tech," and as my funds
                        were running low, I naturally turned to my profession for employment.
                    But this letter changed my plans, and the following day I cabled Pickering of
                        my departure and was outward bound on a steamer for New York. Fourteen days
                        later I sat in Pickering's office in the Alexis Building and
                        listened intently while he read, with much ponderous emphasis, the
                        provisions of my grandfather's will. When he concluded, I laughed.
                        Pickering was a serious man, and I was glad to see that my levity pained
                        him. I had, for that matter, always been a source of annoyance to him, and
                        his look of distrust and rebuke did not trouble me in the least.
                    I reached across the table for the paper, and he gave the sealed and
                        beribboned copy of John Marshall Glenarm's will into my hands. I
                        read it through for myself, feeling conscious meanwhile that
                        Pickering's cool gaze was bent inquiringly upon me. These are the
                        paragraphs that interested me most: 
                            I give and bequeath unto my said grandson, John Glenarm, sometime a
                                resident of the City and State of New 
                                York, and later a vagabond of parts unknown, a certain property
                                known as Glenarm House, with the land thereunto pertaining and
                                hereinafter more particularly described, and all personal property
                                of whatsoever kind thereunto belonging and attached thereto,the said
                                realty lying in the County of Wabana in the State of Indiana, upon
                                this condition, faithfully and honestly performed:
                            That said John Glenarm shall remain for the period of one year an
                                occupant of said Glenarm House and my lands attached thereto,
                                demeaning himself meanwhile in an orderly and temperate manner.
                                Should he fail at any time during said year to comply with this
                                provision, said property shall revert to my general estate and
                                become without reservation, and without necessity for any process of
                                law, the property, absolutely, of Marian Devereux, of the County and
                                State of New York.
                        
                    
                    "Well," he demanded, striking his hands upon the arms of
                        his chair, "what do you think of it?"
                    For the life of me I could not help laughing again. There was, in the first
                        place, a delicious irony in the fact that I should learn through him of my
                        grandfather's wishes with respect to myself. Pickering and I had
                        grown up in the same town in Vermont; we had attended the same preparatory
                        school, but there had been from boyhood a certain antagonism between us. He
                        had always succeeded where I had failed, which is to say, I must admit, that
                        he had succeeded pretty frequently. When I refused to settle down to my
                        profession, but chose to see something of the world first,  Pickering gave himself seriously to the law,
                        and there was, I knew from the beginning, no manner of chance that he would
                        fail.
                    I am not more or less than human, and I remembered with joy that once I had
                        thrashed him soundly at the prep school for bullying a smaller boy; but our
                        score from school-days was not without tallies on his side. He was easily
                        the better scholarI grant him that; and he was shrewd and plausible. You
                        never quite knew the extent of his powers and resources, and he had, I
                        always maintained, the most amazing good luck,as witness the fact that John
                        Marshall Glenarm had taken a friendly interest in him. It was wholly like my
                        grandfather, who was a man of many whims, to give his affairs into
                        Pickering's keeping; and I could not complain, for I had missed my
                        own chance with him. It was, I knew readily enough, part of my punishment
                        for having succeeded so signally in incurring my grandfather's
                        displeasure that he had made it necessary for me to treat with Arthur
                        Pickering in this matter of the will; and Pickering was enjoying the
                        situation to the full. He sank back in his chair with an air of complacency
                        that had always been insufferable in him. I was quite willing to be
                        patronized by a man of years and experience; but Pickering was my own age,
                        and his experience of life seemed to me preposterously  inadequate. To find him settled in New York, where he had been
                        established through my grandfather's generosity, and the executor
                        of my grandfather's estate, was hard to bear.
                    But there was something not wholly honest in my mirth, for my conduct during
                        the three preceding years had been reprehensible. I had used my grandfather
                        shabbily. My parents died when I was a child, and he had cared for me as far
                        back as my memory ran. He had suffered me to spend without restraint the
                        fortune left by my father; he had expected much of me, and I had grievously
                        disappointed him. It was his hope that I should devote myself to
                        architecture, a profession for which he had the greatest admiration, whereas
                        I had insisted on engineering.
                    I am not writing an apology for my life, and I shall not attempt to extenuate
                        my conduct in going abroad at the end of my course at Tech and, when I made
                        Laurance Donovan's acquaintance, in setting off with him on a
                        career of adventure. I do not regret, though possibly it would be more to my
                        credit if I did, the months spent leisurely following the Danube east of the
                        Iron GateLaurance Donovan always with me, while we urged the villagers and
                        inn-loafers to all manner of sedition, acquitting ourselves so well that,
                        when we came out into the Black Sea for further pleasure,  Russia did us the honor to keep a spy at our
                        heels. I should like, for my own satisfaction, at least, to set down an
                        account of certain affairs in which we were concerned at Belgrad, but
                        without Larry's consent I am not at liberty to do so. Nor shall I
                        take time here to describe our travels in Africa, though our study of the
                        Atlas Mountain dwarfs won us honorable mention by the British Ethnological
                        Society.
                    These were my yesterdays; but to-day I sat in Arthur Pickering's
                        office in the towering Alexis Building, conscious of the muffled roar of
                        Broadway, discussing the terms of my Grandfather Glenarm's will
                        with a man whom I disliked as heartily as it is safe for one man to dislike
                        another. Pickering had asked me a question, and I was suddenly aware that
                        his eyes were fixed upon me and that he awaited my answer.
                    What do I think of it?" I repeated. "I don't know
                        that it makes any difference what I think, but I'll tell you, if
                        you want to know, that I call it infamous, outrageous, that a man should
                        leave a ridiculous will of that sort behind him. All the old money-bags who
                        pile up fortunes magnify the importance of their money. They imagine that
                        every kindness, every ordinary courtesy shown them, is merely a bid for a
                        slice of the cake. I'm disappointed in my grandfather. He was a
                        splendid old man, though God knows he had his queer ways  Ill bet a thousand dollars, if I have so much
                        money in the world, that this scheme is yours, Pickering, and not his. It
                        smacks of your ancient vindictiveness, and John Marshall Glenarm had none of
                        that in his blood. That stipulation about my residence out there is
                        fantastic. I don't have to be a lawyer to know that; and no doubt I
                        could break the will; I've a good notion to try it,
                        anyhow."
                    "To be sure. You can tie up the estate for half a dozen years if you
                        like," he replied coolly. He did not look upon me as likely to
                        become a formidable litigant. My staying qualities had been proved weak long
                        ago, as Pickering knew well enough.
                    "No doubt you would like that," I answered. "But
                        I'm not going to give you the pleasure. I abide by the terms of the
                        will. My grandfather was a fine old gentleman. I shan't drag his
                        name through the courts, not even to please you, Arthur Pickering,"
                        I declared hotly.
                    "The sentiment is worthy of a good man, Glenarm," he
                        rejoined.
                    "But this woman who is to succeed to my rights,I don't seem
                        to remember her."
                    "It is not surprising that you never heard of her."
                    "Then she's not a connection of the family,no longlost
                        cousin whom I ought to remember?"
                    
                    No; she was a late acquaintance of your grandfather's. He met her
                        through an old friend of his, Miss Evans, known as Sister Theresa. Miss
                        Devereux is Sister Theresa's niece."
                    I whistled. I had a dim recollection that during my grandfather's
                        long widowerhood there were occasional reports that he was about to marry.
                        The name of Miss Evans had been mentioned in this connection. I had heard it
                        spoken of in my family, and not, I remembered, with much kindness. Later, I
                        heard of her joining a Sisterhood, and opening a school somewhere in the
                        West.
                    "And Miss Devereux,is she an elderly nun, too?"
                    "I don't know how elderly she is, but she isn't a
                        nun at present. Still, she's almost alone in the world, and she and
                        Sister Theresa are very intimate."
                    "Pass the will again, Pickering, while I make sure I grasp these
                        diverting ideas. Sister Theresa isn't the one I mustn't
                        marry, is she? It's the other ecclesiastical embroidery artist,the
                        one with the x in her name, suggesting the algebra of my
                        vanishing youth."
                    I read aloud this paragraph: 
                            Provided, further, that in the event of the marriage of said John
                                Glenarm to the said Marian Devereux, or in the event of any promise
                                or contract of marriage between said persons within five years from
                                the date of said John 
                                Glenarm's acceptance of the provisions of this will, the
                                whole estate shall become the property absolutely of St.
                                Agatha's School, at Annandale, Wabana County, Indiana, a
                                corporation under the laws of said state.
                        
                    
                    "For a touch of comedy commend me to my grandfather! Pickering, you
                        always were a well-meaning fellow, I'll turn over to you all my
                        right, interest and title in and to these angelic Sisters. Marry! I like the
                        idea! I suppose some one will try to marry me for my money. Marriage,
                        Pickering, is not embraced in my scheme of life!"
                    "I should hardly call you a marrying man," he observed.
                    "Perfectly right, my friend! Sister Theresa was considered a
                        possible match for my grandfather in my youth. She and I are hardly
                        contemporaries. And the other lady with the fascinating algebraic climax to
                        her name,she, too, is impossible; it seems that I can't get the
                        money by marrying her. I'd better let her take it. She's
                        as poor as the devil, I dare say."
                    "I imagine not. The Evanses are a wealthy family, in spots, and she
                        ought to have some money of her own if her aunt doesn't coax it out
                        of her for educational schemes."
                    "And where on the map are these lovely creatures to be
                        found?"
                    
                    "Sister Theresa's school adjoins your preserve; Miss
                        Devereux has, I think, some of your own weakness for travel. Sister Theresa
                        is her nearest relative, and she occasionally visits St.
                        Agatha'sthat's the school."
                    "I suppose they embroider altar-cloths together and otherwise labor
                        valiantly to bring confusion upon Satan and his cohorts. Just the people to
                        pull the wool over the eyes of my grandfather!"
                    Pickering smiled at my resentment.
                    "You'd better give them a wide berth; they might catch you
                        in their net. Sister Theresa is said to have quite a winning way. She
                        certainly plucked your grandfather."
                    "Nuns in spectacles, the gentle educators of youth and that sort of
                        thing, with a good-natured old man for their prey. None of them for
                        me!"
                    "I rather thought so," remarked Pickering,and he pulled his
                        watch from his pocket and turned the stem with his heavy fingers. He was
                        short, thick-set and sleek, with a square jaw, hair already thin and a
                        closeclipped mustache. Age, I reflected, was not improving him.
                    I had no intention of allowing him to see that I was irritated. I drew out my
                        cigarette case and passed it across the table.
                    
                    "After you! They're made quite specially for me in
                        Madrid."
                    "You forget that I never use tobacco in any form."
                    "You always did miss a good deal of the joy of living," I
                        observed, throwing my smoking match into his waste-paper basket, to his
                        obvious annoyance. "Well, I'm the bad boy of the
                        story-books; but I'm really sorry my inheritance has a string tied
                        to it. I'm about out of money. I suppose you wouldn't
                        advance me a few thousands on my expectations"
                    "Not a cent," he declared, with quite unnecessary vigor;
                        and I laughed again, remembering that in my old appraisement of him,
                        generosity had not been represented in large figures.
                        "It's not in keeping with your grandfather's
                        wishes that I should do so. You must have spent a good bit of money in your
                        tigerhunting exploits," he added.
                    "I have spent all I had," I replied amiably.
                        "Thank God I'm not a clam! I've seen the world
                        and paid for it. I don't want anything from you. You undoubtedly
                        share my grandfather's idea of me that I'm a wild man who
                        can't sit still or lead an orderly, decent life; but I'm
                        going to give you a terrible disappointment. What's the size of the
                        estate?"
                    Pickering eyed meuneasily, I thoughtand began 
                        playing with a pencil. I never liked Pickering's hands; they were
                        thick and white and better kept than I like to see a man's hands.
                    "I fear it's going to be disappointing. In his trustcompany
                        boxes here I have been able to find only about ten thousand
                        dollars' worth of securities. Possibly quite possiblywe were all
                        deceived in the amount of his fortune. Sister Theresa wheedled large sums
                        out of him, and he spent, as you will see, a small fortune on the house at
                        Annandale without finishing it. It wasn't a cheap proposition, and
                        in its unfinished condition it is practically valueless. You must know that
                        Mr. Glenarm gave away a great deal of money in his lifetime. Moreover, he
                        established your father. You know what he left,it was not a small fortune as
                        those things are reckoned."
                    I was restless under this recital. My father's estate had been of
                        respectable size, and I had dissipated the whole of it. My conscience
                        pricked me as I recalled an item of forty thousand dollars that I had
                        spentsomewhat grandlyon an expedition that I led, with considerable
                        satisfaction to myself, at least, through the Sudan. But
                        Pickering's words amazed me.
                    "Let me understand you," I said, bending toward him.
                        "My grandfather was supposed to be rich, and yet you tell me you
                        find little property. Sister Theresa  got money
                        from him to help build a school. How much was that?"
                    "Fifty thousand, dollars. It was an open account. His books show the
                        advances, but he took no notes."
                    "And that claim is worth?"
                    "It is good as against her individually. But she contends"
                    "Yes, go on!"
                    I had struck the right note. He was annoyed at my persistence and his
                        apparent discomfort pleased me.
                    "She refuses to pay. She says Mr. Glenarm made her a gift of the
                        money."
                    "That's possible, isn't it? He was for ever making
                        gifts to churches. Schools and theological seminaries were a sort of
                        weakness with him."
                    "That is quite true, but this account is among the assets of the
                        estate. It's my business as executor to collect it."
                    "We'll pass that. If you get this money, the estate is
                        worth sixty thousand dollars, plus the value of the land out there at
                        Annandale, and Glenarm House is worth"
                    "There you have me!"
                    It was the first lightness he had shown, and it put me on guard.
                    "I should like an idea of its value. Even an unfinished house is
                        worth something."
                    
                    "Land out there is worth from one hundred to one hundred and fifty
                        dollars an acre. There's an even hundred acres. I'll be
                        glad to have your appraisement of the house when you get there."
                    "Humph! You flatter my judgment, Pickering. The loose stuff there is
                        worth how much?"
                    "It's all in the library. Your grandfather's
                        weakness was architecture"
                    "So I remember!" I interposed, recalling my stormy
                        interviews with John Marshall Glenarm over my choice of a profession.
                    "In his last years he turned more and more to his books. He placed
                        out there what is, I suppose, the finest collection of books relating to
                        architecture to be found in this country. That was his chief hobby, after
                        church affairs, as you may remember, and he rode it hard. But he derived a
                        great deal of satisfaction from his studies."
                    I laughed again; it was better to laugh than to cry over the situation.
                    "I suppose he wanted me to sit down there, surrounded by works on
                        architecture, with the idea that a study of the subject would be my only
                        resource. The scheme is eminently Glenarmian! And all I get is a worthless
                        house, a hundred acres of land, ten thousand dollars, and a doubtful claim
                        against a Protestant nun  who hoodwinked my
                        grandfather into setting up a school for her. Bless your heart, man, so far
                        as my inheritance is concerned it would have been money in my pocket to have
                        stayed in Africa."
                    "That's about the size of it."
                    "But the personal property is all mine,anything that's
                        loose on the place. Perhaps my grandfathe planted old plate and government
                        bonds just to pique the curiosity of his heirs, successors and assigns. It
                        would be in keeping!"
                    I had walked to the window and looked out across the city. As I turned
                        suddenly I found Pickering's eyes bent upon me with curious
                        intentness. I had never liked his eyes; they were too steady. When a man
                        always meets your gaze tranquilly and readily, it is just as well to be wary
                        of him.
                    "Yes; no doubt you will find the place literally packed with
                        treasure," he said, and laughed. "Whern you find anything
                        you might wire me."
                    He smiled; the idea seemed to give him pleasure.
                    "Are you sure there's nothing else?" I asked.
                        "No substitute,no codicil?"
                    "If you know of anything of the kind it's your duty to
                        produce it. We have exhausted the possibilities. I'll admit that
                        the provisions of the will are unusual; your grandfather was a peculiar man
                        in many respects; but  he was thoroughly sane
                        and his faculties were all sound to the last."
                    "He treated me a lot better than I deserved," I said, with
                        a heartache that I had not known often in my irresponsible life; but I could
                        not afford to show feeling before Arthur Pickering.
                    I picked up the copy of the will and examined it. It was undoubtedly
                        authentic; it bore the certificate of the clerk of Wabana County, Indiana.
                        The witnesses were Thomas Bates and Arthur Pickering.
                    "Who is Bates?" I asked, pointing to the man's
                        signature.
                    "One of your grandfather's discoveries. He's in
                        charge of the house out there, and a trustworthy fellow. He's a
                        fair cook, among other things. I don't know where Mr. Glenarm got
                        Bates, but he had every confidence in him. The man was with him at the
                        end."
                    A picture of my grandfather dying, alone with a servant, while I, his only
                        kinsman, wandered in strange lands, was not one that I could contemplate
                        with much satisfaction. My grandfather had been an odd little figure of a
                        man, who always wore a long black coat and a silk hat, and carried a curious
                        silver-headed staff, and said puzzling things at which everybody was afraid
                        either to laugh or to cry. He refused to be thanked for favors.  though he was generous and helpful and
                        constantly performing kind deeds. His whimsical philanthropies were often
                        described in the newspapers. He had once given a considerable sum of money
                        to a fashionable church in Boston with the express stipulation, which he
                        safeguarded legally, that if the congregation ever intrusted its spiritual
                        welfare to a minister named Reginald, Harold or Claude, an amount equal to
                        his gift, with interest, should be paid to the Massachusetts Humane Society.
                    The thought of him touched me now. I was glad to feel that his money had
                        never been a lure to me; it did not matter whether his estate was great or
                        small, I could, at least, ease my conscience by obeying the behest of the
                        old man whose name I bore, and whose interest in the finer things of life
                        and art had given him an undeniable distinction.
                    "I should like to know something of Mr. Glenarm's last
                        days," I said abruptly.
                    "He wished to visit the village where he was born, and Bates, his
                        companion and servant, went to Vermont with him. He died quite suddenly, and
                        was buried beside his father in the old village cemetery. I saw him last
                        early in the summer. I was away from home and did not know of his death
                        until it was all over, Bates  came to report it
                        to me, and to sign the necessary papers in probating the will. It had to be
                        done in the place of the decedent's residence, and we went together
                        to Wabana, the seat of the county in which Annandale lies."
                    I was silent after this, looking out toward the sea that had lured me since
                        my earliest dreams of the world that lay beyond it.
                    "It's a poor stake, Glenarm," remarked Pickering
                        consolingly, and I wheeled upon him.
                    "I suppose you think it a poor stake! I suppose you can't
                        see anything in that old man's life beyond his money; but I
                        don't care a curse what my inheritance is! I never obeyed any of my
                        grandfather's wishes in his lifetime, but now that he's
                        dead his last wish is mandatory. I'm going out there to spend a
                        year if I die for it. Do you get my idea?"
                    "Humph! You always were a stormy petrel," he sneered.
                        "I fancy it will be safer to keep our most agreeable acquaintance
                        on a strictly business basis. If you accept the terms of the will"
                    "Of course I accept them! Do you think I am going to make a row,
                        refuse to fulfil that old man's last wish! I gave him enough
                        trouble in his life without disappointing him in his grave. I suppose
                        you'd like to have me fight the will; but I'm going to
                        disappoint you."
                    He said nothing, but played with his pencil. I had  never disliked him so heartily; he was so smug and comfortable.
                        His office breathed the very spirit of prosperity. I wished to finish my
                        business and get away.
                    "I suppose the region out there has a high death-rate.
                        How's the malaria?"
                    "Not alarmingly prevalent, I understand. There's a summer
                        resort over on one side of Lake Annandale. The place is really supposed to
                        be wholesome. I don't believe your grandfather had homicide in mind
                        in sending you there."
                    "No, he probably thought the rustication would make a man of me.
                        Must I do my own victualing? I suppose I'll be allowed to
                        eat."
                    "Bates can cook for you. He'll supply the necessities.
                        I'll instruct him to obey your orders. I assume you'll not
                        have many guests,in fact,"he studied the back of his hand
                        intently,"while that isn't stipulated, I doubt whether it
                        was your grandfather's intention that you should surround
                        yourself"
                    "With boisterous companions!" I supplied the words in my
                        cheerfullest tone. "No; my conduct shall be exemplary, Mr.
                        Pickering," I added, with affable irony.
                    He picked up a single sheet of thin type-written paper and passed it across
                        the table. It was a formal acquiescence in the provisions of the will.
                        Pickering had prepared it in advance of my coming, and this assumption  that I would accept the terms irritated me.
                        Assumptions as to what I should do under given conditions had always
                        irritated me, and accounted, in a large measure, for my proneness to
                        surprise and disappoint people. Pickering summoned a clerk to witness my
                        signature.
                    "How soon shall you take possession?" he asked. "I
                        have to make a record of that."
                    "I shall start for Indiana to-morrow," I answered.
                    "You are prompt," he replied, deliberately folding in
                        quarters the paper I had just signed. "I hoped you might dine with
                        me before going out; but I fancy New York is pretty tame after the cafs and
                        bazaars of the East."
                    His reference to my wanderings angered me again; for here was the point at
                        which I was most sensitive. I was twenty seven and had spent my patrimony; I
                        had tasted the bread of many lands, and I was doomed to spend a year
                        qualifying myself for my grandfather's legacy by settling down on
                        an abandoned and lonely Indiana farm that I had never seen and had no
                        interest in whatever.
                    As I rose to go Pickering said:
                    "It will be sufficient if you drop me a line, say once a month, to
                        let me know you are there. The post-office is Annandale."
                    
                    "I suppose I might file a supply of postal cards in the village and
                        arrange for the mailing of one every month."
                    "It might be done that way," he answered evenly.
                    "We may perhaps meet again, if I don't die of starvation or
                        ennui. Good-by."
                    We shook hands stiffly and I left him, going down in an elevator filled with
                        eager-eyed, anxious men. I, at least, had no cares of business. It made no
                        difference to me whether the market rose or fell. Something of the spirit of
                        adventure that had been my curse quickened in my heart as I walked through
                        crowded Broadway past Trinity Church to a bank and drew the balance
                        remaining on my letter of credit. I received in currency slightly less than
                        one thousand dollars.
                    As I turned from the teller's window I ran into the arms of the last
                        man in the world I expected to see.
                    This, let it be remembered, was in October of the year of our Lord, nineteen
                        hundred and one.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    A FACE AT SHERRY'S
                    "Don't mention my name an thou lovest me!" said
                        Laurance Donovan, and he drew me aside, ignored my hand and otherwise threw
                        into our meeting a casual quality that was somewhat amazing in view of the
                        fact that we had met last at Cairo.
                    
                        "Allah il Allah!"
                    
                    It was undoubtedly Larry. I felt the heat of the desert and heard the
                        camel-drivers cursing and our Sudanese guides plotting mischief under a
                        window far away.
                    "Well!" we both exclaimed interrogatively.
                    He rocked gently back and forth, with his hands in his pockets, on the tile
                        floor of the banking-house. I had seen him stand thus once on a time when we
                        had eaten nothing in four daysit was in Abyssinia, and our guides had lost
                        us in the worst possible placewith the same untroubled look in his eyes.
                    "Please don't appear surprised, or scared or anything,
                        Jack," he said, with his delicious intonation "I  saw a fellow looking for me an hour or so ago.
                        He's been at it for several months; hence my presence on these
                        shores of the brave and the free. He's probably still looking, as
                        he's a persistent devil. I'm here, as we may say, quite
                        incog. Staying at an East-side lodging-house, where I shan't invite
                        you to call on me. But I must see you."
                    "Dine with me to-night, at Sherry's"
                    "Too big, too many people"
                    "Therein lies security, if you're in trouble. I'm
                        about to go into exile, and I want to eat one more civilized dinner before I
                        go."
                    "Perhaps it's just as well. Where are you off for,not
                        Africa again?"
                    "No. Just Indiana,one of the sovereign American states, as you ought
                        to know,"
                    "Indians?"
                    "No; warranted all dead."
                    "Pack-trainballoonautomobilecamels,how do you get there?"
                    "Varnished cars. It's easy. It's not the getting
                        there; it's the not dying of ennui after you're on the
                        spot."
                    "Humph! What hour did you say for the dinner?"
                    "Seven o'clock. Meet me at the entrance."
                    "If I'm at large! Allow me to precede you through the door,
                        and don't follow me on the street, please!"
                    
                    He walked away, his gloved hands clasped lazily behind him, lounged out upon
                        Broadway and turned toward the Battery. I waited until he disappeared, then
                        took an up-town car.
                    My first meeting with Laurance Donovan was in Constantinople, at a caf where
                        I was dining. He got into a row with an Englishman and knocked him down. It
                        was not my affair, but I liked the ease and definiteness with which Larry
                        put his foe out of commission. I learned later that it was a way he had. The
                        Englishman meant well enough, but he could not, of course, know the
                        intensity of Larry's feeling about the unhappy lot of Ireland. In
                        the beginning of my own acquaintance with Donovan I sometimes argued with
                        him, but I soon learned better manners. He quite converted me to his own
                        notion of Irish affairs, and I was as hot an advocate as he of head-smashing
                        as a means of restoring Ireland's lost prestige.
                    My friend, the American consul-general at Constantinople, was not without a
                        sense of humor, and I easily enlisted him in Larry's behalf. The
                        Englishman thirsted for vengeance and invoked all the powers. He insisted,
                        with reason, that Larry was a British subject and that the American consul
                        had no right to give him asylum,a point that was, I understand, thoroughly
                        well-grounded in law and fact. Larry maintained, on  the other hand, that he was not English but Irish, and that, as
                        his country maintained no representative in Turkey, it was his privilege to
                        find refuge wherever it was offered. Larry was always the most plausible of
                        human beings, and with the connivance of the American consul we made an
                        impression, and got him off.
                    I did not realize until later that the real joke lay in the fact that Larry
                        was English-born, and that his devotion to Ireland was purely sentimental
                        and quixotic. His family had, to be sure, come out of Ireland some time in
                        the dim past, and settled in England; but when Larry reached years of
                        knowledge, if not of discretion, he cut Oxford and insisted on taking his
                        degree at Dublin. He even believed,or thought he believed,in banshees. He
                        allied himself during his university days with the most radical and
                        turbulent advocates of a separate national existence for Ireland, and
                        occasionally spent a month in jail for rioting. But Larry's
                        instincts were scholarly; he made a brilliant record at the University;
                        then, at twenty-two, he came forth to look at the world, and liked it
                        exceedingly well. His father was a busy man and he had other sons; he
                        granted Larry an allowance and told him to keep away from home until he got
                        ready to be respectable. So, from Constantinople, after a tour of Europe, we
                        together crossed the Mediterranean in search of the fleshpots  of lost kingdoms, spending three years in the
                        pursuit. We parted at Cairo on excellent terms. He returned to England and
                        later to his beloved Ireland, for he had blithely sung the wildest Gaelic
                        songs in the darkest days of our adventures, and never lost his love for The
                        Sod, as he apostrophizedand capitalizedhis adopted country.
                    Larry had the habit of immaculateness. He emerged from his East-side
                        lodging-house that night clothed properly, and wearing the gentlemanly air
                        of peace and reserve that is so wholly incompatible with his disposition to
                        breed discord and indulge in riot. When we sat down for a leisurely dinner
                        at Sherry's we were not, I modestly maintain, a forbidding pair.
                        Weif I may drag myself into the matterare both a trifle under the average
                        height, sinewy, nervous, and, just then, trained fine. Our lean,
                        clean-shaven faces were well-brownedmine wearing a fresh coat from my days
                        on the steamer's deck.
                    Larry had never been in America before, and the scene had for both of us the
                        charm of a gay and novel spectacle. I have always maintained, in talking to
                        Larry of nations and races, that the Americans are the handsomest and best
                        put-up people in the world, and I believe he was persuaded of it that night
                        as we gazed with eyes long unaccustomed to splendor upon the great  company assembled in the restaurant. The
                        lights, the music, the variety and richness of the costumes of the women,
                        the many unmistakably foreign faces, wrought a welcome spell on senses
                        inured to hardship in the waste and dreary places of earth.
                    "Now tell me the story," I said. "Have you done
                        murder? Is the offense treasonable?"
                    "It was a tenants' row in Galway, and I smashed a
                        constable. I smashed him pretty hard, I dare say, from the row they kicked
                        up in the newspapers. I lay low for a couple of weeks, caught a boat to
                        Queenstown, and here I am, waiting for a chance to get back to The Sod
                        without going in irons."
                    "You were certainly born to be hanged, Larry. You'd better
                        stay in America. There's more room here than anywhere else, and
                        it's not easy to kidnap a man in America and carry him
                        off."
                    "Possibly not; and yet the situation isn't wholly
                        tranquil," he said, transfixing a bit of pompano with his fork.
                        "Kindly note the florid gentleman at your rightat the table with
                        fourhe's next the lady in pink. It may interest you to know that
                        he's the British consul."
                    "Interesting, but not important. You don't for a moment
                        suppose"
                    "That he's looking for me? Not at all. But he undoubtedly
                             has my name on his tablets. The detective
                        that's here following me around is pretty dull. He lost me this
                        morning while I was talking to you in the bank. Later on I had the pleasure
                        of trailing him for an hour or so until he finally brought up at the British
                        consul's office. Thanks; no more of the fish. Let us banish care. I
                        wasn't born to be hanged; and as I'm a political offender,
                        I doubt whether I can be deported if they lay hands on me."
                    He watched the bubbles in his glass dreamily, holding it up in his slim
                        well-kept fingers.
                    "Tell me something of your own immediate present and
                        future," he said.
                    I made the story of my Grandfather Glenarm's legacy as brief as
                        possible, for brevity was a definite law of our intercourse.
                    "A year, you say, with nothing to do but fold your hands and wait.
                        It doesn't sound awfully attractive to me. I'd rather do
                        without the money."
                    "But I intend to do some work. I owe it to my grandfather's
                        memory to make good, if there's any good in me."
                    "The sentiment is worthy of you, Glenarm," he said
                        mockingly. "What do you seea ghost?"
                    I must have started slightly at espying suddenly Arthur Pickering not twenty
                        feet away. A party of  half a dozen or more had
                        risen, and Pickering and a girl were detached from the others for a moment.
                    She was young,quite the youngest in the group about Pickering's
                        table. A certain girlishness of height and outline may have been emphasized
                        by her juxtaposition to Pickering's heavy figure. She was in black,
                        with white showing at neck and wrists,a somber contrast to the other women
                        of the party, who were arrayed with a degree of splendor. She had dropped
                        her fan, and Pickering stooped to pick it up. In the second that she waited
                        she turned carelessly toward me, and our eyes met for an instant. Very
                        likely she was Pickering's sister, and I tried to reconstruct his
                        family, which I had known in my youth; but I could not place her. As she
                        walked out before him my eyes followed her,the erect figure, free and
                        graceful, but with a charming dignity and poise, and the gold of her fair
                        hair glinting under her black toque.
                    Her eyes, as she turned them full upon me, were the saddest, loveliest eyes I
                        had ever seen, and even in that brilliant, crowded room I felt their spell.
                        They were fixed in my memory indelibly,mournful, dreamy and wistful. In my
                        absorption I forgot Larry.
                    "You're taking unfair advantage," he observed
                        quietly. "Friends of yours?"
                    "The big chap in the lead is my friend Pickering,"  I answered; and Larry turned his head
                        slightly.
                    "Yes, I supposed you weren't looking at the
                        women", he observed dryly. "I'm sorry I
                        couldn't see the object of your interest. Bah! these men!"
                    I laughed carelessly enough, but I was already summoning from my memory the
                        grave face of the girl in black,her mournful eyes, the glint of gold in her
                        hair. Pickering was certainly finding the pleasant places in this vale of
                        tears, and I felt my heart hot against him. It hurts, this seeing a man you
                        have never liked succeeding where you have failed!
                    "Why didn't you present me? I'd like to make the
                        acquaintance of a few representative Americans,I may need them to go bail
                        for me."
                    "Pickering didn't see me, for one thing; and for another he
                        wouldn't go bail for you or me if he did. He isn't built
                        that way."
                    Larry smiled quizzically.
                    "You needn't explain further. The sight of the lady has
                        shaken you. She reminds me of Tennyson: 
                            " 'The star-like sorrows of immortal
                                eyes'
                         and the rest of it ought to be a solemn warning to you,many
                        'drew swords and died,' and calamity followed in her
                        train. Bah! these women! I thought you were past all that!"
                    
                    "I don't know why a man should be past it at twenty-seven!
                        Besides, Pickering's friends are strangers to me. But what became
                        of that Irish colleen you used to moon over? Her distinguishing feature, as
                        I remember her photograph, was a short upper lip. You used to force her upon
                        me frequently when we were in Africa."
                    "Humph! When I got back to Dublin I found that she had married a
                        brewer's son,think of it!"
                    "Put not your faith in a short upper lip! Her face never inspired
                        any confidence in me."
                    "That will do, thank you. I'll have a bit more of that
                        mayonnaise if the waiter isn't dead. I think you said your
                        grandfather died in June. A letter advising you of the fact reached you at
                        Naples in October. Has it occurred to you that there was quite an interim
                        there? What, may I ask, was the executor doing all that time? You may be
                        sure he was taking advantage of the opportunity to look for the red, red
                        gold. I suppose you didn't give him a sound drubbing for not
                        keeping the cables hot with inquiries for you?"
                    He eyed me in that disdain for my stupidity which I have never suffered from
                        any other man.
                    "Well, no; to tell the truth, I was thinking of other things during
                        the interview."
                    
                    "Your grandfather should have provided a guardian for you, lad. You
                        oughtn't to be trusted with money. Is that bottle empty? Well, if
                        that person with the fat neck was your friend Pickering, I'd have a
                        care of what's coming to me. I'd be quite sure that Mr.
                        Pickering hadn't made away with the old gentleman's
                        boodle, or that it didn't get lost on the way from him to
                        me."
                    "The time's running now, and I'm in for the year.
                        My grandfather was a fine old gentleman, and I treated him like a dog.
                        I'm going to do what he directs in that will no matter what the
                        size of the reward may be."
                    "Certainly; that's the eminently proper thing for you to
                        do. But,but keep your wits about you. If a fellow with that neck
                        can't find money where money has been known to exist, it must be
                        buried pretty deep. Your grandfather was a trifie eccentric, I judge, but
                        not a fool by any manner of means. The situation appeals to my imagination,
                        Jack. I like the idea of it, the lost treasure and the whole business. Lord,
                        what a salad that is! Cheer up, comrade! You're as grim as an
                        owl!"
                    Whereupon we fell to talking of people and places we had known in other
                        lands.
                    We spent the next day together, and in the evening,  my hotel, he criticized my effects while I packed, in his usual
                        ironical vein.
                    "You're not going to take those things with you, I
                        hope!" He indicated the rifles and several revolvers which I
                        brought from the closet and threw upon the bed. "They make me
                        homesick for the jungle."
                    He drew from its cover the heavy rifle I had used last on a leopard hunt and
                        tested its weight.
                    "Precious little use you'll have for this! Better let me
                        take it back to The Sod to use on the landlords. I say, Jack, are we never
                        to seek our fortunes together again? We hit it off pretty well, old man,
                        come to think of it,I don't like to lose you."
                    He bent over the straps of the rifle-case with unnecessary care, but there
                        was a quaver in his voice that was not like Larry Donovan.
                    "Come with me now!" I exclaimed, wheeling upon him.
                    "I'd rather be with you than with any other living man,
                        Jack Glenarm, but I can't think of it. I have my own troubles; and,
                        moreover, you've got to stick it out there alone. It's
                        part of the game the old gentleman set up for you, as I understand it. Go
                        ahead, collect your fortune, and then, if I haven't been hanged in
                        the meantime, we'll join forces later. There's no chap
                        anywhere  with a pleasanter knack at spending
                        money than your old friend L. D."
                    He grinned, and I smiled ruefully, knowing that we must soon part again, for
                        Larry was one of the few men I had ever called friend, and this meeting had
                        only quickened my old affection for him.
                    "I suppose," he continued, "you accept as gospel
                        truth what that fellow tells you about the estate. I should be a little wary
                        if I were you. Now, I've been kicking around here for a couple of
                        weeks, dodging the detectives, and incidentally reading the newspapers.
                        Perhaps you don't understand that this estate of John Marshall
                        Glenarm has been talked about a good bit."
                    "I didn't know it," I admitted lamely. Larry had
                        always been able to instruct me about most matters; it was wholly possible
                        that he could speak wisely about my inheritance.
                    "You couldn't know, when you were coming from the
                        Mediterranean on a steamer. But the house out there and the mysterious
                        disappearance of the property have been duly discussed. You're
                        evidently an object of some public interest,"and he drew from his
                        pocket a newspaper cutting. "Here's a sample
                        item." He read: 
                            John Glenarm, the grandson of John Marshall Glenarm, the eccentric
                                millionaire who died suddenly in Vermont last summer, arrived on the
                                Maxinkuckee from Napies  yesterday.
                                Under the terms of his grandfather's will, Glenarm is
                                required to reside for a year at a curious house established by John
                                Marshall Glenarm near Lake Annandale, Indiana.
                            This provision was made, according to friends of the family, to test
                                young Glenarm's staying qualities, as he has, since his
                                graduation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology five years
                                ago, distributed a considerable fortune left him by his father in
                                contemplating the wonders of the old world. It is
                            reported"
                        
                    
                    "That will do! Signs and wonders I have certainly beheld, and if I
                        spent the money I submit that I got my money back."
                    I paid my bill and took a hansom for the ferry,Larry with me, chaffing away
                        drolly with his old zest. He crossed with me, and as the boat drew out into
                        the river a silence fell upon us,the silence that is possible only between
                        old friends. As I looked back at the lights of the city, something beyond
                        the sorrow at parting from a comrade touched me. A sense of foreboding, of
                        coming danger, crept into my heart. But I was going upon the tamest possible
                        excursion; for the first time in my life I was submitting to the direction
                        of another, albeit one who lay in the grave. How like my grandfather it was,
                        to die leaving this compulsion upon me! My mood changed suddenly, and as the
                        boat bumped at the pier I laughed.
                    
                    "Bah! these men!" ejaculated Larry.
                    "What men?" I demanded, giving my bags to a porter.
                    "These men who are in love," he said. "I know the
                        signs,mooning, silence, sudden inexplicable laughter! I hope I'll
                        not be in jail when you're married."
                    "You'll be in a long time if they hold you for that.
                        Here's my train."
                    We talked of old times, and of future meetings, during the few minutes that
                        remained.
                    "You can write me at my place of rustication," I said,
                        scribbling "Annandale, Wabana County, Indiana," on a card.
                        "Now if you need me at any time I'll come to you wherever
                        you are. You understand that, old man. Good-by."
                    "Write me, care of my fatherhe'll have my address, though
                        this last row of mine made him pretty hot."
                    I passed through the gate and down the long train to my sleeper. Turning,
                        with my foot on the step, I waved a farewell to Larry, who stood outside
                        watching me.
                    In a moment the heavy train was moving slowly out into the night upon its
                        westward journey.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    THE HOUSE OF A THOUSAND CANDLES
                    Annandale derives its chief importance from the fact that two railway lines
                        intersect there. The Chicago Express paused only for a moment while the
                        porter deposited my things beside me on the platform. Light streamed from
                        the open door of the station; a few idlers paced the platform, staring into
                        the windows of the cars; the village hackman languidly solicited my
                        business. Suddenly out of the shadows came a tall, curious figure of a man
                        clad in a long ulster. As I write, it is with a quickening of the sensation
                        I received on the occasion of my first meeting with Bates. His lank gloomy
                        figure rises before me now, and I hear his deep melancholy voice, as,
                        touching his hat respect fully, he said:
                    "Beg pardon, sir; is this Mr. Glenarm? I am Bates from Glenarm
                        House. Mr. Pickering wired me to meet you, sir."
                    "Yes; to be sure," I said.
                    The hackman was already gathering up my traps, and I gave him my
                        trunk-checks.
                    
                    "How far is it?" I asked, my eyes resting, a little
                        regretfully, I must confess, on the rear lights of the vanishing train.
                    "Two miles, sir," Bates replied. "There's
                        no way over but the hack in winter. In summer the steamer comes right into
                        our dock."
                    "My legs need stretching; I'll walk," I suggested,
                        drawing the cool air into my lungs. It was a still, starry October night,
                        and its freshness was grateful after the hot sleeper. Bates accepted the
                        suggestion without comment. We walked to the end of the platform, where the
                        hackman was already tumbling my trunks about, and after we had seen them
                        piled upon his nondescript wagon, I followed Bates down through the broad
                        quiet street of the village. There was more of Annandale than I had
                        imagined, and several tall smoke-stacks loomed here and there in the thin
                        starlight.
                    "Brick-yards, sir," said Bates, waving his hand at the
                        stacks. "It's a considerable center for that kind of
                        business."
                    "Bricks without straw?" I asked, as we passed a radiant
                        saloon that blazed upon the board walk.
                    "Beg pardon, sir, but such places are the ruin of men,"on
                        which remark I based a mental note that Bates wished to impress me with his
                        own rectitude.
                    He swung along beside me, answering questions with  dogged brevity. Clearly, here was a man who had reduced human
                        intercourse to a basis of necessity. I was to be shut up with him for a
                        year, and he was not likely to prove a cheerful jailer. My feet struck upon
                        a graveled highway at the end of the village street, and I heard suddenly
                        the lapping of water.
                    "It's the lake, sir. This road leads right out to the
                        house," Bates explained.
                    I was doomed to meditate pretty steadily, I imagined, on the beauty of the
                        landscape in these parts, and I was rejoiced to know that it was not all
                        cheerless prairie or gloomy woodland. The wind fresheneo end blew sharply
                        upon us off the water.
                    "The fishing's quite good in season. Mr. Glenarm used to
                        take great pleasure in it. Bass,yes, sir. Mr. Glenarm held there was nothing
                        quite equal to a black bass."
                    I liked the way the fellow spoke of my grandfather. He was evidently a loyal
                        retainer. No doubt he could summon from the past many pictures of my
                        grandfather, and I determined to encourage his confidence.
                    Any resentment I felt on first hearing the terms of my grandfather's
                        will had passed. He had treated me as well as I deserved, and the least I
                        could do was to accept the penalty he had laid upon me in a sane and amiable
                        spirit. This train of thought occupied me as 
                        we tramped along the highway. The road now led away from the lake and
                        through a heavy wood. Presently, on the right loomed a dark barrier, and I
                        put out my hand and touched a wall of rough stone that rose to a height of
                        about eight feet.
                    "What is this, Bates?" I asked.
                    "This is Glenarm land, sir. The wall was one of your
                        grandfather's ideas. It's a quarter of a mile long and
                        cost him a pretty penny, I warrant you. The road turns off from the lake
                        now, but the Glenarm property is all lake front."
                    So there was a wall about my prison house! I grinned cheerfully to myself.
                        When, a few moments later, my guide paused at an arched gateway in the long
                        wall, drew from his overcoat a bunch of keys and fumbled at the lock of an
                        iron gate, I felt the spirit of adventure quicken within me.
                    The gate clicked behind us and Bates found a lantern and lighted it with the
                        ease of custom.
                    "I use this gate because it's nearer. The regular entrance
                        is farther down the road. Keep close, sir, as the timber isn't much
                        cleared."
                    The undergrowth was indeed heavy, and I followed the lantern of my guide with
                        difficulty. In the darkness the place seemed as wild and rough as a tropical
                        wilderness.
                    
                    "Only a little farther," rose Bates' voice ahead
                        of me; and then: "There's the light, sir,"and,
                        lifting my eyes, as I stumbled over the roots of a great tree, I saw for the
                        first time the dark outlines of Glenarm House.
                    "Here we are, sir!" exclaimed Bates, stamping his feet upon
                        a walk. I followed him to what I assumed to be the front door of the house,
                        where a lamp shone brightly at either side of a massive entrance. Bates
                        flung it open without ado, and I stepped quickly into a great hall that was
                        lighted dimly by candles fastened into brackets on the walls.
                    "I hope you've not expected too much, Mr.
                        Glenarm," said Bates, with a tone of mild apology.
                        "It's very incomplete for living purposes."
                    "Well, we've got to make the best of it," I
                        answered, though without much cheer. The sound of our steps reverberated and
                        echoed in the well of a great staircase. There was not, as far as I could
                        see, a single article of furniture in the place.
                    "Here's something you'll like better,
                        sir,"and Bates paused far down the hall and opened a door.
                    A single candle made a little pool of light in what I felt, to be a large
                        room. I was prepared for a disclosure of barren ugliness, and waited, in
                        heartsick foreboding, for the silent guide to reveal a dreary prison.
                    
                    "Please sit here, sir," said Bates, "while I make
                        a better light."
                    He moved through the dark room with perfect ease, struck a match, lighted a
                        taper and went swiftly and softly about. He touched the taper to one candle
                        after another,they seemed to be everywhere,and won from the dark a faint
                        twilight, that yielded slowly to a growing mellow splendor of light. I have
                        often watched the acolytes in dim cathedrals of the Old World set countless
                        candles ablaze on magnificent altars,always with awe for the beauty of the
                        spectacle; but in this unknown house the austere serving-man summoned from
                        the shadows a lovelier and more bewildering enchantment. Youth alone, of
                        beautiful things, is lovelier than light.
                    The lines of the walls receded as the light increased, and the raftered
                        ceiling drew away, luring the eyes upward. I rose with a smothered
                        exclamation on my lips and stared about, snatching off my hat in reverence
                        as the spirit of the place wove its spell about me. Everywhere there were
                        books; they covered the walls to the ceiling, with only long French windows
                        and an enormous fireplace breaking the line. Above the fireplace a massive
                        dark oak chimney-breast further emphasized the grand scale of the room. From
                        every conceivable placefrom shelves built for the purpose, from brackets  that thrust out long arms among the books,
                        from a great crystal chandelier suspended from the ceiling, and from the
                        breast of the chimneyinnumerable candles blazed with dazzling brilliancy. I
                        exclaimed in wonder and pleasure as Bates paused, his sorcerer's
                        wand in hand.
                    "Mr. Glenarm was very fond of candle-light; he liked to gather up
                        candlesticks, and his collection is very fine. He called his place
                        'The House of a Thousand Candles.' There's only
                        about a hundred here; but it was one of his conceits that when the house was
                        finished there would be a thousand lights. He had quite a joking way, your
                        grandfather. It suited his humor to call it a thousand. He enjoyed his own
                        pleasantries, sir."
                    "I fancy he did," I replied, staring in bewilderment.
                    "Oil lamps might be more suited to your own taste, sir. But your
                        grandfather would not have them. Old brass and copper were specialties with
                        him, and he had a particular taste, Mr. Glenarm had, in glass candlesticks.
                        He held that the crystal was most effective of all. I'll go and let
                        in the baggageman and then serve you some supper."
                    He went somberly out and I examined the room with amazed and delighted eyes.
                        It was fifty feet long and half as wide. The hard-wood floor was covered
                        with  handsome rugs; every piece of furniture
                        was quaint or interesting. Carved in the heavy oak paneling above the
                        fireplace, in large Old English letters, was the inscription: 
                            
                                The Spirit of Man is the Candle of the Lord
                            
                         and on either side great candelabra sent long arms across the hearth.
                        All the books seemed related to architecture; German and French works stood
                        side by side among those by English and American authorities. I found
                        archology represented in a division where all the titles were Latin or
                        Italian. I opened several cabinets that contained sketches and drawings, all
                        in careful order; and in another I found an elaborate card catalogue,
                        evidently the work of a practised hand. The minute examination was too much
                        for me; I threw myself into a great chair that might have been spoil from a
                        cathedral, satisfied to enjoy the general effect. To find an apartment so
                        handsome and so marked by good taste in the midst of an Indiana wood,
                        staggered me. To be sure, in approaching the house I had seen only a dark
                        bulk that conveyed no sense of its character or proportions; and certainly
                        the entrance hall had not prepared me for the beauty of this room. I was so
                        lost in contemplation that I did not hear a door open  behind me. The respectful, mournful voice of Bates announced:
                    "There's a bite ready for you, sir."
                    I followed him through the hall to a small highwainscoted room where a table
                        was simply set.
                    "This is what Mr. Glenarm called the refectory. The dining-room, on
                        the other side of the house, is unfinished. He took his own meals here. The
                        library was the main thing with him. He never lived to finish the house,
                        more's the pity, sir. He would have made something very handsome of
                        it if he'd had a few years more. But he hoped, sir, that
                        you'd see it completed. It was his wish, sir."
                    "Yes, to be sure," I replied.
                    He brought cold fowl and a salad, and produced a bit of Stilton of
                        unmistakable authenticity.
                    "I trust the ale is cooled to your liking. It's your
                        grandfather's favorite, if I may say it, sir."
                    I liked the fellow's humility. He served me with a grave deference
                        and an accustomed hand. Candles in crystal holders shed an agreeable light
                        upon the table; the room was snug and comfortable, and hickory logs in a
                        small fireplace crackled cheerily. If my grandfather had designed to punish
                        me, with loneliness as his weapon, his shade, if it lurked near, must have
                        been grievously disappointed. I had long been inured  to my own society. I had often eaten my bread alone, and I
                        found a pleasure in the quiet of the strange unknown house. There stole over
                        me, too, the satisfaction that I was at last obeying a wish of my
                        grandfather's, that I was doing something he would have me do. I
                        was touched by the traces everywhere of his interest in what was to him the
                        art of arts; there was something quite fine in his devotion to it. The
                        little refectory had its air of distinction, though it was without
                        decoration. There had been, we always said in the family, something
                        whimsical or even morbid in my grandsire's devotion to
                        architecture; but I felt that it had really appealed to something dignified
                        and noble in his own mind and character, and a gentler mood than I had known
                        in years possessed my heart. He had asked little of me, and I determined
                        that in that little I would not fail.
                    Bates gave me my coffee, put matches within reach and left the room. I drew
                        out my cigarette case and was holding it half-opened, when the glass in the
                        window back of me cracked sharply, a bullet whistled over my head, struck
                        the opposite wall and fell, flattened and marred, on the table under my
                        hand.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    A VOICE FROM THE LAKE
                    I ran to the window and peered out into the night. The wood through which we
                        had approached the house seemed to encompass it. The branches of a great
                        tree brushed the panes. I was tugging at the fastening of the window when I
                        became aware of Bates at my elbow.
                    "Did something happen, sir?"
                    His unbroken calm angered me. Some one had fired at me through a window and I
                        had narrowly escaped being shot. I resented the unconcern with which this
                        servant accepted the situation.
                    "Nothing worth mentioning. Somebody tried to assassinate me,
                        that's all," I said, in a voice that failed to be calmly
                        ironical. I was still fumbling at the catch of the window.
                    "Allow me, sir,"and he threw up the sash with an ease that
                        increased my irritation.
                    I leaned out and tried to find some clue to my assailant. Bates opened
                        another window and surveyed the dark landscape with me.
                    
                    "It was a shot from without, was it, sir?"
                    "Of course it was; you didn't suppose I shot at myself, did
                        you?"
                    He examined the broken pane and picked up the bullet from the table.
                    "It's a rifle-ball, I should say."
                    The bullet was half-flattened by its contact with the wall. It was a
                        cartridge ball of large caliber and might have been fired from either rifle
                        or pistol.
                    "It's very unusual, sir!" I wheeled upon him
                        angrily and found him fumbling with the bit of metal, a troubled look in his
                        face. He at once continued, as though anxious to allay my fears.
                        "Quite accidental, most likely. Probably boys on the lake are
                        shooting at ducks."
                    I laughed out so suddenly that Bates started back in alarm.
                    "You idiot!" I roared, seizing him by the collar with both
                        hands and shaking him fiercely. "You fool! Do the people around
                        here shoot ducks at night? Do they shoot water-fowl with elephant guns and
                        fire at people through windows just for fun?"
                    I threw him back against the table so that it leaped away from him, and he
                        fell prone on the floor.
                    "Get up!" I commanded, "and fetch a
                        lantern."
                    He said nothing, but did as I bade him. We traversed  the long cheerless hall to the front door, and I sent him
                        before me into the woodland. My notions of the geography of the region were
                        the vaguest, but I wished to examine for myself the premises that evidently
                        contained a dangerous prowler. I was very angry and my rage increased as I
                        followed Bates, who had suddenly retired within himself. We stood soon
                        beneath the lights of the refectory window.
                    The ground was covered with leaves which broke crisply under our feet.
                    "What lies beyond here?" I demanded.
                    "About a quarter of mile of woods, sir, and then the lake."
                    "Go ahead," I ordered, "straight to the
                        lake."
                    I was soon stumbling through rough underbrush similar to that through which
                        we had approached the house. Bates swung along confidently enough ahead of
                        me. pausing occasionally to hold back the branches. I began to feel, as my
                        rage abated, that I had set out on a foolish undertaking. I was utterly at
                        sea as to the character of the grounds; I was following a man whom I had not
                        seen until two hours before, and whom I began to suspect of all manner of
                        designs upon me. It was wholly unlikely that the person who had fired into
                        the windows would lurk about, and, moreover, the light of the lantern, the
                        crack of the leaves and the breaking of the 
                        boughs advertised our approach loudly. I am, however, a person given to
                        steadfastness in error, if nothing else, and I plunged along behind my guide
                        with a grim determination to reach the margin of the lake, if for no other
                        reason than to exercise my authority over the custodian of this strange
                        estate.
                    "A bush slapped me sharply and I stopped to rub the sting from my
                        face.
                    "Are you hurt, sir?" asked Bates solicitously, turning with
                        the lantern.
                    "Of course not," I snapped. "I'm having
                        the time of my life. Are there no paths in this jungle?"
                    "Not through here, sir. It was Mr. Glenarm's idea not to
                        disturb the wood at all. He was very fond of walking through the
                        timber."
                    "Not at night, I hope! Where are we now?"
                    "Quite near the lake, sir."
                    "Then go on."
                    I was out of patience with Bates, with the pathless woodland, and, I must
                        confess, with the spirit of John Marshall Glenarm, my grandfather.
                    We came out presently upon a gravelly beach, and Bates stamped suddenly on
                        planking.
                    "This is the Glenarm dock, sir; and that's the
                        boathouse."
                    
                    He waved his lantern toward a low structure that rose dark beside us. As we
                        stood silent, peering out into the starlight, I heard distinctly the dip of
                        a paddle and the soft gliding motion of a canoe.
                    "It's a boat, sir," whispered Bates, hiding the
                        lantern under his coat.
                    I brushed past him and crept to the end of the dock. The paddle dipped on
                        silently and evenly in the still water, but the sound grew fainter. A canoe
                        is the most graceful, the most sensitive, the most inexplicable contrivance
                        of man. With its paddle you may dip up stars along quiet shores or steal
                        into the very harbor of dreams. I knew that furtive splash instantly, and
                        knew that a trained hand wielded the paddle. My boyhood summers in the Maine
                        woods were not, I frequently find, wholly wasted.
                    The owner of the canoe had evidently stolen close to the Glenarm dock, and
                        had made off when alarmed by the noise of our approach through the wood.
                    "Have you a boat here?"
                    "The boat-house is locked and I haven't the key with me,
                        sir," he replied without excitement.
                    "Of course you haven't it," I snapped, full of
                        anger at his tone of irreproachable respect, and at my own helplessness. I
                        had not even seen the place by daylight,  and
                        the woodland behind me and the lake at my feet were things of shadow and
                        mystery. In my rage I stamped my foot.
                    "Lead the way back," I roared.
                    I had turned toward the woodland when suddenly there stole across the water a
                        voice,a woman's voice, deep, musical and deliberate.
                    "Really, I shouldn't be so angry if I were you!"
                        it said, with a lingering note on the word angry.
                    "Who are you? What are you doing there?" I bawled.
                        "Just enjoying a little tranquil thought!" was the
                        drawling, mocking reply.
                    Far out upon the water I heard the dip and glide of the canoe, and saw
                        faintly its outline for a moment; then it was gone. The lake, the
                        surrounding wood, were an unknown world,the canoe, a boat of dreams. Then
                        again came the voice:
                    "Good night, merry gentlemen!"
                    "It was a lady, sir," remarked Bates, after we had waited
                        silently for a full minute.
                    "How clever you are!" I sneered. "I suppose ladies
                        prowl about here at night, shooting ducks or into people's
                        houses."
                    "It would seem quite likely, sir."
                    I should have liked to cast him into the lake, but he was already moving
                        away, the lantern swinging at his  side. I
                        followed him, back through the woodland to the house.
                    My spirits quickly responded to the cheering influence of the great library.
                        I stirred the fire on the hearth into life and sat down before it, tired
                        from my tramp. I was mystified and perplexed by the incident that had
                        already marked my coming. It was possible, to be sure, that the bullet which
                        narrowly missed my head in the little dining-room had been a wild shot that
                        carried no evil intent. I dismissed at once the idea that it might have been
                        fired from the lake; it had crashed through the glass with too much force to
                        have come so far; and, moreover, I could hardly imagine even a
                        rifleball's finding an unimpeded right of way through so dense a
                        strip of wood. I found it difficult to get rid of the idea that some one had
                        taken a pot-shot at me.
                    The woman's mocking voice from the lake added to my perplexity. It
                        was not, I reflected, such a voice as one might expect to hear from a
                        country girl; nor could I imagine any errand that would excuse a
                        woman's presence abroad on an October night whose cool air inspired
                        first confidences with fire and lamp. There was something haunting in that
                        last cry across the water; it kept repeating itself over and over in my
                        ears. It was a voice of quality, of breeding and charm,
                    "Good night, merry gentlemen!"
                    
                    In Indiana, I reflected, rustics, young or old, men or women, were probably
                        not greatly given to salutations of just this temper.
                    Bates now appeared.
                    "Beg pardon, sir; but your room's ready whenever you wish
                        to retire."
                    I looked about in search of a clock.
                    "There are no timepieces in the house, Mr. Glenarm.
                    Your grandfather was quite opposed to them. He had a theory, sir, that they
                        were conducive, as he said, to idleness. He considered that a man should
                        work by his conscience, sir, and not by the clock,the one being more
                        exacting than the other."
                    I smiled as I drew out my watch,as much at Bates' solemn tones and
                        grim lean visage as at his quotation from my grandsire. But the fellow
                        puzzled and annoyed me. His unobtrusive black clothes, his smoothly brushed
                        hair, his shaven face, awakened an antagonism in me.
                    "Bates, if you didn't fire that shot through the window,
                        who didwill you answer me that?"
                    "Yes, sir; if I didn't do it, it's quite a large
                        question who did. I'll grant you that, sir."
                    I stared at him. He met my gaze directly without flinching; nor was there
                        anything insolent in his tone or attitude. He continued:
                    
                    "I didn't do it, sir. I was in the pantry when I heard the
                        crash in the refectory window. The bullet came from out of doors, as I
                        should judge, sir."
                    The facts and conclusions were undoubtedly with Bates, and I felt that I had
                        not acquitted myself creditably in my effort to fix the crime on him. My
                        abuse of him had been tactless, to say the least, and I now tried another
                        line of attack.
                    "Of course, Bates, I was merely joking. What's your own
                        theory of the matter?"
                    "I have no theory, sir. Mr. Glenarm always warned me against
                        theories. He saidif you will pardon methere was great danger in the
                        speculative mind."
                    The man spoke with a slight Irish accent, which in itself puzzled me. I have
                        always been attentive to the peculiarities of speech, and his was not the
                        brogue of the Irish servant class. Larry Donovan, who was English-born, used
                        on occasions an exaggerated Irish dialect that was wholly different from the
                        smooth liquid tones of Bates. But more things than his speech were to puzzle
                        me in this man.
                    "The person in the canoe? How do you account for her?" I
                        asked
                    "I haven't accounted for her, sir. There's no
                        women on these grounds, or any sort of person except ourselves."
                    
                    "But there are neighbors,farmers, people of some kind must live
                        along the lake."
                    "A few, sir; and then there's the school quite a bit beyond
                        your own west wall."
                    His slight reference to my proprietorship, my own wall, as he put it, pleased
                        me.
                    "Oh, yes; there is a schoolgirls?yes; Mr. Pickering mentioned it.
                        But the girls hardly paddle on the lake at night, at this seasonhunting
                        ducksshould you say, Bates?"
                    "I don't believe they do any shooting, Mr. Glenarm.
                        It's a pretty strict school, I judge, sir, from all
                        accounts."
                    "And the teachersthey are all women?"
                    "They're the Sisters of St. Agatha, I believe they call
                        them. I sometimes see them walking abroad. They're very quiet
                        neighbors, and they go away in the summer usually, except Sister Theresa.
                        The school's her regular home, sir. And there's the little
                        chapel quite near the wall; the young minister lives there; and the
                        gardener's the only other man on the grounds."
                    So my immediate neighbors were Protestant nuns and school-girls, with a
                        chaplain and gardener thrown in for variety. Still, the chaplain might be a
                        social resource. There was nothing in the terms of my granfather's
                        will to prevent my cultivating the acquaintance  of a clergyman. It even occurred to me that this might be a part of the
                        game: my soul was to be watched over by a rural priest, while, there being
                        nothing else to do, I was to give my attention to the study of architecture.
                        Bates, my guard and housekeeper, was brushing the hearth with deliberate
                        care.
                    "Show me my cell," I said, rising, "and
                        I'll go to bed."
                    He brought from somewhere a great brass candelabrum that held a dozen lights,
                        and explained:
                    "This was Mr. Glenarm's habit. He always used this one to
                        go to bed with. I'm sure he'd wish you to have it,
                        sir."
                    I thought I detected something like a quaver in the man's voice. My
                        grandfather's memory was dear to him. I reflected, and I was moved
                        to compassion for him.
                    "How long were you with Mr. Glenarm, Bates?" I inquired, as
                        I followed him into the hall.
                    "Five years, sir. He employed me the year you went abroad. I
                        remember very well his speaking of it. He greatly admired you,
                        sir."
                    He led the way, holding the cluster of lights high for my guidance up the
                        broad stairway.
                    The hall above shared the generous lines of the whole house, but the walls
                        were white and hard to the eye. Rough planks had been laid down for a floor,
                        and beyond  the light of the candles lay a dark
                        region that gave out ghostly echoes as the loose boards rattled under our
                        feet.
                    "I hope you'll not be too much disappointed, sir,"
                        said Bates, pausing a moment before opening a door. "It's
                        all quite unfinished, but comfortable, I should say, quite
                        comfortable."
                    "Open the door!"
                    He was not my host and I did not relish his apology. I walked past him into a
                        small sitting-room that was, in a way, a miniature of the great library
                        below. Open shelves filled with books lined the apartment to the ceiling on
                        every hand, save where a small fireplace, a cabinet and table were built
                        into the walls. In the center of the room was a long table with writing
                        materials set in nice order. I opened a handsome case and found that it
                        contained a set of draftsman's instruments.
                    I groaned aloud.
                    "Mr. Glenarm preferred this room for working. The tools were his
                        very own, sir."
                    "The devil they were!" I exclaimed irascibly. I snatched a
                        book from the nearest shelf and threw it open on the table. It was The Tower: Its Early Use for Purposes of Defense. London:
                        1816.
                    
                    
                    I closed it with a slam.
                    "The sleeping-room is beyond, sir. I hope"
                    "Don't you hope any more!" I growled;
                        "and it doesn't make any difference whether I'm
                        disappointed or not."
                    "Certainly not, sir!" he replied in a tone that made me
                        ashamed of myself.
                    The adjoining bedroom was small and meagerly furnished. The walls were
                        untinted and were relieved only by prints of English cathedrals, French
                        chteaux, and like suggestions of the best things known to architecture. The
                        bed was the commonest iron type; and the other articles of furniture were
                        chosen with a strict regard for utility. My trunks and bags had been carried
                        in, and Bates asked from the door for my commands.
                    "Mr. Glenarm always breakfasted at seven-thirty, sir, us near as he
                        could hit it without a timepiece, and he, was quite punctual. His ways were
                        a little odd, sir. He used to prowl about at night a good deal, and there
                        was no following him."
                    "I fancy I shan't do much prowling," I declared
                        "And my grandfather's breakfast hour will suit me exactly,
                        Bates."
                    "If there's nothing further, sir."
                    "That's all;and Bates"
                    
                    "Yes, Mr. Glenarm."
                    "Of course you understand that I didn't really mean to
                        imply that you had fired that shot at me?"
                    "I beg you not to mention it, Mr. Glenarm."
                    "But it was a little queer. If you should gain any
                        light on the subject, let me know."
                    "Certainly, sir."
                    "But I believe, Bates, that we'd better keep the shades
                        down at night. These duck hunters hereabouts are apparently reckless. And
                        you might attend to these now, and every evening hereafter."
                    I wound my watch as he obeyed. I admit that in my heart I still
                        half-suspected the fellow of complicity with the person who had fired at me
                        through the dining-room window. It was rather odd, I reflected, that the
                        shades should have been open, though I might account for this by the fact
                        that this curious unfinished establishment was not subject to the usual laws
                        governing orderly housekeeping. Bates was evidently aware of my suspicions,
                        and he remarked, drawing down the last of the plain green shades:
                    "Mr. Glenarm never drew them, sir. It was a saying of his, if I may
                        repeat his words, that he liked the open. These are eastern windows, and he
                        took a quiet pleasure in letting the light waken him. It was one of his
                        oddities, sir."
                    
                    "To be sure. That's all, Bates."
                    He gravely bade me good night, and I followed him to the outer door and
                        watched his departing figure, lighted by a single candle that he had
                        produced from his pocket.
                    I stood for several minutes listening to his step, tracing it through the
                        hall belowas far as my knowledge of the house would permit. Then, in unknown
                        regions, I could hear the closing of doors and drawing of bolts. Verily, my
                        jailer was a person of painstaking habits.
                    I opened my traveling-case and distributed its contents on the
                        dressing-table. I had carried through all my adventures a folding leather
                        photograph-holder, containing portraits of my father and mother and of John
                        Marshall Glenarm, my grandfather, and this I set up on the mantel in the
                        little sitting-room. I felt to-night as never before how alone I was in the
                        world, and a need for companionship and sympathy stirred in me. It was with
                        a new and curious interest that I peered into my grandfather's
                        shrewd old eyes. He used to come and go fitfully at my father's
                        house; but my father had displeased him in various ways that I need not
                        recite, and my father's death had left me with an estrangement
                        which I had widened by my own acts.
                    Now that I had reached Glenarm, my mind reverted to Pickering's
                        estimate of the value of my grandfather's  estate. Although John Marshall Glenarm was an eccentric man, he
                        had been able to accumulate a large fortune; and yet I had allowed the
                        executor to tell me that he had died comparatively poor. In so readily
                        accepting the terms of the will and burying myself in a region of which I
                        knew nothing, I had cut myself off from the usual channels of counsel. If I
                        left the place to return to New York I should simply disinherit myself. At
                        Glenarm I was, and there I must remain to the end of the year; I grew bitter
                        against Pickering as I reflected upon the ease with which he had got rid of
                        me. I had always satisfied myself that my wits were as keen as his, but I
                        wondered now whether I had not stupidly put my-self in his power.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    A RED TAM-O'-SHANTER
                    I looked out on the bright October morning with a renewed sense of isolation.
                        Trees crowded about my windows, many of them still wearing their festal
                        colors, scarlet and brown and gold, with the bright green of some sulking
                        companion standing out here and there with startling vividness. I put on an
                        old corduroy outing suit and heavy shoes, ready for a tramp abroad, and went
                        below.
                    The great library seemed larger than ever when I beheld it in the morning
                        light. I opened one of the French windows and stepped out on a stone
                        terrace, where I gained a fair view of the exterior of the house, which
                        proved to be a modified Tudor, with battlements and two towers. One of the
                        latter was only half-finished, and to it and to other parts of the house the
                        workmen's scaffolding still clung. Heaps of stone and piles of
                        lumber were scattered about in great disorder. The house extended partly
                        along the edge of a ravine, through which a slender creek ran toward the
                        lake. The terrace became a broad balcony immediately outside the library,
                             and beneath it the water bubbled
                        pleasantly around heavy stone pillars. Two pretty rustic bridges spanned the
                        ravine, one near the front entrance, the other at the rear. My grandfather
                        had begun his house on a generous plan, but, buried as it was among the
                        trees, it suffered from lack of perspective. However, on one side toward the
                        lake was a fair meadow, broken by a water-tower, and just beyond the west
                        dividing wall I saw a little chapel; and still farther, in the same
                        direction, the outlines of the buildings of St. Agatha's were
                        vaguely perceptible in another strip of woodland.
                    The thought of gentle nuns and school-girls as neighbors amused me. All I
                        asked was that they should keep to their own side of the wall.
                    I heard behind me the careful step of Bates.
                    "Good morning, Mr. Glenarm. I trust you rested quite well,
                        sir."
                    His figure was as austere, his tone as respectful and colorless as by night.
                        The morning light gave him a pallid cast. He suffered my examination coolly
                        enough; his eyes were, indeed, the best thing about him.
                    "This is what Mr. Glenarm called the platform. I believe
                        it's in Hamlet, sir."
                    I laughed aloud. "Elsinore: A Platform Before the
                            Castle."
                    
                    "It was one of Mr. Glenarm's little fancies, you might call
                        it, sir."
                    "And the ghost,where does the murdered majesty of Denmark lie by
                        day?"
                    "I fear it wasn't provided, sir! As you see, Mr. Glenarm,
                        the house is quite incomplete. My late master had not carried out all his
                        plans."
                    Bates did not smile. I fancied he never smiled, and I wondered whether John
                        Marshall Glenarm had played upon the man's lack of humor. My
                        grandfather had been possessed of a certain grim, ironical gift at jesting,
                        and quite likely he had amused himself by experimenting upon his serving
                        man.
                    "You may breakfast when you like, sir,"and thus admonished
                        I went into the refectory.
                    A newspaper lay at my plate; it was the morning's issue of a Chicago
                        daily. I was, then, not wholly out of the world, I reflected, scanning the
                        head-lines.
                    "Your grandfather rarely examined the paper. Mr. Glenarm was more
                        particularly interested in the old times. He wasn't what you might
                        call up to date,if you will pardon the expression, sir."
                    "You are quite right about that, Bates. He was a medievalist in his
                        sympathies."
                    "Thank you for that word, sir; I've frequently heard  him apply it to himself. The plain omelette
                        was a great favorite with your grandfather. I hope it is to your liking,
                        sir."
                    "It's excellent, Bates. And your coffee is beyond
                        praise."
                    "Thank you, Mr. Glenarm. One does what one can, sir."
                    He had placed me so that I faced the windows, an attention to my comfort and
                        safety which I appreciated. The broken pane told the tale of the shot that
                        had so narrowly missed me the night before.
                    "I'll repair that to-day, sir," Bates remarked,
                        seeing my eyes upon the window.
                    "You know that I'm to spend a year on this place; I assume
                        that you understand the circumstances," I aid, feeling it wise that
                        we should understand each other.
                    "Quite so, Mr. Glenarm."
                    "I'm a student, you know, and all I want is to be left
                        alone."
                    This I threw in to reassure myself rather than for his information. It was
                        just as well, I reflected, to assert a little authority, even though the
                        fellow undoubtedly represented Pickering and received orders him.
                    "In a day or two, or as soon as I have got used to the  place, I shall settle down to work in the
                        library. You may give me breakfast at seven-thirty; luncheon at one thirty
                        and dinner at seven."
                    "Those were my late master's hours, sir."
                    "Very good. And I'll eat anything you please, except mutton
                        broth, meat pie and canned strawberries. Strawberries in tins, Bates, are
                        not well calculated to lift the spirit of man."
                    "I quite agree with you, sir, if you will pardon my
                        opinion."
                    "And the bills"
                    "They are provided for by Mr. Pickering. He sends me an allowance
                        for the household expenses."
                    "So you are to report to him, are you, as heretofore?"
                    I blew out a match with which I had lighted a cigar and watched the smoking
                        end intently.
                    "I believe that's the idea, sir."
                    It is not pleasant to be under compulsion,to feel your freedom curtailed, to
                        be conscious of espionage. I rose without a word and went into the hall.
                    "You may like to have the keys," said Bates, following me.
                        "There's two for the gates in the outer wall and one for
                        the St. Agatha's gate; they're marked, as you see. And
                        here's the hall-door key and the boat-house key that you asked for
                        last night."
                    After an hour spent in unpacking I went out into the  grounds. I had thought it well to wire Pickering my arrival,
                        and I set out for Annandale to send him a telegram. My spirit lightened
                        under the influences the crisp air and cheering sunshine. What had seemed
                        strange and shadowy at night was clear enough by day.
                    I found the gate through which we had entered the grounds the night before
                        without difficulty. The stone wall was assuredly no flimsy thing. It was
                        built in a thoroughly workmanlike manner, and I mentally computed its
                        probable cost with amazement. There were, I reflected, much more
                        satisfactory ways of spending money than in building walls around Indiana
                        forests. But the place was mine, or as good as mine, and there was no manner
                        of use in quarreling with the whims of my dead grandfather. At the
                        expiration of a year I could tear down the wall if I pleased; and as to the
                        incomplete house, that I should sell or remodel to my liking.
                    On the whole, I settled into an amiable state of mind; my perplexity over the
                        shot of the night before was passing away under the benign influences of
                        blue sky warm sunshine. A few farm-folk passed me in the highway and gave me
                        good morning in the fashion of the country, inspecting my knickerbockers at
                        the same  time with frank disapproval. I
                        reached the lake and gazed out upon its quiet waters with satisfaction. At
                        the foot of Annandale's main street was a dock where several small
                        steam-craft and a number of catboats were being dismantled for the winter.
                        As I passed, a man approached the dock in a skiff, landed and tied his boat.
                        He started toward the village at a quick pace, but turned and eyed me with
                        rustic directness.
                    "Good morning!" I said. "Any ducks
                        about?"
                    He paused, nodded and fell into step with me.
                    "No,not enough to pay for the trouble."
                    "I'm sorry for that. I'd hoped to pick up a
                        few."
                    "I guess you're a stranger in these parts," he
                        remarked, eying me again,my knickerbockers no doubt marking me as an alien.
                    "Quite so. My name is Glenarm, and I've just
                        come."
                    "I thought you might be him. We've rather been expecting
                        you here in the village. I'm John Morgan, caretaker of the
                        resorters' houses up the lake."
                    "I suppose you all knew my grandfather hereabouts."
                    "Well, yes; you might say as we did, or you might say as we
                        didn't. He wasn't just the sort that you got next to in a
                        hurry. He kept pretty much to himself. He built a wall there to keep us out,
                        but he needn't have troubled himself. We're not the kind
                        around here to  meddle, and you may be sure the
                        summer people never-bothered him."
                    There was a tone of resentment in his voice, and I hastened to say:
                    "I'm sure you're mistaken about the purposes of
                        that wall. My grandfather was a student of architecture. It was a hobby of
                        his. The house and wall were in the line of his experiments, and to please
                        his whims. I hope the people of the village won't hold any hard
                        feelings against his memory or against me. Why, the labor there must have
                        been a good thing for the people hereabouts."
                    "It ought to have been," said the man gruffly;
                        "but that's where the trouble comes in. He brought a lot
                        of queer fellows here under contract to work for him,Italians, or Greeks, or
                        some sort of foreigners. They built the wall, and he had them at work inside
                        for half a year. He didn't even let them out for air; and when they
                        finished his job he loaded 'em on to a train one day and hauled
                        'em away."
                    "That was quite like him, I'm sure," I said,
                        remembering with amusement my grandfather's secretive ways.
                    "I guess he was a crank all right," said the man
                        conclusively.
                    It was evident that he did not care to establish friendly relations with the
                        resident of Glenarm. He was about  forty,
                        light, with a yellow beard and pale blue eyes. He was dressed roughly and
                        wore a shabby soft hat.
                    "Well, I suppose I'll have to assume responsibility for him
                        and his acts," I remarked, piqued by the fellow's
                        surliness.
                    We had reached the center of the village, and he left me abruptly, crossing
                        the street to one of the shops. I continued on to the railway station, where
                        I wrote and paid for my message. The station-master inspected me carefully
                        as I searched my pockets for change.
                    "You want your telegrams delivered at the house?" he asked.
                    "Yes, please," I answered, and he turned away to his desk
                        of clicking instruments without looking at me again.
                    It seemed wise to establish relations with the post-office, so I made myself
                        known to the girl who stood at the delivery window.
                    "You already have a box," she advised me.
                        "There's a boy carries the mail to your house; Mr. Bates
                        hires him."
                    Bates had himself given me this information, but the girl seemed to find
                        pleasure in imparting it with a certain severity. I then bought a cake of
                        soap at the principal drug store and purchased a package of smokingtobacco.
                        which I did not need, at a grocery.
                    
                    News of my arrival had evidently reached the villagers; I was conceited
                        enough to imagine that my presence was probably of interest to them; but the
                        station-master, the girl at the post-office and the clerks in the shops
                        treated me with an unmistakable cold reserve. There was a certain evenness
                        of the chill which they visited upon me, as though a particular degree of
                        frigidity had been determined in advance.
                    I shrugged my shoulders and turned toward Glenarm. My grandfather had left me
                        a cheerful legacy of distrust among my neighbors, the result, probably, of
                        importing foreign labor to work on his house. The surly Morgan had intimated
                        as much; but it did not greatly matter. I had not come to Glenarm to
                        cultivate the rustics, but to fulfil certain obligations laid down in my
                        grandfather's will. I was, so to speak, on duty, and I much
                        preferred that the villagers should let me alone. Comforting myself with
                        these reflections I reached the wharf, where I saw Morgan sitting with his
                        feet dangling over the water, smoking a pipe.
                    I nodded in his direction, but he feigned not to see me. A moment later he
                        jumped into his boat and rowed out into the lake.
                    When I returned to the house Bates was at work in the kitchen. This was a
                        large square room with heavy timbers showing in the walls and low ceiling.
                        There  was a great fireplace having an enormous
                        chimney and fitted with a crane and bobs, but for practical purposes a small
                        range was provided.
                    Bates received me placidly.
                    "Yes; it's an unusual kitchen, sir. Mr. Glenarm copied it
                        from an old kitchen in England. He took quite a pride in it. It's a
                        pleasant place to sit in the evening, sir."
                    He showed me the way below, where I found that the cellar extended under
                        every part of the house, and was divided into large chambers. The door of
                        one of them was of heavy oak, bound in iron, with a barred opening at the
                        top. A great iron hasp with a heavy padlock and grilled area windows gave
                        further the impression of a cell, and I fear that at this, as at many other
                        things in the curious house, I sworeif I did not laughthinking of the money
                        my grandfather had expended in realizing his whims. The room was used, I
                        noted with pleasure, as a depository for potatoes. I asked Bates whether he
                        knew my grandfather's purpose in providing a cell in his house.
                    "That, sir, was another of the dead master's ideas. He
                        remarked to me once that it was just as well to have a dungeon in a
                        well-appointed house,his humor again, sir! And it comes in quite handy for
                        the potatoes."
                    In another room I found a curious collection of lanterns  of every conceivable description, grouped on shelves, and next
                        door to this was a store-room filled with brass candlesticks of many odd
                        designs. I shall not undertake to describe my sensations as, peering about
                        with a candle in my hand, the vagaries of John Marshall Glenarm's
                        mind were further disclosed to me. It was almost beyond belief that any man
                        with such whims should ever have had the money to gratify them.
                    I returned to the main floor and studied the titles of the books in the
                        library, finally smoking a pipe over a very tedious chapter in an
                        exceedingly dull work on Norman Revivals and Influences.
                        Then I went out, assuring myself that I should get steadily to work in a day
                        or two. It was not yet eleven o'clock, and time was sure to move
                        deliberately within the stone walls of my prison. The long winter lay before
                        me in which I must study perforce, and just now it was pleasant to view the
                        landscape in all its autumn splendor.
                    Bates was soberly chopping wood at a rough pile of timber at the rear of the
                        house. His industry had already impressed me. He had the quiet ways of an
                        ideal serving man.
                    "Well, Bates, you don't intend to let me freeze to death,
                        do you? There must be enough in the pile there to last all winter."
                    "Yes, sir; I am just cutting a little more of the hickory  sir. Mr. Glenarm always preferred it to beech
                        or maple. We only take out the old timber. The summer storms eat into the
                        wood pretty bad, sir."
                    "Oh, hickory, to be sure! I've heard it's the best
                        firewood. That's very thoughtful of you."
                    I turned next to the unfinished tower in the meadow, from which a windmill
                        pumped water to the house. The iron frame was not wholly covered with stone,
                        but material for the remainder of the work lay scattered at the base. I went
                        on through the wood to the lake and inspected the boat-house. It was far
                        more pretentious than I had imagined from my visit in the dark. It was of
                        two stories, the upper half being a cozy lounging-room, with wide windows
                        and a fine outlook over the water. The unplastered walls were hung with
                        Indian blankets; lounging-chairs and a broad seat under the windows, colored
                        matting on the floor and a few prints pinned upon the Navajoes gave further
                        color to the place.
                    I followed the pebbly shore to the stone wall where it marked the line of the
                        school-grounds. The wall, I observed, was of the same solid character here
                        as along the road. I tramped beside it, reflecting that my
                        grandfather's estate, in the heart of the Republic, would some day
                        give the lie to foreign complaints that we have no ruins in America.
                    
                    I had assumed that there was no opening in the wall, but half-way to the road
                        I found an iron gate, fastened with chain and padlock, by means of which I
                        climbed to the top. The pillars at either side of the gate were of huge
                        dimensions and were higher than I could reach. An intelligent forester had
                        cleared the wood in the school-grounds, which were of the same general
                        character as the Glenarm estate. The little Gothic church near at hand was
                        built of stone similar to that used in Glenarm House. As I surveyed the
                        scene a number of young women came from one of the school-buildings and,
                        forming in twos and fours, walked back and forth in a rough path that led to
                        the chapel. A Sister clad in a brown habit lingered near or walked first
                        with one and then another of the students. It was all very pretty and
                        interesting and not at all the ugly school for paupers I had expected to
                        find. The students were not the charity children I had carelessly pictured;
                        they were not so young, for one thing, and they seemed to be appareled
                        decently enough.
                    I smiled to find myself adjusting my scarf and straightening my collar as I
                        beheld my neighbors for the first time.
                    As I sat thus on the wall I heard the sound of angry voices back of me on the
                        Glenarm side, and a crash of underbrush marked a flight and pursuit. I
                        crouched  down on the wall and waited. In a
                        moment a man plunged through the wood and stumbled over a low-hanging vine
                        and fell, not ten yards from where I lay. To my great surprise it was
                        Morgan, my acquaintance of the morning. He rose, cursed his ill luck and,
                        hugging the wall close, ran toward the lake. Instantly the pursuer broke
                        into view. It was Bates, evidently much excited and with an ugly cut across
                        his forehead. He carried a heavy club, and, after listening for a moment for
                        sounds of the enemy, he hurried after the caretaker.
                    It was not my row, though I must say it quickened my curiosity. I
                        straightened myself out, threw my legs over the school side of the wall and
                        lighted a cigar, feeling cheered by the opportunity the stone barricade
                        offered for observing the world.
                    As I looked off toward the little church I found two other actors appearing
                        on the scene. A girl stood in a little opening of the wood, talking to a
                        man. Her hands were thrust into the pockets of her covert coat; she wore a
                        red tam-o'-shanter, that made a bright bit of color in the wood.
                        They were not more than twenty feet away, but a wild growth of young maples
                        lay between us, screening the wall. Their profiles were toward me, and the
                        tones of the girl's voice reached me clearly, as she addressed her
                        companion. He wore a clergyman's high waistcoat, and I assumed that
                        he was the chaplain whom  Bates had mentioned.
                        I am not by nature an eavesdropper, but the girl was clearly making a plea
                        of some kind, and the chaplain's stalwart figure awoke in me an
                        antagonism that held me to the wall.
                    "If he comes here I shall go away, so you may as well understand it
                        and tell him. I shan't see him under any circumstances, and
                        I'm not going to Florida or California or anywhere else in a
                        private car, no matter who chaperones it."
                    "Certainly not, unless you want tocertainly not," said the
                        chaplain. "You understand that I'm only giving you his
                        message. He thought it best"
                    "Not to write to me or to Sister Theresa!" interrupted the
                        girl contemptuously. "What a clever man he is!"
                    "And how unclever I am!" said the clergman, laughing.
                        "Well, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to present his
                        message."
                    She smiled, nodded and turned swiftly toward the school. The chaplain looked
                        after her for a few moments, then walked away soberly toward the lake. He
                        was a young fellow, clean-shaven and dark, and with a pair of shoulders that
                        gave me a twinge of envy. I could not guess how great a factor that vigorous
                        figure was to be in my own affairs. As I swung down from the wall and walked
                        toward Glenarm House, my thoughts were  not
                        with the athletic chaplain, but with the girl, whose youth was, I reflected,
                        marked by her short skirt, the unconcern with which her hands were thrust
                        into the pockets of her coat, and the irresponsible tilt of the
                        tam-o'-shanter. There is something jaunty, a suggestion of spirit
                        and independence in a tam-o'-shanter, particularly a red one. If
                        the red tam-o'-shanter expressed, so to speak, the key-note of St.
                        Agatha's, the proximity of the school was not so bad a thing after
                        all.
                    In high good-humor and with a sharp appetite I went in to luncheon.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    THE GIRL AND THE CANOE
                    "The persimmons are off the place, sir. Mr. Glenarm was very fond of
                        the fruit."
                    I had never seen a persimmon before, but I was in a mood for experiment. The
                        frost-broken rind was certainly forbidding, but the rich pulp brought a
                        surprise of joy to my palate. Bates watched me with respectful satisfaction.
                        His gravity was in no degree diminished by the presence of a neat strip of
                        flesh-colored court-plaster over his right eye. A faint suggestion of arnica
                        hung in the air.
                    "This is a quiet life," I remarked, wishing to give him an
                        opportunity to explain his encounter of the morning.
                    "You are quite right, sir. As your grandfather used to say,
                        it's a place of peace."
                    "When nobody shoots at you through a window," I suggested.
                    "Such a thing is likely to happen to any gentleman," he
                        replied, "but not likely to happen more than once, if
                        you'll allow the philosophy."
                    
                    He did not refer to his encounter with the caretaker, and I resolved to keep
                        my knowledge of it to myself. I always prefer to let a rascal hang himself,
                        and here was a case, I reasoned, where, if Bates were disloyal to the duties
                        Pickering had imposed upon him, the fact of his perfidy was bound to
                        disclose itself eventually. Glancing around at him when he was off guard I
                        surprised a look of utter dejection upon his face as he stood with folded
                        arms behind my chair.
                    He flushed and started, then put his hand to his forehead.
                    "I met with a slight accident this morning, sir. The
                        hickory's very tough, sir. A piece of wood flew up and struck
                        me."
                    "Too bad!" I said with sympathy. "You'd
                        better rest a bit this afternoon."
                    "Thank you, sir; but it's a small matter,only, you might
                        think it a trifle disfiguring."
                    He struck a match for my cigarette, and I left without looking at him again.
                        But as I crossed the threshold of the library I formulated this note:
                        "Bates is a , for one thing, and a person with active
                        enemies for another; watch him."
                    All things considered, the day was passing well enough. I picked up a book,
                        and threw myself on a comfortable divan to smoke and reflect before
                        continuing my  explorations. As I lay there,
                        Bates brought me a telegram, a reply to my message to Pickering. It read:
                    "Yours announcing arrival received and filed."
                    It was certainly a queer business, my errand to Glenarm. I lay for a couple
                        of hours dreaming, and counted the candles in the great crystal chandelier
                        until my eyes ached. Then I rose, took my cap, and was soon tramping off
                        toward the lake.
                    There were several small boats and a naphtha launch in the boat-house. I
                        dropped a canoe into the water and paddled off toward the summer colony,
                        whose gables and chimneys were plainly visible from the Glenarm shore.
                    I landed and roamed idly over leaf-strewn walks past nearly a hundred
                        cottages, to whose windows and verandas the winter blinds gave a dreary and
                        inhospitable air. There was, at one point, a casino, whose broad veranda
                        hung over the edge of the lake, while beneath, on the water-side, was a
                        boat-house. I had from this point a fine view of the lake, and I took
                        advantage of it to fix in my mind the topography of the region. I could see
                        the bold outlines of Glenarm House and its red-tile roofs; and the gray
                        tower of the little chapel beyond the wall rose above the wood with a placid
                        dignity. Above the trees everywhere hung the shadowy smoke of autumn.
                    I walked back to the wharf, where I had left my 
                        canoe, and was about to step into it when I saw, rocking at a similar
                        landing-place near-by, another slight craft of the same type as my own, but
                        painted dark maroon. I was sure the canoe had not been there when I landed.
                        Possibly it belonged to Morgan, the caretaker. I walked over and examined
                        it. I even lifted it slightly in the water to test its weight. The paddle
                        lay on the dock beside me and it, too, I weighed critically, deciding that
                        it was a trifle light for my own taste.
                    "Pleaseif you don't mind"
                    I turned to stand face to face with the girl in the red
                        tam-o'-shanter.
                    "I beg your pardon," I said, stepping away from the canoe.
                    She did not wear the covert coat of the morning, but a red knit jacket,
                        buttoned tight about her. She was young with every emphasis of youth. A pair
                        of dark blue eyes examined me with good-humored curiosity. She was on good
                        terms with the sunI rejoiced in the brown of her cheeks, so eloquent of
                        companionship with the outdoor worlda certificate indeed of the favor of
                        Heaven. Show me, in October, a girl with a face of tan, whose hands have
                        plied a paddle or driven a golfball or cast a fly beneath the blue arches of
                        summer, and I will suffer her scorn in joy. She may vote me dull and refute
                        my wisest word with laughter, for hers  are the
                        privileges of the sisterhood of Diana; and that soft bronze, those daring
                        fugitive freckles beneath her eyes, link her to times when Pan whistled upon
                        his reed and all the days were long.
                    She had approached silently and was enjoying, I felt sure, my discomfiture at
                        being taken unawares.
                    I had snatched off my cap and stood waiting beside the canoe, feeling, I must
                        admit, a trifle guilty at being caught in the unwarrantable inspection of
                        another person's propertyparticularly a person so wholly pleasing
                        to the eye.
                    "Really, if you don't need that paddle any more"
                    I looked down and found to my annoyance that I held it in my hand,was in fact
                        leaning upon it with a cool air of proprietorship.
                    "Again, I beg your pardon," I said. "I
                        hadn't expected"
                    She eyed me calmly with the stare of the child that arrives at a drawing-room
                        door by mistake and scrutinizes the guests without awe. I didn't
                        know what I had expected or had not expected, and she manifested no
                        intention of helping me to explain. Her short skirt suggested fifteen or
                        sixteennot moreand such being the case there was no reason why I should not
                        be master of the situation. As I fumbled my pipe the hot coals  of tobacco burned my hand and I cast the thing
                        from me.
                    She laughed a little and watched the pipe bound from the dock into the water.
                    "Too bad!" she said, her eyes upon it; "but if you
                        hurry you may get it before it floats away."
                    "Thank you for the suggestion," I said. But I did not
                        relish the idea of kneeling on the dock to fish for a pipe before a strange
                        school-girl who was, I felt sure, anxious to laugh at me.
                    She took a step toward the line by which her boat was fastened.
                    "Allow me."
                    "If you think you can,safely," she said; and the laughter
                        that lurked in her eyes annoyed me.
                    "The feminine knot is designed for the confusion of man," I
                        observed, twitching vainly at the rope, which was tied securely in
                        unfamiliar loops.
                    She was singularly unresponsive. The thought that she was probably laughing
                        at my clumsiness did not make my fingers more nimble.
                    "The nautical instructor at St. Agatha's is undoubtedly a
                        woman. This knot must come in the post-graduate course. But my gallantry is
                        equal, I trust, to your patience."
                    
                    The maid in the red tam-o'-shanter continued silent. The wet rope
                        was obdurate, the knot more and more hopeless, and my efforts to make light
                        of the situation awakened no response in the girl. I tugged away at the
                        rope, attacking its tangle on various theories.
                    "A case for surgery, I'm afraid. A truly Gordian knot, but
                        I haven't my knife."
                    "Oh, but you wouldn't!" she exclaimed. "I
                        think I can manage."
                    She bent downI was aware that the sleeve of her jacket brushed my
                        shoulderseized an end that I had ignored, gave it a sharp tug with a slim
                        brown hand and pulled the knot free.
                    "There!" she exclaimed with a little laugh; "I
                        might have saved you all the bother."
                    "How dull of me! But I didn't have the
                        combination," I said, steadying the canoe carefully to mitigate the
                        ignominy of my failure.
                    She scorned the hand I extended, but embarked with light confident step and
                        took the paddle. It was growing late. The shadows in the wood were
                        deepening; a chill crept over the water, and, beyond the tower of the
                        chapel, the sky was bright with the splendor of sunset.
                    With a few skilful strokes she brought her little craft beside my pipe,
                        picked it up and tossed it to the wharf.
                    
                    "Perhaps you can pipe a tune upon it," she said, dipping
                        the paddle tentatively.
                    "You put me under great obligations," I declared,
                        "Are all the girls at St. Agatha's as amiable?"
                    "I should say not! I'm a great exception,andI really
                        shouldn't be talking to you at all! It's against the
                        rules! And we don't encourage smoking."
                    "The chaplain doesn't smoke, I suppose."
                    "Not in chapel; I believe it isn't done! And we rarely see
                        him elsewhere."
                    She had idled with the paddle so far, but now lifted her eyes and drew back
                        the blade for a long stroke.
                    "But in the woodthis morningby the wall!"
                    I hate myself to this day for having so startled her. The poised blade
                        dropped into the water with a splash; she brought the canoe a trifle nearer
                        to the wharf with an almost imperceptible stroke, and turned toward me with
                        wonder and dismay in her eyes.
                    "So you are an eavesdropper and detective, are you? I beg that you
                        will give your master my compliments! I really owe you an apology; I thought you were a gentleman!" she exclaimed with
                        withering emphasis, and dipped her blade deep in flight.
                    I called, stammering incoherently, after her, but her light argosy skimmed
                        the water steadily. The paddle  rose and fell
                        with trained precision, making scarcely a ripple as she stole softly away
                        toward the fairy towers of the sunset. I stood looking after her, goaded
                        with self-contempt. A glory of yellow and red filled the west. Suddenly the
                        wind moaned in the wood behind the line of cottages, swept over me and
                        rippled the surface of the lake. I watched its flight until it caught her
                        canoe and I marked the flimsy craft's quick response, as the shaken
                        waters bore her alert figure upward on the swell, her blade still
                        maintaining its regular dip, until she disappeared behind a little peninsula
                        that made a harbor near the school grounds.
                    The red tam-o'-shanter seemed at last to merge in the red sky, and I
                        turned to my canoe and paddled cheerlessly home.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    THE MAN ON THE WALL
                    I was so thoroughly angry with myself that after idling along the shores for
                        an hour I lost my way in the dark wood when I landed and brought up at the
                        rear door used by Bates for communication with the villagers who supplied us
                        with provender. I readily found my way to the kitchen and to a flight of
                        stairs beyond, which connected the first and second floors. The house was
                        dark, and my good spirits were not increased as I stumbled up the unfamiliar
                        way in the dark, with, I fear, a malediction upon my grandfather, who had
                        built and left incomplete a house so utterly preposterous. My unpardonable
                        fling at the girl still rankled; and I was cold from the quick descent of
                        the night chill on the water and anxious to get into more comfortable
                        clothes. Once on the second floor I felt that I knew the way to my room, and
                        I was feeling my way toward it over the rough floor when I heard low voices
                        rising apparently from my sitting-room.
                    It was pitch dark in the hall. I stopped short and listened. The door of my
                        room was open and a faint  light flashed once
                        into the hall and disappeared. I heard now a sound as of a hammer tapping
                        upon wood-work.
                    Then it ceased, and a voice whispered:
                    "He'll kill me if he finds me here. I'll try again
                        tomorrow. I swear to God I'll help you, but no more now"
                    Then the sound of a scuffle and again the tapping of the hammer. After
                        several minutes more of this there was a whispered dialogue which I could
                        not hear.
                    Whatever was occurring, two or three points struck me on the instant. One of
                        the conspirators was an unwilling party to an act as yet unknown; second,
                        they had been unsuccessful and must wait for another opportunity; and third,
                        the business, whatever it was, was clearly of some importance to myself, as
                        my own apartments in my grandfather's strange house had been chosen
                        for the investigation.
                    Clearly, I was not prepared to close the incident, but the idea of
                        frightening my visitors appealed to my sense of humor. I tiptoed to the
                        front stairway, ran lightly down, found the front door, and, from the
                        inside, opened and slammed it. I heard instantly a hurried scamper above,
                        and the heavy fall of one who had stumbled in the dark. I grinned with real
                        pleasure at the sound of this mishap, hurried into the great library, which
                        was as dark as a well, and, opening one of the long  windows, stepped out on the balcony. At once from the rear of
                        the house came the sound of a stealthy step, which increased to a run at the
                        ravine bridge. I listened to the flight of the fugitive through the wood
                        until the sounds died away toward the lake.
                    Then, turning to the library windows, I saw Bates, with a candle held above
                        his head, peering about.
                    "Hello, Bates," I called cheerfully. "I just got
                        home and stepped out to see if the moon had risen. I don't believe
                        I know where to look for it in this country."
                    He began lighting the tapers with his usual deliberation.
                    "It's a trifle early, I think, sir. About seven
                        o'clock, I should say, was the hour, Mr. Glenarm."
                    There was, of course, no doubt whatever that Bates had been one of the men I
                        heard in my room. It was wholly possible that he had been compelled to
                        assist in some lawless act against his will; but why, if he had been forced
                        into aiding a criminal, should he not invoke my own aid to protect himself?
                        I kicked the logs in the fireplace impatiently in my uncertainty. The man
                        slowly lighted the many candles in the great apartment. He was certainly a
                        deep one, and his case grew more puzzling as I studied it in relation to the
                        rifle-shot of the night before, his collision with Morgan in the wood, which
                        I had witnessed; and now the house itself had 
                        been invaded by some one with his connivance. The shot through the refectory
                        window might have been innocent enough; but these other matters in
                        connection with it could hardly be brushed aside.
                    Bates lighted me to the stairway, and said as I passed him:
                    "There's a baked ham for dinner. I should call it extra
                        delicate, Mr. Glenarm. I suppose there's no change in the dinner
                        hour, sir?"
                    "Certainly not," I said with asperity; for I am not a
                        person to inaugurate a dinner hour one day and change it the next. Bates
                        wished to make conversation,the sure sign of a guilty conscience in a
                        servant,and I was not disposed to encourage him.
                    I closed the doors carefully and began a thorough examination of both the
                        sitting-room and the little bedchamber. I was quite sure that my own effects
                        could not have attracted the two men who had taken advantage of my absence
                        to visit my quarters. Bates had helped unpack my trunk and undoubtedly knew
                        every item of my simple wardrobe. I threw open the doors of the three
                        closets in the rooms and found them all in the good order established by
                        Bates. He had carried my trunks and bags to a store-room, so that everything
                        I owned must have passed under his eye. My money even, the remnant of my
                        fortune that I had drawn from the  New York
                        bank, I had placed carelessly enough in the drawer of a chiffonnier
                        otherwise piled with collars. It took but a moment to satisfy myself that
                        this had not been touched. And, to be sure, a hammer was not necessary to
                        open a drawer that had, from its appearance, never been locked. The game was
                        deeper than I had imagined; I had scratched the crust without result, and my
                        wits were busy with speculations as I changed my clothes, pausing frequently
                        to examine the furniture, even the bricks on the hearth.
                    One thing only I foundthe slight scar of a hammerhead on the oak paneling
                        that ran around the bedroom. The wood had been struck near the base and at
                        the top of every panel, for though the mark was not perceptible on all, a
                        test had evidently been made systematically. With this as a beginning, I
                        found a moment later a spot of tallow under a heavy table in one corner.
                        Evidently the furniture had been moved to permit of the closest scrutiny of
                        the paneling. Even behind the bed I found the same impress of the
                        hammer-head; the test had undoubtedly been thorough, for a pretty smart tap
                        on oak is necessary to leave an impression. My visitors had undoubtedly been
                        making soundings in search of a recess of some kind in the wall, and as they
                        had failed of their purpose they were likely, I assumed, to pursue their
                        researches further.
                    
                    I pondered these things with a thoroughly-awakened interest in life. Glenarm
                        House really promised to prove exciting. I took from a drawer a small
                        revolver, filled its chambers with cartridges and thrust it into my hip
                        pocket, whistling meanwhile Larry Donovan's favorite air, the Marche Funbre d'une Marionnette. My heart went
                        out to Larry as I scented adventure, and I wished him with me; but
                        speculations as to Larry's whereabouts were always profitless, and
                        quite likely he was in jail somewhere.
                    The ham of whose excellence Bates had hinted was no disappointment. There is,
                        I have always held, nothing better in this world than a baked ham, and the
                        specimen Bates placed before me was a delight to the eye,so adorned was it
                        with spices, so crisply brown its outer coat; and a tastethat first
                        tentative taste, before the sauce was addedwas like a dream of Lucullus come
                        true. I could forgive a good deal in a cook with that touch,anything short
                        of arson and assassination!
                    "Bates," I said, as he stood forth where I could see him,
                        "you cook amazingly well. Where did you learn the
                        business?"
                    "Your grandfather grew very captious, Mr. Glenarm. I had to learn to
                        satisfy him, and I believe I did it, sir, if you'll pardon the
                        conceit."
                    
                    "He didn't die of gout, did he? I can readily imagine
                        it."
                    "No, Mr. Glenarm. It was his heart. He had his warning of
                        it."
                    "Ah, yes; to be sure. The heart or the stomach,one may as well fail
                        as the other. I believe I prefer to keep my digestion going as long as
                        possible. Those grilled sweet potatoes again, if you please,
                        Bates."
                    The game that he and I were playing appealed to me strongly. It was
                        altogether worth while, and as I ate guava jelly with cheese and toasted
                        crackers, and then lighted one of my own cigars over a cup of
                        Bates' unfailing coffee, my spirit was livelier than at any time
                        since a certain evening on which Larry and I had escaped from Tangier with
                        our lives and the curses of the police. It is a melancholy commentary on
                        life that contentment comes more easily through the stomach than along any
                        other avenue. In the great library, with its rich store of books and its
                        eternal candles, I sprawled upon a divan before the fire and smoked and
                        indulged in pleasant speculations. The day had offered much material for
                        fireside reflection, and I reviewed its history calmly.
                    There was, however, one incident that I found unpleasant in the retrospect. I
                        had been guilty of most  unchivalrous conduct
                        toward one of the girls of St. Agatha's. It had certainly been
                        unbecoming in me to sit on the wall, however unwillingly, and listen to the
                        wordsfew though they werethat passed between her and the chaplain. I forgot
                        the shot through the window; I forgot Bates and the interest my room
                        possessed for him and his unknown accomplice; but the sudden distrust and
                        contempt I had awakened in the girl by my clownish behavior annoyed me
                        increasingly.
                    I rose presently, found my cap in a closet under the stairs, and went out
                        into the moon-flooded wood toward the lake. The tangle was not so great when
                        you knew the way, and there was indeed, as I had found, the faint suggestion
                        of a path. The moon glorified a broad highway across the water; the air was
                        sharp and still. The houses in the summer colony were vaguely defined, but
                        the sight of them gave me no cheer. The tilt of her tam-o'-shanter
                        as she paddled away into the sunset had conveyed an impression of spirit and
                        dignity that I could not adjust to any imaginable expiation.
                    These reflections carried me to the borders of St. Agatha's, and I
                        followed the wall to the gate, climbed up, and sat down in the shadow of the
                        pillar farthest from the lake. Lights shone scatteringly in the buildings of
                        St. Agatha's, but the place was wholly silent. I drew out a
                        cigarette and was about to light it when  I
                        heard a sound as of a tread on stone. There was, I knew, no stone pavement
                        at hand, but peering toward the lake I saw a man walking boldly along the
                        top of the wall toward me. The moonlight threw his figure into clear relief.
                        Several times he paused, bent down and rapped upon the wall with an object
                        he carried in his hand.
                    Only a few hours before I had heard a similar sound rising from the
                        wainscoting of my own room in Glenarm House. Evidently the stone wall, too,
                        was under suspicion!
                    Tap, tap, tap! The man with the hammer was examining the farther side of the
                        gate, and very likely he would carry his investigations beyond it. I drew up
                        my legs and crouched in the shadow of the pillar, revolver in hand. I was
                        not anxious for an encounter; I much preferred to wait for a disclosure of
                        the purpose that lay behind this mysterious tapping upon walls on my
                        grandfather's estate.
                    But the matter was taken out of my own hands before I had a chance to debate
                        it. The man dropped to the ground, sounded the stone base under the gate,
                        likewise the pillars, evidently without results, struck a spiteful crack
                        upon the iron bars, then stood up abruptly and looked me straight in the
                        eyes. It was Morgan, the caretaker of the summer colony.
                    
                    "Good evening, Mr. Morgan," I said, settling the revolver
                        into my hand.
                    There was no doubt about his surprise; he fell back, staring at me hard, and
                        instinctively drawing the hammer over his shoulder as though to fling it at
                        me.
                    "Just stay where you are a moment, Morgan," I said
                        pleasantly, and dropped to a sitting position on the wall for greater ease
                        in talking to him.
                    He stood sullenly, the hammer dangling at arm's length, while my
                        revolver covered his head.
                    "Now, if you please, I'd like to know what you mean by
                        prowling about here and rummaging my house!"
                    "Oh, it's you, is it, Mr. Glenarm? Well, you certainly gave
                        me a bad scare."
                    His air was one of relief and his teeth showed pleasantly through his beard.
                    "It certainly is I. But you haven't answered my question.
                        What were you doing in my house to-day?"
                    He smiled again, shaking his head.
                    "You're really fooling, Mr. Glenarm. I wasn't in
                        your house to-day; I never was in it in my life!"
                    His white teeth gleamed in his light beard; his hat was pushed back from his
                        forehead so that I saw his eyes, and he wore unmistakably the air of a man
                        whose conscience is perfectly clear. I was confident that he  lied, but without appealing to Bates I was not
                        prepared to prove it.
                    "But you can't deny that you're on my grounds now,
                        can you?" I had dropped the revolver to my knee, but I raised it
                        again.
                    "Certainly not, Mr. Glenarm. If you'll allow me to
                        explain"
                    "That's precisely what I want you to do."
                    "Well, it may seem strange,"he laughed, and I felt the
                        least bit foolish to be pointing a pistol at the head of a fellow of so
                        amiable a spirit.
                    "Hurry," I commanded.
                    "Well, as I was saying, it may seem strange; but I was just
                        examining the wall to determine the character of the work. One of the
                        cottagers on the lake left me with the job of building a fence on his place,
                        and I've been expecting to come over to look at this all fall. You
                        see, Mr. Glenarm, your honored grandfather was a master in such matters, as
                        you may know, and I didn't see any harm in getting the benefitto
                        put it soof his experience."
                    I laughed. He had denied having entered the house with so much assurance that
                        I had been prepared for some really plausible explanation of his interest in
                        the wall.
                    
                    "Morganyou said it was Morgan, didn't you?you are
                        undoubtedly a scoundrel of the first water. I make the remark with
                        pleasure."
                    "Men have been killed for saying less," he said.
                    "And for doing less than firing through windows at a man's
                        head. It wasn't friendly of you."
                    "I don't see why you center all your suspicions on me. You
                        exaggerate my importance, Mr. Glenarm. I'm only the man-of-all-work
                        at a summer resort."
                    "I wouldn't believe you, Morgan, if you swore on a stack of
                        Bibles as high as this wall."
                    "Thanks!" he ejaculated mockingly.
                    Like a flash he swung the hammer over his head and drove it at me, and at the
                        same moment I fired. The hammer-head struck the pillar near the outer edge
                        and in such a manner that the handle flew around and smote me smartly in the
                        face. By the time I reached the ground the man was already running rapidly
                        through the park, darting in and out among the trees, and I made after him
                        at hot speed.
                    The hammer-handle had struck slantingly across my forehead, and my head ached
                        from the blow. I abused myself roundly for managing the encounter so
                        stupidly, and in my rage fired twice with no aim whatever after the flying
                        figure of the caretaker. He clearly had the advantage of familiarity with
                        the wood, striking off  boldly into the heart
                        of it, and quickly widening the distance between us; but I kept on, even
                        after I ceased to hear him threshing through the undergrowth, and came out
                        presently at the margin of the lake about fifty feet from the boat-house. I
                        waited in the shadow for some time, expecting to see the fellow again, but
                        he did not appear.
                    I found the wall with difficulty and followed it back to the gate. It would
                        be just as well, I thought, to possess myself of the hammer; and I dropped
                        down on the St. Agatha side of the wall and groped about among the leaves
                        until I found it.
                    Then I walked home, went into the library, alight with its many candles just
                        as I had left it, and sat down before the fire to meditate. I had been
                        absent from the house only forty-five minutes.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    A STRING OF GOLD BEADS
                    A moment later Bates entered with a fresh supply of wood. I watched him
                        narrowly for some sign of perturbation, but he was not to be caught off
                        guard. Possibly he had not heard the shots in the wood; at any rate, he
                        tended the fire with his usual gravity, and after brushing the hearth paused
                        respectfully.
                    "Is there anything further, sir?"
                    "I believe not, Bates. Oh! here's a hammer I picked up out
                        in the grounds a bit ago. I wish you'd see if it belongs to the
                        house."
                    He examined the implement with care and shook his head.
                    "It doesn't belong here, I think, sir. But we sometimes
                        find tools left by the carpenters that worked on the house. Shall I put this
                        in the tool-chest, sir?"
                    "Never mind. I need such a thing now and then and I'll keep
                        it handy."
                    "Very good, Mr. Glenarm. It's a bit sharper to-night, but
                        we're likely to have sudden changes at this season."
                    
                    "I dare say."
                    We were not getting anywhere; the fellow was certainly an incomparable actor.
                    "You must find it pretty lonely here, Bates. Don't hesitate
                        to go to the village when you like."
                    "I thank you, Mr. Glenarm; but I am not much for idling. I keep a
                        few books by me for the evenings. Annandale is not what you would exactly
                        call a diverting village."
                    "I fancy not. But the caretaker over at the summer resort has even a
                        lonelier time, I suppose. That's what I'd call a pretty
                        cheerless job,watching summer cottages in the winter."
                    "That's Morgan, sir. I meet him occasionally when I go to
                        the village; a very worthy person, I should call him, on slight
                        acquaintance."
                    "No doubt of it, Bates. Any time through the winter you want to have
                        him in for a social glass, it's all right with me."
                    He met my gaze without flinching, and lighted me to the stair with our
                        established ceremony. I voted him an interesting knave and really admired
                        the cool way in which he carried off difficult situations. I had no
                        intention of being killed, and now that I had due warning of danger, I
                        resolved to protect myself from foes without and within. Both Bates and
                        Morgan, the caretaker,  were liars of high
                        attainment. Morgan was, moreover, a cheerful scoundrel, and experience
                        taught me long ago that a knave with humor is doubly dangerous.
                    Before going to bed I wrote a long letter to Larry Donovan, giving him a full
                        account of my arrival at Glenarm House. The thought of Larry always cheered
                        me, and as the pages slipped from my pen I could feel his sympathy and hear
                        him chuckling over the lively beginning of my year at Glenarm. The idea of
                        being fired upon by an unseen foe would, I knew, give Larry a real lift of
                        the spirit.
                    The next morning I walked into the village, mailed my letter, visited the
                        railway station with true rustic instinct and watched the cutting out of a
                        freight car for Annandale with a pleasure I had not before taken in that
                        proceeding. The villagers stared at me blankly as on my first visit. A group
                        of idle laborers stopped talking to watch me; and when I was a few yards
                        past them they laughed at a remark by one of the number which I could not
                        overhear. But I am not a particularly sensitive person; I did not care what
                        my Hoosier neighbors said of me; all I asked was that they should refrain
                        from shooting at the back of my head through the windows of my own house.
                    On this day I really began to work. I mapped out  a course of reading, set up a draftsman's table I found put away
                        in a closet, and convinced myself that I was beginning a year of devotion to
                        architecture. Such was, I felt, the only honest course. I should work every
                        day from eight until one, and my leisure I should give to recreation and a
                        search for the motives that lay behind the crafts and assaults of my
                        enemies.
                    When I plunged into the wood in the middle of the afternoon it was with the
                        definite purpose of returning to the upper end of the lake for an interview
                        with Morgan, who had, so Bates informed me, a small house back of the
                        cottages.
                    I took the canoe I had chosen for my own use from the boat-house and paddled
                        up the lake. The air was still warm, but the wind that blew out of the south
                        tasted of rain. I scanned the water and the borders of the lake for signs of
                        life,more particularly, I may as well admit, for a certain maroon-colored
                        canoe and a girl in a red tam-o'-shanter, but lake and summer
                        cottages were mine alone. I landed and began at once my search for Morgan.
                        There were many paths through the woods back of the cottages, and I followed
                        several futilely before I at last found a small house snugly hid away in a
                        thicket of young maples.
                    The man I was looking for came to the door quickly in response to my knock.
                    
                    "Good afternoon, Morgan."
                    "Good afternoon, Mr. Glenarm," he said, taking the pipe
                        from his mouth the better to grin at me. He showed no sign of surprise, and
                        I was nettled by his cool reception. There was, perhaps, a certain element
                        of recklessness in my visit to the house of a man who had shown so singular
                        an interest in my affairs, and his cool greeting vexed me.
                    "Morgan" I began.
                    "Won't you come in and rest yourself, Mr.
                        Glenarm?" he interrupted. "I reckon you're tired
                        from your trip over"
                    "Thank you, no," I snapped.
                    "Suit yourself, Mr. Glenarm." He seemed to like my name and
                        gave it a disagreeable drawling emphasis.
                    "Morgan, you are an infernal blackguard. You have tried twice to
                        kill me"
                    "We'll call it that, if you like,"and he grinned.
                        "But you'd better cut off one for this."
                    He lifted the gray fedora hat from his head, and poked his finger through a
                        hole in the top.
                    "You're a pretty fair shot, Mr. Glenarm. The fact about me
                        is,"and he winked,"the honest truth is, I'm all
                        out of practice. Why, sir, when I saw you paddling out on the lake this
                        afternoon I sghted you from  the casino half a
                        dozen times with my gun, but I was afraid to risk it." He seemed to
                        be shaken with inner mirth. "If I'd missed, I
                        wasn't sure you'd be scared to death!"
                    For a novel diversion I heartily recommend a meeting with the assassin who
                        has, only a few days or hours before, tried to murder you. I know of nothing
                        in the way of social adventure that is quite equal to it. Morgan was a
                        fellow of intelligence and, whatever lay back of his designs against me, he
                        was clearly a foe to reckon with. He stood in the doorway calmly awaiting my
                        next move. I struck a match on my box and lighted a cigarette.
                    "Morgan, I hope you understand that I am not responsible for any
                        injury my grandfather may have inflicted on you. I hadn't seen him
                        for several years before he died. I was never at Glenarm before in my life,
                        so it's a little rough for you to visit your displeasure on
                        me."
                    He smiled tolerantly as I spoke. I knewand he knew that I didthat no ill
                        feeling against my grandfather lay back of his interest in my affairs.
                    "You're not quite the man your grandfather was, Mr.
                        Glenarm. You'll excuse my bluntness, but I take it that
                        you're a frank man. He was a very keen person,  and, I'm afraid,"he chuckled with evident
                        satisfaction to himself,"I'm really afraid, Mr. Glenarm,
                        that you're not!"
                    "There you have it, Morgan! I fully agree with you! I'm as
                        dull as an oyster; that's the reason I've called on you
                        for enlightenment. Consider that I'm here under a flag of truce,
                        and let's see if we can't come to an agreement."
                    "It's too late, Mr. Glenarm; too late. There was a time
                        when we might have done some business; but that's past now. You
                        seem like a pretty decent fellow, too, and I'm sorry I
                        didn't see you sooner; but better luck next time."
                    He stroked his yellow beard reflectively and shook his head a little sadly.
                        He was not a bad-looking fellow; and he expressed himself well enough with a
                        broad western accent.
                    "Well," I said, seeing that I should only make myself
                        ridiculous by trying to learn anything from him, "I hope our little
                        spats through windows and on walls won't interfere with our
                        pleasant social relations. And I don't hesitate to tell
                        you,"I was exerting myself to keep down my anger,"that if
                        I catch you on my grounds again I'll fill you with lead and sink
                        you in the lake."
                    "Thank you, sir," he said, with so perfect an imita  tion of Bates' voice and manner that
                        I smiled in spite of myself.
                    "And now, if you'll promise not to fire into my back
                        I'll wish you good day. Otherwise"
                    He snatched off his hat and bowed profoundly. "It'll suit
                        me much better to continue handling the case on your grounds," he
                        said, as though he referred to a business matter. "Killing a man on
                        your own property requires some explainingyou may have noticed it?"
                    "Yes; I commit most of my murders away from home," I said.
                        "I formed the habit early in life. Good day, Morgan."
                    As I turned away he closed his door with a slam,a delicate way of assuring me
                        that he was acting in good faith, and not preparing to puncture my back with
                        a rifle-ball. I regained the lake-shore, feeling no great discouragement
                        over the lean results of my interview, but rather a fresh zest for the game,
                        whatever the game might be. Morgan was not an enemy to trifle with; he was,
                        on the other hand, a clever and daring foe; and the promptness with which he
                        began war on me the night of my arrival at Glenarm House, indicated that
                        there was method in his hostility.
                    The sun was going his ruddy way beyond St. Agatha's as I drove my
                        canoe into a little cove near which the  girl
                        in the tam-o'-shanter had disappeared the day before. The shore was
                        high here and at the crest was a long curved bench of stone reached by half
                        a dozen steps, from which one might enjoy a wide view of the country, both
                        across the lake and directly inland. The bench was a pretty bit of work,
                        boldly reminiscential of Alma Tadema, and as clearly the creation of John
                        Marshall Glenarm as though his name had been carved upon it.
                    It was assuredly a spot for a pipe and a mood, and as the shadows crept
                        through the wood before me and the water, stirred by the rising wind, began
                        to beat below, I invoked the one and yielded to the other. Something in the
                        withered grass at my feet caught my eye. I bent and picked up a string of
                        gold beads, dropped there, no doubt, by some girl from the school or a
                        careless member of the summer colony. I counted the separate beadsthey were
                        round and there were fifty of them. The proper length for one turn about a
                        girl's throat, perhaps; not more than that! I lifted my eyes and
                        looked off toward St. Agatha's.
                    "Child of the red tam-o'-shanter, I'm very sorry I
                        was rude to you yesterday, for I liked your steady stroke with the paddle;
                        and I admired, even more, the way you spurned me when you saw that among all
                        the cads in the world I am number one in Class A. And these  golden bubbles (O girl of the red
                        tam-o'-shanter!), it they are not yours you shall help me find the
                        owner, for we are neighbors, you and I, and there must be peace between our
                        houses."
                    With this foolishness I rose, thrust the beads into my pocket, and paddled
                        home in the waning glory of the sunset.
                    That night, as I was going quite late to bed, bearing a candle to light me
                        through the dark hall to my room. I heard a curious sound, as of some one
                        walking stealthily through the house. At first I thought Bates was still
                        abroad, but I waited, listening for several minutes, without being able to
                        mark the exact direction of the sound or to identify it with him. I went on
                        to the door of my room, and still a muffled step seemed to follow me,first
                        it had come from below, then it was much like some one going up stairs,but
                        where? In my own room I still heard steps, light, slow, but distinct. Again
                        there was a stumble and a hurried recovery,ghosts, I reflected, do not fall
                        down stairs!
                    The sound died away, seemingly in some remote part of the house, and though I
                        prowled about for an hour it did not recur that night.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    THE GIRL AND THE RABBIT
                    Wind and rain rioted in the wood, and occasionally both fell upon the library
                        windows with a howl and a splash. The tempest had wakened me; it seemed that
                        every chimney in the house held a screaming demon. We were now well-launched
                        upon December, and I was growing used to my surroundings. I had offered
                        myself frequently as a target by land and water; I had sat on the wall and
                        tempted fate; and I had roamed the house constantly expecting to surprise
                        Bates in some act of treachery; but the days were passing monotonously. I
                        saw nothing of Morganhe had gone to Chicago on some errand, so Bates
                        reportedbut I continued to walk abroad every day, and often at night, alert
                        for a reopening of hostilities. Twice I had seen the red
                        tam-o'-shanter far through the wood, and once I had passed my young
                        acquaintance with another girl, a dark, laughing youngster, walking in the
                        highway, and she had bowed to me coldly. Even the ghost in the wall proved
                        inconstant, but I had twice heard the steps without being able to account
                        for them.
                    Memory kept plucking my sleeve with reminders of  my grandfather. I was touched at finding constantly his marginal notes in
                        the books he had collected with so much intelligence and loving care. It
                        occurred to me that some memorial, a tablet attached to the outer wall, or
                        perhaps, more properly placed in the chapel, would be fitting; and I
                        experimented with designs for it, covering many sheets of drawing-paper in
                        an effort to set forth in a few words some hint of his character. On this
                        gray morning I produced this: 
                            
                                1835 The life of John Marshall Blenarm was
                                    a testimony to the virtue of generosity, for Hearance and
                                    gentleness the Beautiful things be loved were not
                                    nobler than his own days His grandson (who served him
                                    ill) writes this of hi 1901
                            
                        
                    
                    I had drawn these words on a piece of cardboard and was studying them
                        critically when Bates came in with wood.
                    "Those are unmistakable snowflakes, sir," said Bates from
                        the window. "We're in for winter now."
                    It was undeniably snow; great lazy flakes of it were crowding down upon the
                        wood.
                    Bates had not mentioned Morgan or referred even remotely to the pistol-shot
                        of my first night, and he had  certainly
                        conducted himself as a model servant. The man-of-all-work at St.
                        Agatha's, a Scotchman named Ferguson, had visited him several
                        times, and I had surprised them once innocently enjoying their pipes and
                        whisky and water in the kitchen.
                    "They are having trouble at the school, sir," said Bates
                        from the hearth.
                    "The young ladies running a little wild, eh?"
                    "Sister Theresa's ill, sir. Ferguson told me last
                        night!"
                    "No doubt Ferguson knows," I declared, moving the papers
                        about on my desk, conscious, and not ashamed of it, that I enjoyed these
                        dialogues with Bates. I occasionally entertained the idea that he would some
                        day brain me as I sat dining upon the viands which he prepared with so much
                        skill; or perhaps he would poison me, that being rather more in his line of
                        business and perfectly easy of accomplishment; but the house was bare and
                        lonely and he was a resource.
                    "So Sister Theresa's ill!" I began, seeing that
                        Bates had nearly finished, and glancing with something akin to terror upon
                        the open pages of a dreary work on English cathedrals that had put me to
                        sleep the day before.
                    "She's been quite uncomfortable, sir; but they hope to see
                        her out in a few days!"
                    "That's good; I'm glad to hear it."
                    
                    "Yes, sir. I think we naturally feel interested, being neighbors.
                        And Ferguson says that Miss Devereux's devotion to her aunt is
                        quite touching."
                    I stood up straight and stared at Bates' backhe was trying to stop
                        the rattle which the wind had set up in one of the windows.
                    "Miss Devereux!" I laughed outright.
                    "That's the name, sir,rather odd, I should call
                        it."
                    "Yes, it is rather odd," I said, composed again, but not
                        referring to the name. My mind was busy with a certain paragraph in my
                        grandfather's will: 
                            Should he fail to comply with this provision, said oroperty shall
                                revert to my general estate, and become, without reservation, and
                                without necessity for any process of law, the property, absolutely,
                                of Marian Devereux, of the County and State of New York.
                        
                    
                    "Your grandfather was very fond of her, sir. She and Sister Theresa
                        were abroad at the time he died. It was my sorrowful duty to tell them the
                        sad news in New York, sir, when they landed."
                    "The devil it was!" It irritated me to remember that Bates
                        probably knew exactly the nature of my grandfather's will; and the
                        terms of it were not in the least creditable to me. Sister Theresa and her
                        niece were doubtless calmly awaiting my failure to remain at Glenarm House
                        during the disciplinary year,Sister  Theresa,
                        a Protestant nun, and the niece who probably taught drawing in the school
                        for her keep! I was sure it was drawing; nothing else would, I felt, have
                        brought the woman within the pale of my grandfather's beneficence.
                    I had given no thought to Sister Theresa since coming to Glenarm. She had
                        derived her knowledge of me from my grandfather, and, such being the case,
                        she would naturally look upon me as a blackguard and a menace to the peace
                        of the neighborhood. I had, therefore, kept rigidly to my own side of the
                        stone wall. A suspicion crossed my mind, marshaling a host of doubts and
                        questions that had lurked there since my first night at Glenarm.
                    "Bates!"
                    He was moving toward the door with his characteristic slow step.
                    "If your friend Morgan, or any one else, should shoot me, or if I
                        should tumble into the lake, or otherwise end my earthly
                        careerBates!"
                    His eyes had slipped from mine to the window and I spoke his name sharply.
                    "Yes, Mr. Glenarm."
                    "Then Sister Theresa's niece would get this property and
                        everything else that belonged to Mr. Glenarm."
                    "That's my understanding of the matter, sir."
                    
                    "Morgan, the caretaker, has tried to kill me twice since I came
                        here. He fired at me through the window the night I came,Bates!"
                    I waited for his eyes to meet mine again. His hands opened and shut several
                        times, and alarm and fear convulsed his face for a moment.
                    "Bates, I'm trying my best to think well of you; but I want
                        you to understand"I smote the table with my clenched
                        hand"that if these women, or your employer, Mr. Pickering, or that
                        damned hound, Morgan, or youdamn you, I don't know who or what you
                        are!think you can scare me away from here, you've waked up the
                        wrong man, and I'll tell you another thing,and you may repeat it to
                        your school-teachers and to Mr. Pickering, who pays you, and to Morgan, whom
                        somebody has hired to kill me,that I'm going to keep faith with my
                        dead grandfather, and that when I've spent my year here and done
                        what that old man wished me to do, I'll give them this house and
                        every acre of ground and every damned dollar the estate carries with it. And
                        now one other thing! I suppose there's a sheriff or some kind of a
                        constable with jurisdiction over this place, and I could have the whole lot
                        of you put into jail for conspiracy, but I'm going to stand out
                        against you alone,do you understand me, you hypocrite, you stupid, slinking
                        spy? Answer me, quick, before I throw you out of the room!"
                    
                    I had worked myself into a great passion and fairly roared my challenge,
                        pounding the table in my rage.
                    "Yes, sir; I quite understand you, sir. But I'm afraid,
                        sir"
                    "Of course you're afraid!" I shouted, enraged anew
                        by his halting speech. "You have every reason in the world to be
                        afraid. You've probably heard that I'm a bad lot and a
                        worthless adventurer; but you can tell Sister Theresa or Pickering or
                        anybody you please that I'm ten times as bad as I've ever
                        been painted. Now clear out of here!"
                    He left the room without looking at me again. During the morning I strolled
                        through the house several times to make sure he had not left it to
                        communicate with some of his fellow plotters, but I was, I admit,
                        disappointed to find him in every instance busy at some wholly proper task.
                        Once, indeed, I found him cleaning my storm boots! To find him thus humbly
                        devoted to my service after the raking I had given him dulled the edge of my
                        anger. I went back to the library and planned a cathedral in seven styles of
                        architecture, all unrelated and impossible, and when this began to bore me I
                        designed a crypt in which the wicked should be buried standing on their
                        heads and only the very good might lie and sleep in peace. These diversions
                        and several black cigars won me to a more amiable mood. I  felt better, on the whole, for having
                        announced myself to the delectable Bates, who gave me for luncheon a brace
                        of quails, done in a manner that stripped criticism of all weapons.
                    We did not exchange a word, and after knocking about in the library for
                        several hours I went out for a tramp. Winter had indeed come and possessed
                        the earth, and it had given me a new landscape. The snow continued to fall
                        in great, heavy flakes, and the ground was whitening fast.
                    A rabbit's track caught my eye and I followed it, hardly conscious
                        that I did so. Then the clear print of two small shoes mingled with the
                        rabbit's trail. A few moments later I picked up an overshoe,
                        evidently lost in the chase by one of Sister Theresa's girls, I
                        reflected. I remembered that while at Tech I had collected diverse
                        memorabilia from school-girl acquaintances, and here I was beginning a new
                        series with a string of beads and an overshoe!
                    A rabbit is always an attractive quarry. Few things besides riches are so
                        elusive, and the little fellows have, I am sure, a shrewd humor peculiar to
                        themselves. I rather envied the school-girl who had ventured forth for a run
                        in the first snow-storm of the season. I recalled Aldrich's. turn
                        on Gautier's lines as I followed the double trail:
                    
                    
                        "Howe'er you tread, a tiny mould
                        Betrays that light foot all the same;
                        Upon this glistening, snowy fold
                        At every step it signs your name."
                    
                    A pretty autograph, indeed! The snow fell steadily and I tramped on over the
                        joint signature of the girl and the rabbit. Near the lake they parted
                        company, the rabbit leading off at a tangent, on a line parallel with the
                        lake, while his pursuer's steps pointed toward the boat-house.
                    There was, so far as I knew, only one student of adventurous blood at St.
                        Agatha's, and I was not in the least surprised to see, on the
                        little sheltered balcony of the boat-bouse, the red tam-o'-shanter.
                        She wore, too, the covert coat I remembered from the day I saw her first
                        from the wall. Her back was toward me as I drew near; her hands were thrust
                        into her pockets. She was evidently enjoying the soft mingling of the snow
                        with the still, blue waters of the lake, and a girl and a snow-storm are, if
                        you ask my opinion, a pretty combination. The fact of a girl's
                        facing a winter storm argues mightily in her favor,testifies, if you will
                        allow me, to a serene and dauntless spirit, for one thing, and a sound
                        constitution, for another.
                    I ran up the steps, my cap in one hand, her overshoe. 
                        
                            She marched before me, her hands in her pockets.
                            
                                Page 121
                            
                        
                         in the other. She drew back a trifle, just
                        enough to bring my conscience to its knees.
                    "I didn't mean to listen that day. I just happened to be on
                        the wall and it was a thoroughly underbred my trickmy twitting you about
                        itand I should have told before if I'd known how to see
                        you"
                    "May I trouble you for that shoe?" she said with a great
                        deal of dignity.
                    They taught that cold disdain of man, I supposed, as required study at St.
                        Agatha's.
                    "Oh, certainly! Won't you allow me?"
                    "Thank you, no!"
                    I was relieved, to tell the truth, for I had been out of the world for most
                        of that period in which a youngster perfects himself in such graces as the
                        putting on of a girl's overshoes. She took the damp bit of rubbera
                        wet overshoes, even if small and hallowed by associations, isn't
                        prettyas Venus might have received a soft-shell crab from the hand of a
                        fresh young merman. I was between her and the steps to which her eyes turned
                        longingly.
                    "Of course, if you won't accept my apology I can't
                        do anything about it; but I hope you understand that I'm sincere
                        and humble, and anxious to be forgiven."
                    "You seem to be making a good deal of a small matter"
                    
                    "I wasn't referring to the overshoe!" I said.
                    She did not relent.
                    "If you'll only go away"
                    She rested one hand against the corner of the boat house while she put on the
                        overshoe. She wore, I noticed, brown gloves with cuffs.
                    "How can I go away! You children are always leaving things about for
                        me to pick up. I'm perfectly worn out carrying some girl's
                        beads about with me; and I spoiled a good glove on your overshoe."
                    "I'll relieve you of the beads, too, if you
                        please." And her tone measurably reduced my stature.
                    She thrust her hands into the pockets of her coat and shook the
                        tam-o'-shanter slightly, to establish it in a more comfortable spot
                        on her head. The beads had been in my corduroy coat since I found them. I
                        drew them out and gave them to her.
                    "Thank you; thank you very much."
                    "Of course they are yours, Miss"
                    She thrust them into her pocket.
                    "Of course they're mine," she said indignantly,
                        and turned to go.
                    "We'll waive proof of property and that sort of
                        thing," I remarked, with, I fear, the hope of detaining her.
                        "I'm sorry not to establish a more neighborly feeling with
                        St. Agatha's. The stone wall may seem formidable,  but it's not of my building. I must
                        open the gate. That wall's a trifle steep for climbing."
                    I was amusing myself with the idea that my identity was a dark mystery to
                        her. I had read English novels in which the young lord of the manor is
                        always mistaken for the game-keeper's son by the pretty daughter of
                        the curate who has come home from school to be the belle of the county. But
                        my lady of the red tam-o'-shanter was not a creature of illusions.
                    "It serves a very good purposethe wall, I meanMr. Glenarm."
                    She was walking down the steps and I followed. I am not a man to suffer a
                        lost school-girl to cross my lands unattended in a snow-storm; and the
                        piazza of a boat-house is not, I submit, a pleasant loafing-place on a
                        winter day. She marched before me, her hands in her pocketsI liked her
                        particularly that waywith an esay swing and a light and certain step. Her
                        remark about the wall did not encourage further conversation and I fell back
                        upon the poets.
                    
                        "Stone walls do not a prison make,
                        Nor iron bars a cage,"
                    
                    I quoted. Quoting poetry in a snow-storm while you stumble through a woodland
                        behind a girl who shows no interest in either your prose or your rhymes has
                        its  embarrassments, particularly when you are
                        breathing a trifle hard from the swift pace your auditor is leading you.
                    "I have heard that before," she said, half-turning her
                        face, then laughing as she hastened on.
                    Her brilliant cheeks were a delight to the eye. The snow swirled about her,
                        whitened the crown of her red cap and clung to her shoulders. Have you ever
                        seen snow-crystals gleam, break, dissolve in fair, soft, storm-blown hair?
                        Do you know how a man will pledge his soul that a particular flake will
                        never fade, never cease to rest upon a certain flying strand over a girlish
                        temple? And he loseshis heart and his wagerin a breath! If you fail to
                        understand these things, and are furthermore unfamiliar with the fact that
                        the color in the cheeks of a girl who walks abroad in a driving snow-storm
                        marks the favor of Heaven itself, then I waste time, and you will do well to
                        rap at the door of another inn.
                    "I'd rather missed you," I said; "and,
                        really, I should have been over to apologize if I hadn't been
                        afraid."
                    "Sister Theresa is rather fierce," she
                        declared. "And we're not allowed to receive gentlemen
                        callers,it says so in the catalogue."
                    "So I imagined. I trust Sister Theresa is improving."
                    
                    "Yes; thank you."
                    "And Miss Devereux,she is quite well, I hope?"
                    She turned her head as though to listen more carefully, and her step
                        slackened for a moment; then she hurried blithely forward.
                    "Oh, she's always well, I believe."
                    "You know her, of course."
                    "Oh, rather! She gives us music lessons."
                    "So Miss Devereux is the music-teacher, is she? Should you call her
                        a popular teacher?"
                    "The girls call her"she seemed moved to mirth by the
                        recollection"Miss Prim and Prosy."
                    "Ugh!" I exclaimed sympathetically. "Tall and
                        hungry-looking, with long talons that pound the keys with grim delight. I
                        know the sort."
                    "She's a sight!"and my guide laughed approvingly.
                    "But we have to take her; she's part of the
                        treatment."
                    "You speak of St. Agatha's as though it were a
                        sanatorium."
                    "Oh, it's not so bad! I've seen worse."
                    "Where do most of the students come from,all what you call
                        Hoosiers?"
                    "Oh, no! They're from all overCincinnati, Chicago,
                        Cleveland, Indianapolis."
                    "What the magazines call the Middle West."
                    "I believe that is so. The bishop addressed us once  as the flower of the Middle West, and made us
                        really wish he'd come again."
                    We were approaching the gate. Her indifference to the storm delighted me.
                        Here, I thought in my admiration, is a real product of the western world. I
                        felt that we had made strides toward such a comradeship as it is proper
                        should exist between a school-girl in her teens and a male neighbor of
                        twenty-seven. I wasgoing back to English fictionthe young squire walking
                        home with the curate's pretty young daughter and conversing with
                        fine condescension.
                    "We girls all wish we could come over and help hunt the lost
                        treasure. It must be simply splendid to live in a house where
                        there's a mystery,secret passages and chests of doubloons and all
                        that sort of thing! My! Squire Glenarm, I suppose you spend all your nights
                        exploring secret passages."
                    This free expression of opinion startled me, though she seemed wholly
                        innocent of impertinence.
                    "Who says there's any secret about the house?" I
                        demanded.
                    "Oh, Ferguson, the gardener, and all the girls!"
                    "I fear Ferguson is drawing on his imagination."
                    "Well, all the people in the village think so. I've heard
                        the candy-shop woman speak of it often."
                    "She'd better attend to her taffy," I retorted.
                    
                    "Oh, you mustn't be sensitive about it! All us girls think
                        it ever so romantic, and we call you sometimes the lord of the realm, and
                        when we see you walking through the darkling wood at evenfall we say,
                        'My lord is brooding upon the treasure chests.' "
                    This, delivered in the stilted tone of one who is halfquoting and
                        half-improvising, was irresistibly funny, and I laughed with good will.
                    "I hope you've forgiven me" I began, kicking the
                        gate to knock off the snow, and taking the key from my pocket.
                    "But I haven't, Mr. Glenarm. Your assumption is, to say the
                        least, unwarranted,I got that from a book!"
                    "It isn't fair for you to know my name and for me not to
                        know yours," I said leadingly.
                    "You are perfectly right. You are Mr. John Glenarmthe gardener told
                        meand I am just Olivia. They don't allow me to be called Miss yet.
                        I'm very young, sir!"
                    "You've only told me half,"and I kept my hand on
                        the closed gate. The snow still fell steadily and the short afternoon was
                        nearing its close. I did not like to lose her,the life, the youth, the mirth
                        for which she stood. The thought of Glenarm House amid the snowhung wood and
                        of the long winter evening that I must spend alone moved me to delay. Lights
                        already gleamed  in the school-buildings
                        straight before us and the sight of them smote me with loneliness.
                    "Olivia Gladys Armstrong," she said, laughing, brushed past
                        me through the gate and ran lightly over the snow toward St.
                        Agatha's.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    AN AFFAIR WITH THE CARETAKER
                    I read in the library until late, hearing the howl of the wind outside with
                        satisfaction in the warmth and comfort of the great room. Bates brought in
                        some sandwhich and a bottle of ale at midnight.
                    "If there's nothing more, sir"
                    "That is all, Bates." And he went off sedately to his own
                        quarters.
                    I was restless and in no mood for bed and mourned of lack of variety in my
                        grandfather's library. I moved from shelf to shelf, taking down one
                        book after another, and while thus engaged came upon a series of large
                        volumes extra-illustrated in water-colors of unusual beauty. They occupied a
                        lower shelf, and I sprawled on the floor, like a boy with a new
                        picture-book, in my absorption, piling the great volumes about me. They were
                        on related subjects pertaining to the French chteaux.
                    In the last volume I found a sheet of white notepaper no larger than my hand,
                        a forgotten book-mark,  I assumed, and
                        half-crumpled it in my fingers before I noticed the lines of a pencil sketch
                        on one side of it. I carried it to the table and spread it out.
                    It was not the bit of idle penciling it had appeared to be at first sight. A
                        scale had evidently been followed and the lines drawn with a ruler. With
                        such trifles my grandfather had no doubt amused himself. There was a long
                        corridor indicated, but of this I could make nothing. I studied it for
                        several minutes, thinking it might have been a tentative sketch of some part
                        of the house. In turning it about under the candelabrum I saw that in
                        several places the glaze had been rubbed from the paper by an eraser, and
                        this piqued my curiosity. I brought a magnifying glass to bear upon the
                        sketch. The drawing had been made with a hard pencil and the eraser had
                        removed the lead, but a well-defined imprint remained.
                    I was able to make out the letters N. W. 3/4 to C. a reference clearly enough
                        to points of the compass a distance. The word ravine was
                        scrawled over a rough outline of a doorway or opening of some sort, and then
                        the phrase: 
                            THE DOOR OF BEWILDERMENT
                        
                    
                    Now I am rather an imaginative person; that is why engineering captured my
                        fancy. It was through his trying  to make an
                        architect (a person who quarrels with women about their kitchen sinks!) of a
                        boy who wanted to be an engineer that my grandfather and I failed to hit it
                        off. From boyhood I have never seen a great bridge or watched a locomotive
                        climb a difficult hillside without a thrill; and a lighthouse still seems to
                        me quite the finest monument a man can build for himself. My
                        grandfather's devotion to old churches and medieval house always
                        struck me as trifling and unworthy of a grown man. And fate was busy with my
                        affairs that night, for, instead of lighting my pipe with the little sketch,
                        I was strangely impelled to study it seriously.
                    I drew for myself rough outlines of the interior of Glenarm House as it had
                        appeared to me, and then I tried to reconcile the little sketch with every
                        part of it.
                    "The Door of Bewilderment" was the charm that held me. The
                        phrase was in itself a lure. The man who had built a preposterous house in
                        the woods of Indiana and called it "The House of a Thousand
                        Candles" was quite capable of other whims; and as I bent over this
                        scrap of paper in the candle-lighted library it occurred to me that possibly
                        I had not done justice to my grandfather's genius. My curiosity was
                        thoroughly aroused as to the hidden corners of the queer old house, round
                        which the wind skrieked tormentingly.
                    
                    I went to my room, put on my corduroy coat for its greater warmth in going
                        through the cold halls, took a candle and went below. One o'clock
                        in the morning is not the most cheering hour for exploring the dark recesses
                        of a strange house, but I had resolved to have a look at the ravine-opening
                        and determine, if possible, whether it bore any relation to "The
                        Door of Bewilderment."
                    All was quiet in the great cellar; only here and there an area window rattled
                        dolorously. I carried a tapeline with me and made measurements of the length
                        and depth of the corridor and of the chambers that were set off from it.
                        These figures I entered in my note-book for further use, and sat down on an
                        empty nail-keg to reflect. The place was certainly substantial; the candle
                        at my feet burned steadily with no hint of a draft; but I saw no solution of
                        my problem. All the doors along the corridor were open, or yielded readily
                        to my hand. I was losing sleep for nothing; my grandfather's sketch
                        was meaningless, and I rose and picked up my candle, yawning.
                    Then a curious thing happened. The candle, whose thin flame had risen
                        unwaveringly, sputtered and went out as a sudden gust swept the corridor.
                    I had left nothing open behind me, and the outer  doors of the house were always locked and barred. But some one had gained
                        ingress to the cellar by an opening of which I knew nothing.
                    I faced the stairway that led up to the back hall of the house, when to my
                        astonishment, steps sounded behind me and, turning, I saw, coming toward me,
                        a man carrying a lantern. I marked his careless step; he was undoubtedly on
                        familiar ground. As I watched him he paused, lifted the lantern to a level
                        with his eyes and began sounding the wall with a hammer.
                    Here, undoubtedly, was my friend Morgan,again! There was the same periodicity
                        in the beat on the wall that I had heard in my own rooms. He began at the
                        top and went methodically to the floor. I leaned against the wall where I
                        stood and watched the lantern slowly coming toward me. The small revolver
                        with which I had fired at his flying figure in the wood was in my pocket. It
                        was just as well to have it out with the fellow now. My chances were as good
                        as his, though I confess I did not relish the thought of being found dead
                        the next morning in the cellar of my own house. It pleased my humor to let
                        him approach in this way, unconscious that he was watched, until I should
                        thrust my pistol into his face.
                    His arms grew tired when he was about ten feet from  me and he dropped the lantern and hammer to his side, and
                        swore under his breath impatiently.
                    Then he began again, with greater zeal. As he came nearer I studied his face
                        in the lantern's light with interest. His hat was thrust back, and
                        I could see his jaw hard-set under his blond beard.
                    He took a step nearer, ran his eyes over the wall and resumed his tapping.
                        The ceiling was something less than eight feet, and he began at the top. In
                        settling himself for the new series of strokes he swayed toward me slightly,
                        and I could hear his hard breathing. I was deliberating how best to throw
                        myself upon him, but as I wavered he stepped back, swore at his ill-luck and
                        flung the hammer to the ground.
                    "Thanks!" I shouted, leaping forward and snatching! the
                        lantern. "Stand just where you are!"
                    With the revolver in my right hand and the lantern held high in my left, I
                        enjoyed his utter consternation, as my voice roared in the corridor.
                    "It's too bad we meet under such strange circumstances,
                        Morgan," I said. "I'd begun to miss you; but I
                        suppose you've been sleeping in the daytime to gather strength for
                        your night prowling."
                    "You're a fool," he growled. He was recovering
                        from his fright,I knew it by the gleam of his teeth in his  yellow beard. His eyes, too, were moving
                        restlessly about. He undoubtedly knew the house better than I did, and was
                        considering the best means of escape. I did not know what to do with him now
                        that I had him at the point of a pistol; and in my ignorance of his motives
                        and my vague surmise as to the agency back of him, I was filled with
                        uncertainty.
                    "You needn't hold that thing quite so near," he
                        said, staring at me coolly.
                    "I'm glad it annoys you, Morgan," I said.
                        "It may help you to answer some questions I'm going to put
                        to you."
                    "So you want information, do you, Mr. Glenarm? I should think it
                        would be beneath the dignity of a great man like you to ask a poor devil
                        like me for help."
                    "We're not talking of dignity," I said.
                        "I want you to tell me how you got in here."
                    He laughed.
                    "You're a very shrewd one, Mr. Glenarm. I came in by the
                        kitchen window, if you must know. I got in before your solemn
                        jack-of-all-trades locked up, and I walked down to the end of the passage
                        there"he indicated the direction with a slight jerk of his
                        head"and slept until it was time to go to work. You can see how
                        easy it was!"
                    
                    I laughed now at the sheer assurance of the fellow.
                    "If you can't lie better than that you needn't try
                        again. Face about now, and march!"
                    I put new energy into my tone, and he turned and walked before me down the
                        corridor in the direction from which he had come. We were, I dare say, a
                        pretty pair,he tramping doggedly before me, I following at his heels with
                        his lantern and my pistol. The situation had played prettily into my hands,
                        and I had every intention of wresting from him the reason for his interest
                        in Glenarm House and my affairs.
                    "Not so fast," I admonished sharply.
                    "Excuse me," he replied mockingly.
                    He was no common rogue; I felt the quality in him with a certain admiration
                        for his scoundrelly talentsa fellow, I reflected, who was best studied at
                        the point of a pistol.
                    I continued at his heels, and poked the muzzle of the revolver against his
                        back from time to time to keep him assured of my presence,a device that I
                        was to regret a second later.
                    We were about ten yards from the end of the corridor when he flung himself
                        backward upon me, threw his arms over his head and seized me about the neck,
                        turning himself lithely until his fingers clasped my throat.
                    I fired blindly once, and felt the smoke of the revolver  hot in my own nostrils. The lantern fell from my hand, and one
                        or the other of us smashed it with our feet.
                    A wrestling match in that dark hole was not to my liking. I still held on to
                        the revolver, waiting for a chance to use it, and meanwhile he tried to
                        throw me, forcing me back against one side and then the other of the
                        passage.
                    With a quick rush he flung me away, and in the same second I fired. The roar
                        of the shot in the narrow corridor seemed interminable. I flung myself on
                        the floor, expecting a return shot, and quickly enough a flash broke upon
                        the darkness dead ahead, and I rose to my feet, fired again and leaped to
                        the opposite side of the corridor and crouched there. We had adopted the
                        same tactics, firing and dodging to avoid the target made by the flash of
                        our pistols, and watching and listening after the roar of the explosions. It
                        was a very pretty game, but destined not to last long. He was slowly
                        retreating toward the end of the passage, where there was, I remembered, a
                        dead wall. His only chance was to crawl through an area window I knew to be
                        there, and this would, I felt sure, give him into my hands.
                    After five shots apiece there was a truce. The pungent smoke of the powder
                        caused me to cough, and he laughed.
                    
                    "Have you swallowed a bullet, Mr. Glenarm?" he called.
                    I could hear his feet scraping on the cement floor; he was moving away from
                        me, doubtless intending to fire when he reached the area window and escape
                        before I could reach him. I crept warily after him, ready to fire on the
                        instant, but not wishing to throw away my last cartridge. That I resolved to
                        keep for close quarters at the window.
                    He was now very near the end of the corridor; I heard his feet strike some
                        boards that I remembered lay on the floor there, and I was nerved for a shot
                        and a hand-to-hand struggle, if it came to that.
                    I was sure that he sought the window; I heard his hands on the wall as he
                        felt for it. Then a breath of cold air swept the passage, and I knew he must
                        be drawing himself up to the opening. I fired and dropped to the floor. With
                        the roar of the explosion I heard him yell, but the expected return shot did
                        not follow.
                    The pounding of my heart seemed to mark the passing of hours. I feared that
                        my foe was playing some trick, creeping toward me, perhaps, to fire at close
                        range, or to grapple with me in the dark. The cold air still whistled into
                        the corridor, and I began to feel the chill of it. Being fired upon is
                        disagreeable enough, but waiting in the dark for the shot is worse.
                    
                    I rose and walked toward the end of the passage.
                    Then his revolver flashed and roared directly ahead, the flame of it so near
                        that it blinded me. I fell forward confused and stunned, but shook myself
                        together in a mement and got upon my feet. The draft of air no longer blew
                        into the passage. Morgan had taken himself off through the window and closed
                        it after him. I made sure of this by going to the window and feeling of it
                        with my hands.
                    I went back and groped about for my candle, which I found without difficulty
                        and lighted. I then returned to the window to examine the catch. To my utter
                        astonishment it was fastened with staples, driven deep into the sash, in
                        such way that it could not possibly have been opened without the aid of
                        tools. I tried it at every point. Not only was it securely fastened, but it
                        could not possibly be opened without an expenditure of time and labor.
                    There was no doubt whatever that Morgan knew more about Glenarm House than I
                        did. It was possible, but not likely, that he had crept past me in the
                        corridor and gone out through the house, or by some other cellar window. My
                        eyes were smarting from the smoke of the last shot, and my cheek stung where
                        the burnt powder had struck my face. I was alive, but in my vexation  and perplexity not, I fear, grateful for my
                        safety. It was, however, some consolation to feel sure I had winged the
                        enemy.
                    I gathered up the fragments of Morgan's lantern and went back to the
                        library. The lights in half the candlesticks had sputtered out. I
                        extinguished the remainder and started to my room.
                    Then, in the great dark hall, I heard a muffled tread as of some one
                        following me,not on the great staircase, nor in any place I could
                        identify,yet unmistakably on steps of some sort beneath or above me. My
                        nerves were already keyed to a breaking pitch, and the ghost-like tread in
                        the hall angered meMorgan, or his ally, Bates, I reflected, at some new
                        trick. I ran into my room, found a heavy walking-stick and set off for
                        Bates' room on the third floor. It was always easy to attribute any
                        sort of mischief to the fellow, and undoubtedly he was crawling through the
                        house somewhere on an errand that boded no good to me.
                    It was now past two o'clock and he should have been asleep and out
                        of the way long ago. I crept to his room and threw open the door without, I
                        must say, the slightest idea of finding him there. But Bates, the enigma,
                        Bates, the incomparable cook, the perfect servant, sat at a table, the light
                        of several candles falling on a book  over
                        which he was bent with that maddening gravity he had never yet in my
                        presence thrown off.
                    He rose at once, stood at attention, inclining his head slightly.
                    "Yes, Mr. Glenarm."
                    "Yes, the devil!" I roared at him, astonished at finding
                        him,sorry, I must say, that he was there. The stick fell from my hands. I
                        did not doubt he knew perfectly well that I had some purpose in breaking in
                        upon him. I was baffied and in my rage floundered for words to explain
                        myself.
                    "I thought I heard some one in the house. I don't want you
                        prowling about in the night, do you hear?"
                    "Certainly not, sir," he replied in a grieved tone.
                    I glanced at the book he had been reading. It was a volume of
                        Shakespeare's comedies, open at the first scene of the last act of
                            The Winter's Tale.
                    "Quite a pretty bit of work that, I should say," he
                        remarked. "It was one of my late master's
                        favorites."
                    "Go to the devil!" I bawled at him, and went down to my
                        room and slammed the door in rage and chagrin.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    I RECEIVE A CALLER
                    Going to bed at three o'clock on a winter morning in a house whose
                        ways are disquieting, after a duel in which you escaped whole only by sheer
                        good luck, does not fit one for sleep. When I finally drew the covers over
                        me it was to lie and speculate upon the events of the night in connection
                        with the history of the few weeks I had spent at Glenarm. Larry had
                        suggested in New York that Pickering was playing some deep game, and I,
                        myself, could not accept Pickering's statement that my
                        grandfather's large fortune had proved to be a myth. If Pickering
                        had not stolen or dissipated it, where was it concealed? Morgan was
                        undoubtedly looking for something of value or he would not risk his life in
                        the business; and it was quite possible that he was employed by Pickering to
                        search for hidden property. This idea took strong hold of me, the more
                        readily, I fear, since I had always been anxious to see evil in Pickering.
                        There was, to be sure, the unknown alternative  heir, but neither she nor Sister Theresa was, I imagined, a person
                        capable of hiring an assassin to kill me.
                    On reflection I dismissed the idea of appealing to the country authorities,
                        and I never regretted that resolution. The seat of Wabana County was twenty
                        miles away, the processes of law were unfamiliar, and I wished to avoid
                        publicity. Morgan might, of course, been easily disposed of by an appeal to
                        the Annandale constable, but now that I suspected Pickering of treachery the
                        caretaker's importance dwindled. I had waited all my life for a
                        chance at Arthur Pickering, and in this affair I hoped to draw him into the
                        open and settle with him.
                    I slept presently, but woke at my usual hour, and after a tub felt ready for
                        another day. Bates served me, as usual, a breakfast that gave a fair aspect
                        to the morning. I was alert for any sign of perturbation in him; but I had
                        already decided that I might as well look for emotion in a stone wall as in
                        this placid, colorless serving man. I had no reason to suspect him of
                        complicity in the night's affair, but I had no faith in him, and
                        merely waited until he should throw himself more boldly into the game.
                    By my plate next morning I found this note, written in a clear, bold,
                        woman's hand:
                    
                    
                        The Sisters of St. Agatha trust that the intrusion upon his grounds by
                            Miss Armstrong, one of their students, has caused Mr. Glenarm no
                            annoyance. The Sisters beg that this infraction of their discipline will
                            be overlooked, and they assure Mr. Glenarm that it will not recur.
                    
                    An unnecessary apology! The note-paper was of the best quality. At the head
                        of the page "St. Agatha's, Annandale" was
                        embossed in purple. It was the first note I had received from a woman for a
                        long time, and it gave me a pleasant emotion. One of the Sisters I had seen
                        beyond the wall undoubtedly wrote itpossibly Sister Theresa herself. A
                        clever woman, that! Thoroughly capable of plucking money from guileless old
                        gentlemen! Poor Olivia! born for freedom, but doomed to a pent-up existence
                        with a lot of nuns! I resolved to send her a box of candy sometime, just to
                        annoy her grim guardians. Then my own affairs claimed attention.
                    "Bates," I asked, "do you know what Mr. Glenarm
                        did with the plans for the house?"
                    He started slightly. I should not have noticed it if I had not been keen for
                        his answer.
                    "No, sir. I can't put my hand upon them, sir."
                    "That's all very well, Bates, but you didn't
                        answer my question. Do you know where they are? I'll put my hand on them if you will kindly
                        tell me where they're kept."
                    
                    "Mr. Glenarm, I fear very much that they have been destroyed. I
                        tried to find them before you came, to tell you the whole truth, sir; but
                        they must have been made 'way with."
                    "That's very interesting, Bates. Will you kindly tell me
                        whom you suspect of destroying them? The toast again, please."
                    His hand shook as he passed the plate.
                    "I hardly like to say, sir, when it's only a
                        suspicion."
                    "Of course I shouldn't ask you to incriminate yourself, but
                        I'll have to insist on my question. It may have occurred to you,
                        Bates, that I'm in a sensein a sense, mind youthe master
                        here."
                    "Well, I should say, if you press me, that I fear Mr. Glenarm, your
                        grandfather, burned the plans when he left here the last time. I hope you
                        will pardon me, sir, for seeming to reflect upon him."
                    "Reflect upon the devil! What was his idea, do you
                        suppose?"
                    "I think, sir, if you will pardon"
                    "Don't be so fussy!" I snapped. "Damn
                        your pardon, and go on!"
                    "He wanted you to study out the place for yourself, sir. It was dear
                        to his heart, this house. He set his heart upon having you enjoy
                        it"
                    "I like the wordgo ahead."
                    
                    "And I suppose there are things about it that he wished you to learn
                        for yourself."
                    "You know them, of course, and are watching me to
                        see when I'm hot or cold, like kids playing hide the
                        handkerchief."
                    The fellow turned and faced me across the table.
                    "Mr. Glenarm, as I hope God may be merciful to me in the last
                        judgment, I don't know any more than you do."
                    "You were here with Mr. Glenarm all the time he was building the
                        house, but you never saw walls built that weren't what they
                        appeared to be, or doors made that didn't lead anywhere."
                    I summoned all my irony and contempt for this arraignment. He lifted his
                        hand, as though making oath.
                    "As God sees me, that is all true. I was here to care for the dead
                        master's comfort and not to spy on him."
                    "And Morgan, your friend, what about him?"
                    "I wish I knew, sir."
                    "I wish to the devil you did," I said, and flung out of the
                        room and into the library.
                    At eleven o'clock I heard a pounding at the great front door and
                        Bates came to announce a caller who was now audibly knocking the snow from
                        his shoes the outer hall.
                    
                    "The Reverend Paul Stoddard, sir."
                    The chaplain of St. Agatha's was a big fellow, as I had remarked on
                        the occasion of his interview with Olivia Gladys Armstrong by the wall. His
                        light brown hair was close-cut; his smooth-shaven face was bright with the
                        freshness of youth. Here was a sturdy young apostle without frills, but with
                        a vigorous grip that left my hand tingling. His voice was deep and musical,a
                        voice that suggested sincerity and inspired confidence.
                    "I'm afraid I haven't been neighborly, Mr.
                        Glenarm. I was called away from home a few days after I heard of arrival,
                        and I have just got back. I blew in yesterday with the snow-storm."
                    He folded his arms easily and looked at me with cheerful directness, as
                        though politely interested in what manner of man I might be.
                    "It was a fine storm; I got a great day out of it," I said.
                        "An Indiana snow-storm is something I have never experienced
                        before."
                    "This is my second winter. I came out here because I wished to do
                        some reading, and thought I'd rather do it alone than in a
                        university."
                    "Studious habits are rather forced on one out here, I should say. In
                        my own case my course of reading is all cut out for me."
                    He ran his eyes over the room.
                    
                    "The Glenarm collection is famous,the best in the country, easily.
                        Mr. Glenarm, your grandfather, was certainly an enthusiast. I met him
                        several times; he was a trifle hard to meet,"and the clergyman
                        smiled.
                    I felt rather uncomfortable, assuming that he probably knew I was undergoing
                        discipline, and why my grandfather had so ordained it. The Reverend Paul
                        Stoddard was so simple, unaffected and manly a fellow that I shrank from the
                        thought that I must appear to him an ungrateful blackguard whom my
                        grandfather had marked with obloquy.
                    "My grandfather had his whims; but he was a fine, generous-hearted
                        old gentleman," I said.
                    "Yes; in my few interviews with him he surprised me by the range of
                        his knowledge. He was quite able to instruct me in certain curious branches
                        of church history that had appealed to him."
                    "You were here when he built the house, I suppose?"
                    My visitor laughed cheerfully.
                    "I was on my side of the barricade for a part of the time. You know
                        there was a great deal of mystery about the building of this house. The
                        country-folk hereabouts can't quite get over it. They have a
                        superstition that there's treasure buried somewhere on the place.
                        You see, Mr. Glenarm wouldn't employ any local labor. The work was
                        done by men he brought from  afar,none of
                        them, the villagers say, could speak English. They were all Greeks or
                        Italians."
                    "I have heard something of the kind," I remarked, feeling
                        that here was a man who with a little cultivating might help me to solve
                        some of my riddles.
                    "You haven't been on our side of the wall yet? Well, I
                        promise not to molest your hidden treasure if you'll be
                        neighborly."
                    "I fear there's a big joke involved in the hidden
                        treasure," I replied. "I'm so busy staying at
                        home to guard it that I have no time for social recreation."
                    He looked at me quickly to see whether I was joking. His eyes were steady and
                        earnest. The Reverend Paul Stoddard impressed me more and more agreeably.
                        There was a suggestion of a quiet strength about him that drew me to him.
                    "I suppose every one around here thinks of nothing but that
                        I'm at Glenarm to earn my inheritance. My residence here must look
                        pretty sordid from the outside."
                    "Mr. Glenarm's will is a matter of record in the county, of
                        course. But you are too hard on yourself. It's nobody's
                        business if your grandfather wished to visit his whims on you. I should say,
                        in my own case, that I don't consider it any of my business what
                        you are here for. I didn't come over to annoy you or to  pry into your affairs. I get lonely now and
                        then, and thought I'd like to establish neighborly
                        relations."
                    "Thank you; I appreciate your coming very much," and my
                        heart warmed under the manifest kindness of the man.
                    "And I hope"he spoke for the first time with
                        restraint"I hope nothing may prevent your knowing Sister Theresa
                        and Miss Devereux. They are interesting and charmingthe only women about
                        here of your own social status."
                    My liking for him abated slightly. He might be detective, representing the
                        alternative heir, for all I knew, and possibly Sister Theresa was a party to
                        the conspiracy.
                    "In time, no doubt, in time, I shall know them," I answered
                        evasively.
                    "Oh, quite as you like!"and he changed the subject. We
                        talked of many things,of outdoor sports, with which he showed great
                        familiarity, of universities, of travel and adventure. He was a Columbia man
                        and had spent two years at Oxford.
                    "Well," he exclaimed, "this has been very
                        pleasant, but I must run. I have just been over to see Morgan, the caretaker
                        at the resort village. The poor fellow accidentally shot himself yesterday,
                        cleaning his gun or something of that sort, and he has an ugly hole in his
                             arm that will shut him in for a month or
                        worse. He gave me an errand to do for him. He's a conscientious
                        fellow and wished me to wire for him to Mr. Pickering that he'd
                        been hurt, but was attending to his duties. Pickering owns a cottage over
                        there, and Morgan has charge of it. You know Pickering, of course?"
                    I looked my clerical neighbor straight in the eye, a trifle coldly perhaps. I
                        was wondering why Morgan, with whom I had enjoyed a duel in my own cellar
                        only a few hours before, should be reporting his injury to Arthur Pickering.
                    "I think I have seen Morgan about here," I said.
                    "Oh, yes! He's a woodsman and a hunterour Nimrod of the
                        lake."
                    "A good sort, very likely!"
                    "I dare say. He has sometimes brought me ducks during the
                        season."
                    "To be sure! They shoot ducks at night,these Hoosier hunters,so I
                        hear!"
                    He laughed as he shook himself into his greatcoat.
                    "That's possible, though unsportsmanlike. But we
                        don't have to look a gift mallard in the eye."
                    We laughed together. I found that it was easy to laugh with him.
                    "By the way, I forgot to get Pickering's address from
                        Morgan. If you happen to have it"
                    
                    "With pleasure," I said. "Alexis Building,
                        Broadway, New York."
                    "Good! That's easy to remember," he said, smiling
                        and turning up his coat collar. "Don't forget me;
                        I'm quartered in a hermit's cell back of the chapel, and I
                        believe we can find many matters of interest to talk about."
                    "I'm confident of it," I said, glad of the
                        sympathy and cheer that seemed to emanate from his stalwart figure.
                    I threw on my overcoat and walked to the gate with him, and saw him hurry
                        toward the village with long strides.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    I EXPLORE A PASSAGE
                    "Bates!" I found him busy replenishing the candlesticks in
                        the library,it seemed to me that he was always poking about with an armful
                        of candles,"there are a good many queer things in this world, but I
                        guess you're one of the queerest. I don't mind telling you
                        that there are times when I think you a thoroughly bad lot, and then again I
                        question my judgment and don't give you credit for being much more
                        than a doddering fool."
                    He was standing on a ladder beneath the great crystal chandelier that hung
                        from the center of the ceiling, and looked down upon me with that patient
                        injury that is so appealing in a dogin, say, the eyes of an Irish setter,
                        when you accidentally step on his tail. That look is heartbreaking in a
                        setter, but, seen in a man, it arouses the direst homicidal feelings of
                        which I am capable.
                    "Yes, Mr. Glenarm," he replied humbly.
                    "Now, I want you to grasp this idea that I'm going  to dig into this old shell top and bottom;
                        I'm going to blow it up with dynamite, if I please; and if I catch
                        you spying on me or reporting my doings to my enemies, or engaging in any
                        questionable performance whatever, I'll hang you between the posts
                        out there in the school-walldo you understand?so that the sweet Sisters of
                        St. Agatha and the dear little school-girls and the chaplain and all the
                        rest will shudder through all their lives at the very thought of
                        you."
                    "Certainly, Mr. Glenarm,"and his tone was the same he would
                        have used if I had asked him to pass me the matches, and under my breath I
                        consigned him to the harshest tortures of the fiery pit.
                    "Now, as to Morgan"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "What possible business do you suppose he has with Mr.
                        Pickering?" I demanded.
                    "Why, sir, that's clear enough. Mr. Pickering owns a house
                        up the lake,he got it through your grandfather. Morgan has the care of it,
                        sir."
                    "Very plausible, indeed!"and I sent him off to work.
                    After luncheon I went below and directly to the end of the corridor, and
                        began to sound the walls. To eye they were all alike, being of cement, and
                        substantial enough. Through the area window I saw the solid earth  and snow; surely there was little here to
                        base hope upon, and my wonder grew at the ease with which Morgan had
                        vanished through a barred window and into frozen ground.
                    The walls at the end of the passage were as solid as rock, and they responded
                        dully to the stroke of the hammer. I sounded them on both sides, retracing
                        my steps to the stairway, becoming more and more impatient at my ill-luck or
                        stupidity. There was every reason why I should know my own house, and yet a
                        stranger and an outlaw ran through it with amazing daring.
                    After an hour's idle search I returned to the end of the corridor,
                        repeated all my previous soundings, and, I fear, indulged in language
                        unbecoming a gentleman. Then, in my blind anger, I found what patient search
                        had not disclosed.
                    I threw the hammer from me in a fit of temper; it struck upon a large square
                        in the cement floor which gave forth a hollow sound. I was on my knees in an
                        instant, my fingers searching the cracks, and drawing down close I could
                        feel a current of air, slight but unmistakable, against my face.
                    The cement square, though exactly like the others in the cellar floor, was
                        evidently only a wooden imitation, covering an opening beneath.
                    The block was fitted into its place with a nicety that  certified to the skill of the hand that had adjusted it. I
                        broke a blade of my pocket-knife trying to pry up, but in a moment I
                        succeeded, and found it to be in reality a trap-door, hinged to the
                        substantial part of the floor.
                    A current of cool fresh air, the same that had surprised me in the night,
                        struck my face as I lay flat and peered into the opening. The lower passage
                        was as black as pitch, and I lighted a lantern I had brought with me, found
                        that wooden steps gave safe conduct below and went down.
                    I stood erect in the passage and had several inches to spare. It extended
                        both ways, running back unde the foundations of the house. This lower
                        passage cut squarely under the park before the house and toward the school
                        wall. No wonder my grandfather had brought foreign laborers who could speak
                        no English to work on his house! There was something delightful in the
                        largeness of his scheme, and I hurried through the tunnel with a hundred
                        questions tormenting my brain.
                    The air grew steadily fresher, until, after I had gone about two hundred
                        yards, I reached a point where the wind seemed to beat down on me from
                        above. I put up my hands and found two openings about two yards apart,
                        through which the air sucked steadily. I moved  out of the current with a chuckle in my throat and a grin on my face. I
                        had passed under the gate in the school-wall, and I knew now why the piers
                        that held it had been built so high,they were hollow and were the means of
                        sending fresh air into the tunnel.
                    I had traversed about twenty yards more when I felt a slight vibration
                        accompanied by a muffled roar, and almost immediately came to a short wooden
                        stair that marked the end of the passage. I had no means of judging
                        directions, but I assumed I was somewhere near the chapel in the
                        school-grounds.
                    I climbed the steps, noting still the vibration, and found a door that
                        yielded readily to pressure. In a moment I stood blinking, lantern in hand,
                        in a welllighted, floored room. Overhead the tumult and thunder lighted,
                        explained the tremor and roar I had heard below. I was in the crypt of St.
                        Agatha's chapel. The inside of the door by which I had entered was
                        a part of the wainscoting of the room, and the opening was wholly covered
                        with a map of the Holy Land.
                    In my absorption I had lost the sense of time, and I was amazed to find that
                        it was five o'clock, but I resolved to go into the chapel before
                        going home.
                    The way up was clear enough, and I was soon in the vestibule. I opened the
                        door, expecting to find a service in progress; but the little church was
                        empty save where,  at the right of the
                        chancel, an organist was filling the church with the notes of a triumphant
                        march. Cap in hand I stole forward and sank down in one of the pews.
                    A lamp over the organ keyboard gave the only light in the chapel, and made an
                        aureole about her head,about the uncovered head of Olivia Gladys Armstrong!
                        I smiled as I recognized her and smiled, too, as I remembered her name. But
                        the joy she brought to the music, the happiness in her face as she raised it
                        in the minor harmonies, her isolation, marked by the little isle of light
                        against the dark background of the choir,these things touched and moved me,
                        and I bent forward, my arms upon the pew in front of me, watching and
                        listening with a kind of awed wonder. Here was a refuge of peace and lulling
                        harmony after the disturbed life at Glenarm, and I yielded myself to its
                        solace with an inclination my life had rarely known.
                    There was no pause in the outpouring of the melody. She changed stops and
                        manuals with swift fingers and passed from one composition to another; now
                        it was an august hymn, now a theme from Wagner, and finally
                        Mendelssohn's Spring Song leaped forth exultant
                        in the dark chapel.
                    She ceased suddenly with a little sigh and struck her hands together, for the
                        place was cold. As she  reached up to put out
                        the lights I stepped forward to the chancel steps.
                    "Please allow me to do that for you?"
                    She turned toward me, gatherig a cape about her.
                    "Oh, it's you, is it?" she asked, looking about
                        quickly.
                    "I don't rememberI don't seem to
                        rememberthat you were invited."
                    "I didn't know I was coming myself," I remarked
                        truthfully, lifting my hand to the lamp.
                    "That is my opinion of you,that you're a rather unexpected
                        person. But thank you, very much."
                    She showed no disposition to prolong the interview, but hurried toward the
                        door, and reached the vestibule before I came up with her.
                    "You can't go any further, Mr. Glenarm," she said,
                        and waited as though to make sure I understood. Straight before us through
                        the wood and beyond the school-buildings the sunset faded sullenly. The
                        night was following fast upon the gray twilight and already the bolder
                        planets were aflame in the sky. The path led straight ahead beneath the
                        black boughs.
                    "I might perhaps walk to the dormitory, or whatever you call
                        it," I said.
                    "Thank you, no! I'm late and haven't time to
                        bother with you. It's against the rules, you know, for us to
                        receive visitors."
                    
                    She stepped out into the path.
                    "But I'm not a caller. I'm just a neighbor. And I
                        owe you several calls, anyhow."
                    She laughed, but did not pause, and I followed a pace behind her.
                    "I hope you don't think for a minute that I chased a rabbit
                        on your side of the fence just to meet you; do you, Mr. Glenarm?"
                    "Be it far from me! I'm glad I came, though, for I liked
                        your music immensely. I'm in earnest; I think it quite wonderful,
                        Miss Armstrong."
                    She paid no heed to me.
                    "And I hope I may promise myself the pleasure of hearing you
                        often."
                    "You are positively flattering, Mr. Glenarm; but as I'm
                        going away"
                    I felt my heart sink at the thought of her going away. She was the only
                        amusing person I had met at Glenarm, and the idea of losing her gave a
                        darker note to the bleak landscape.
                    "That's really too bad! And just when we were geting
                        acquainted! And I was coming to church every Sunday to hear you play and to
                        pray for snow, so you'd come over often to chase rabbits!"
                    This, I thought, softened her heart. At any rate her tone changed.
                    
                    "I don't play for services; they're afraid to let
                        me for fear I'd run comic-opera tunes into the Te Deum!"
                    "How shocking!"
                    "Do you know, Mr. Glenarm,"her tone became confidential and
                        her pace slackened,"we call you the squire, at St.
                        Agatha's, and the lord of the manor, and names like that! All the
                        girls are perfectly crazy about you. They'd be wild if they thought
                        I talked with you, clandestinely,is that the way you pronounce it?"
                    "Anything you say and any way you say it satisfies me," I
                        replied.
                    "That's ever so nice of you," she said, mockingly
                        again.
                    I felt foolish and guilty. She would probably get roundly scolded if the
                        grave Sisters learned of her talks with me, and very likely I should win
                        their hearty contempt. But I did not turn back.
                    "I hope the reason you're leaving isn't"
                        I hesitated.
                    "Ill conduct? Oh, yes; I'm terribly
                        wicked, Squire Glenarm! They're sending me off."
                    "But I suppose they're awfully strict, the
                        Sisters."
                    "They're hideous,perfectly hideous."
                    "Where is your home?" I demanded. "Chicago,
                        Indianapolis, Cincinnati, perhaps?"
                    "Humph, you are dull! You ought to know from my
                        accent that I'm not from Chicago. And I hope I haven't  a Kentucky girl's air of waiting to
                        be flattered to death. And no Indianapolis girl would talk to a strange man
                        at the edge of a deep wood in the gray twilight of a winter
                        day,that's from a book; and the Cincinnati girl is without my lan, esprit,whatever you please to call it. She has more
                        Teutonic repose,more of Gretchen-of-the-Rhine-Valley about her.
                        Don't you adore French, Squire Glenarm?" she concluded
                        breathlessly, and with no pause in her quick step.
                    "I adore yours, Miss Armstrong," I asserted, yielding
                        myself further to the joy of idiocy, and delighting in the mockery and
                        changing moods of her talk. I did not make her out; indeed, I preferred not
                        to! I was not then,and I am not now, thank God,of an analytical turn of
                        mind. And as I grow older I prefer, even after many a blow, to take my
                        fellow human beings a good deal as I find them. And as for women, old or
                        young, I envy no man his gift of resolving them into elements. As well carry
                        a spray of arbutus to the laboratory or subject the enchantment of moonlight
                        upon running water to the flame and blow-pipe as try to analyze the heart of
                        a girl,particularly a girl who paddles a canoe with a sure stroke and puts
                        up a good race with a rabbit.
                    A lamp shone ahead of us at the entrance of one of the houses, and lights
                        appeared in all the buildings.
                    
                    "If I knew your window I should certainly sing under it,except that
                        you're going home! You didn't tell me why they were
                        deporting you."
                    "I'm really ashamed to! You would never"
                    "Oh, yes, I would; I'm really an old friend!" I
                        insisted, feeling more like an idiot every minute.
                    "Well, don't tell! But they caught me flirtingwith the
                        grocery boy! Now aren't you disgusted?"
                    "Thoroughly! I can't believe it! Why, you'd a lot
                        better flirt with me," I suggested boldly.
                    "Well, I'm to be sent away for good at Christmas. I may
                        come back then if I can square myself. My! That's
                        slang,isn't it horrid?"
                    "The Sisters don't like slang, I suppose?"
                    "They loathe it! Miss Devereuxyou know who she is!she spies on us
                        and tells."
                    "You don't say so; but I'm not surprised at her.
                        I've heard about her!" I declared
                        bitterly.
                    We had reached the door, and I expected her to fly; but she lingered a
                        moment.
                    "Oh, if you know her! Perhaps you're a spy, too! just as
                        well we should never meet again, Mr. Glenarm," she declared
                        haughtily.
                    "The memory of these few meetings will always linger with me, Miss
                        Armstrong," I returned in an imitation of her own tone.
                    
                    "I shall scorn to remember you!"and she folded her arms
                        under the cloak tragically.
                    "Our meetings have been all too few, Miss Armstrong. Three, exactly,
                        I believe!"
                    "I see you prefer to ignore the first time I ever saw you,"
                        she said, her hand on the door.
                    "Out there in your canoe? Never! And you've forgiven me for
                        overhearing you and the chaplain on the wallplease!"
                    She grasped the knob of the door and paused an instant as though pondering.
                    "I make it four times, not counting once in the road and other times
                        when you didn't know, Squire Glenarm! I'm a foolish little
                        girl to have remembered the first. I see now how b-l-i-n-d I have
                        been."
                    She opened and closed the door softly, and I heard her running up the steps
                        within.
                    I ran back to the chapel, roundly abusing myself for having neglected my more
                        serious affairs for a bit of silly talk with a school-girl, fearful lest the
                        openings I had left at both ends of the passage should have been discovered.
                        The tunnel added a new and puzzling factor to the problem already before me,
                        and I was eager for an opportunity to sit down in peace and comfort to study
                        the situation.
                    At the chapel I narrowly escaped running into Stodard,  but I slipped past him, pulled the hidden dooi into place,
                        traversed the tunnel without incident, and soon climbed through the hatchway
                        and slammed the false block securely into the opening.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    A PAIR OF EAVESDROPPERS
                    When I came down after dressing for dinner, Bates called my attention to a
                        belated mail. I pounced eagerly upon a letter in Laurance Donovan's
                        well-known hand, bearing, to my surprise, an American stamp and postmarked
                        New Orleans. It was dated, however, at Vera Cruz, Mexico, December
                        fifteenth, 1901.
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    DEAR OLD MAN:
                                    I have had a merry time since I saw you in New York.
                                        Couldn't get away for a European port as I hoped
                                        when I left you, as the authorities seemed to be taking my
                                        case seriously, and I was lucky to get off as a deck-hand on
                                        a south-bound boat. I expected to get a slice of English
                                        prodigal veal at Christmas, but as things stand now, I am
                                        grateful to be loose even in this God-for saken hole. The
                                        British bulldog is eager to insert its teeth in my trousers,
                                        and I was flattered to see my picture bulletined in a
                                        conspicuous place the day I struck Vera Cruz. You see,
                                        they're badgering the Government at home because
                                        I'm not apprehended, and they've really
                                        got their catch and hang me to show that they've
                                        really got their hands on the Irish situation. I am not
                                        afraid of the Greasersno people who gorge themselves with
                                        bananas and red peppers can be dangerousbut the British
                                        consul here has a bad eye and even as I write I am dimly
                                        conscious  that a sleek
                                        person, who is ostensibly engaged in literary work at the
                                        next table, is really killing time while he waits for me to
                                        finish this screed.
                                    No doubt you are peacefully settled on your ancestral estate
                                        with only a few months and a little patience between you and
                                        your grandfather's siller. You always were a lucky
                                        brute. People die just to leave you money, whereas
                                        I'll have to die to get out of jail.
                                    I hope to land under the Stars and Stripes within a few days,
                                        either across country through El Paso or via New
                                        Orleans,preferably the former, as a man's social
                                        position is rated high in Texas in proportion to the amount
                                        of reward that's out for him. They'd
                                        probably give me the freedom of the state if they knew my
                                        crimes had been the subject of debate in the House of
                                        Commons.
                                    But the man across the table is casually looking over here
                                        for a glimpse of my signature, so I must give him a good one
                                        just for fun. With best wishes always,
                                    Faithfully yours, GEORGE WASHINGTON SMITH.
                                    
                                    P. S.I shan't mail this here, but give it to a
                                        red-haired Irishman on a steamer that sails north to-night.
                                        Pleasant, I must say, this eternal dodging! Wish I could
                                        share your rural paradise for the length of a pipe and a
                                        bottle! Have forgotten whether you said Indian Territory or
                                        Indiana, but will take chances on the latter as more
                                        remotely suggesting the aborigines.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Bates gave me my coffee in the library, as I wished to settle down to an
                        evening of reflection without delay. Larry's report of himself was
                        not reassuring. I knew that if he had any idea of trying to reach me he
                        would not mention it in a letter which might fall into the hands of the
                        authorities, and the hope that he might  join
                        me grew. I was not, perhaps, entitled to a companion at Glenarm under the
                        terms of my exile, but as a matter of protection in the existing condition
                        of affairs there could be no legal or moral reason why I should not defend
                        myself against my foes, and Larry was an ally worth having.
                    In all my hours of questioning and anxiety at Glenarm I never doubted the
                        amiable intentions of my grandfather. His device for compelling my residence
                        at his absurd house was in keeping with his character, and it was all
                        equitable enough. But his dead hand had no control over the strange issue,
                        and I felt justified in interpreting the will in the light of my
                        experiences. I certainly did not intend to appeal to the local police
                        authorities, at least not until the animus of the attack on me was
                        determined.
                    My neighbor, the chaplain, had inadvertently given me a bit of important
                        news; and my mind kept reverting to the fact that Morgan was reporting his
                        injury to the executor of my grandfather's estate in New York.
                        Everything else that had happened was tame and unimportant compared with
                        this. Why had John Marshall Glenarm made Arthur Pickering the executor of
                        his estate? He knew that I detested him, that Pickering's noble
                        aims and high ambitions had been praised by my family until his very name
                        sickened me; and yet my  own grandfather had
                        thought it wise to intrust his fortune and my future to the man of all men
                        who was most repugnant to me. I rose and paced the floor in anger.
                    Instead of accepting Pickering's word for it that the will was all
                        straight, I should have employed counsel and taken legal advice before
                        suffering myself to be rushed away into a part of the world I had never
                        visited before, and cooped up in a dreary house under the eye of a somber
                        scoundrel who might poison me any day, if he did not prefer to shoot me in
                        my sleep. My rage must fasten upon some one, and Bates was the nearest
                        target for it. I went to the kitchen, where he usually spent his evenings,
                        to vent my feelings upon him, only to find him gone. I climbed to his room
                        and found it empty. Very likely he was off condoling with his friend and
                        fellow conspirator, the caretaker, and I fumed with rage and disappointment.
                        I was thoroughly tired, as tired as on days when I had beaten my way through
                        tropical jungles without food or water; but I wished, in my impotent anger
                        against I knew not what agencies, to punish myself, to induce an utter
                        weariness that would drag me exhausted to bed.
                    The snow in the highway was well beaten down and I swung off countryward past
                        St. Agatha's. A gray mist hung over the fields in whirling clouds,
                        breaking  away occasionally and showing the
                        throbbing winter stars. The walk, and my interest in the alternation of
                        star-lighted and mist-wrapped landscape won me to a better state of mind,
                        and after tramping a couple of miles, I set out for home. Several times on
                        my tramp I had caught myself whistling the air of a majestic old hymn, and
                        smiled, remembering my young friend Olivia, and her playing in the chapel.
                        She was an amusing child; the thought of her further lifted my spirit; and I
                        turned into the school park as I passed the outer gate with a
                        half-recognized wish to pass near the barracks where she spent her days.
                    At the school-gate the lamps of a carriage suddenly blurred in the mist.
                        Carriages were not common in this region, and I was not surprised to find
                        that this was the familiar village hack that met trains day and night at
                        Glenarm station. Some parent, I conjectured, paying a visit to St.
                        Agatha's; perhaps the father of Miss Olivia Gladys Armstrong had
                        come to carry her home for a stricter discipline than Sister
                        Theresa's school afforded.
                    The driver sat asleep on his box, and I passed him and went on into the
                        grounds. A whim seized me to visit the crypt of the chapel and examine the
                        opening to the tunnel. As I passed the little group of school-buildings a
                        man came hurriedly from one of them and turned toward the chapel.
                    
                    I first thought it was Stoddard, but I could not make him out in the mist and
                        I waited for him to put twenty paces between us before I followed along the
                        path that led from the school to the chapel.
                    He strode into the chapel porch with an air of assurance, and I heard him
                        address some one who had been waiting. The mist was now so heavy that I
                        could not see my hand before my face, and I stole forward until I could hear
                        the voices of the two men distinctly.
                    "Bates!"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    I heard feet scraping on the stone floor of the porch.
                    "This is a devil of a place to talk in but it's the best we
                        can do. Did the young man know I sent for you?"
                    "No, sir. He was quite busy with his books and papers."
                    "Humph! We can never be sure of him."
                    "I suppose that is correct, sir."
                    "Well, you and Morgan are a fine pair, I must say! I thought he had
                        some sense, and that you'd see to it that he didn't make a
                        mess of this thing. He's in bed now with a hole in his arm and
                        you've got to go on alone."
                    "I'll do my best, Mr. Pickering."
                    "Don't call me by name, you idiot. We're not
                        advertising our business from the housetops."
                    
                    "Certainly not," replied Bates humbly.
                    The blood was roaring through my head, and my hands were clenched as I stood
                        there listening to this colloquy.
                    Pickering's voice wasand isunmistakable. There was always a purring
                        softness in it. He used to remind me at school of a sleek, complacent cat,
                        and I hate cats with particular loathing.
                    "Is Morgan lying or not when he says he shot him-self
                        accidentally?" demanded Pickering petulantly.
                    "I only know what I heard from the gardener here at the school.
                        You'll understand, I hope, that I can't be seen going to
                        Morgan's house."
                    "Of course not. But he says you haven't played fair with
                        him, that you even attacked him a few days after Glenarm came."
                    "Yes, and he hit me over the head with a club. It was his
                        indiscretion, sir. He wanted to go through the library in broad daylight,
                        and it wasn't any use, anyhow. There's nothing
                        there."
                    "But I don't like the looks of this shooting.
                        Morgan's sick and out of his head. But a fellow like Morgan
                        isn't likely to shoot himself accidentally, and now that
                        it's done the work's stopped and the time is running on.
                        What do you think Glenarm suspects?"
                    "I can't tell, sir, but mighty little, I should say. The
                             shot through the window the first night
                        he was here seemed to shake him a trifle, but he's quite settled
                        down now, I should say, sir."
                    "He probably doesn't spend much time on this side of the
                        fencedoesn't haunt the chapel, I fancy?"
                    "Lord, no, sir! I hardly suspect the young gentleman of being a
                        praying man."
                    "You haven't seen him prowling about analyzing the
                        architecture"
                    "Not a bit of it, sir. He hasn't, I should say, what his
                        revered grandfather called the analytical mind."
                    Hearing yourself discussed in this frank fashion by your own servant is, I
                        suppose, a wholesome thing for the spirit. The man who stands behind your
                        chair may acquire, in time, some special knowledge of your mental processes
                        by a diligent study of the back of your head. But I was not half so angry
                        with these conspirators as with myself, for ever having entertained a single
                        generous thought toward Bates. It was, however, consoling to know that
                        Morgan was lying to Pickering, and that my own exploits in the house were
                        unknown to the executor.
                    Pickering stamped his feet upon the paved porch floor in a way that I
                        remembered of old. It marked a conclusion, and preluded serious statements.
                    "Now, Bates," he said, with a ring of authority and  speaking in a louder key than he had yet
                        used, "it's your duty under all the circumstances to help
                        discover the hidden assets of the estate. We've got to pluck the
                        mystery from that architectural monster over there, and the time for doing
                        it is short enough. Mr. Glenarm was a rich man. To my own knowledge he had a
                        couple of millions, and he couldn't have spent it all on that
                        house. He reduced his bank account to a few thousand dollars and swept out
                        his safety-vault boxes with a broom before his last trip into Vermont. He
                        didn't die with the stuff in his clothes, did he?"
                    "Lord bless me, no, sir! There was little enough cash to bury him,
                        with you out of the country and me alone with him."
                    "He was a crank and I suppose he got a lot of satisfaction out of
                        concealing his money. But this hunt for it isn't funny. I supposed,
                        of course, we'd dig it up before Glenarm got here or I
                        shouldn't have been in such a hurry to send for him. But
                        it's over there somewhere, or in the grounds. There must be a plan
                        of the house that would help. I'll give you a thousand dollars the
                        day you wire me you have found any sort of clue."
                    "Thank you, sir."
                    "I don't want thanks, I want the money or securities or
                        whatever it is. I've got to go back to my car now,  and you'd better skip home. You
                        needn't tell your young master that I've been
                        here."
                    I was trying hard to believe, as I stood there with clenched hands outside
                        the chapel porch, that Arthur Pickering's name was written in the
                        list of directors of one of the greatest trust companies in America, and
                        that he belonged to the most exclusive clubs in New York. I had run out for
                        a walk with only an inverness over my dinner-jacket, and I was thoroughly
                        chilled by the cold mist. I was experiencing, too, an inner cold as I
                        reflected upon the greed and perfidy of man.
                    "Keep an eye on Morgan," said Pickering.
                    "Certainly, sir."
                    "And be careful what you write or wire."
                    "I'll mind those points, sir. But I'd suggest, if
                        you please, sir"
                    "Well?" demanded Pickering impatiently.
                    "That you should call at the house. It would look rather strange to
                        the young gentleman if you'd come here and not see him."
                    "I haven't the slightest errand with him. And besides, I
                        haven't time. If he learns that I've been here you may say
                        that my business was with Sister Theresa and that I regretted very much not
                        having an opportunity to call on him."
                    
                    The irony of this was not lost on Bates, who chuckled softly. He came out
                        into the open and turned away toward the Glenarm gate. Pickering passed me,
                        so near that I might have put out my hand and touched him, and in a moment I
                        heard the carriage drive off rapidly toward the village.
                    I heard Bates running home over the snow and listened to the clatter of the
                        village hack as it bore Pickering back to Annandale.
                    Then out of the depths of the chapel porchout of the depths of time and
                        space, it seemed, so dazed I stoodsome one came swiftly toward me, some one,
                        light of foot like a woman, ran down the walk a little way into the fog and
                        paused.
                    An exclamation broke from me.
                    "Eavesdropping for two!"it was the voice of Olivia.
                        "I'd take pretty good care of myself if I were you, Squire
                        Glenarm. Good night!"
                    "Good-by!" I faltered, as she sped away into the mist
                        toward the school.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    THE GIRL IN GRAY
                    My first thought was to find the crypt door and return through the tunnel
                        before Bates reached the house. The chapel was open, and by lighting matches
                        I found my way to the map and panel. I slipped through and closed the
                        opening; then ran through the passage with gratitude for the generous
                        builder who had given it a clear floor and an ample roof. In my haste I
                        miscalculated its length and pitched into the steps under the trap at a
                        speed that sent me sprawling. In a moment more had jammed the trap into
                        place and was running up the cellar steps, breathless, with my cap smashed
                        down over my eyes.
                    I heard Bates at the rear of the house and knew I had won the race by a
                        scratch. There was but a moment in which to throw my coat and cap under the
                        divan, slap the dust from my clothes and seat myself at the great table,
                        where the candles blazed tranquilly.
                    Bates' step was as steady as everthere was not the slightest hint of
                        excitement in itas he came and stood within the door.
                    
                    "Beg pardon, Mr. Glenarm, did you wish anything, six?"
                    "Oh, no, thank you, Bates."
                    "I had stepped down to the village, sir, to speak to the grocer. The
                        eggs he sent this morning were not quite up to the mark. I have warned him
                        not to send any of the storage article to this house."
                    "That's right, Bates." I folded my arms to hide my
                        hands, which were black from contact with the passage, and faced my man
                        servant. My respect for his rascally powers had increased immensely since he
                        gave me my coffee. A contest with so clever a rogue was worth while.
                    "I'm grateful for your good care of me, Bates. I had
                        expected to perish of discomfort out here, but you are treating me like a
                        lord."
                    "Thank you, Mr. Glenarm. I do what I can, sir."
                    He brought fresh candles for the table candelabra, going about with his
                        accustomed noiseless step. I felt a cold chill creep down my spine as he
                        passed behind me on these errands. His transition from the rle of
                        conspirator to that of my flawless servant was almost too abrupt.
                    I dismissed him as quickly as possible, and listened to his step through the
                        halls as he went about locking the doors. This was a regular incident, but I
                        was aware  to-night that he exercised what
                        seemed to me a particular care in settling the bolts. The locking-up process
                        had rather bored me before; to-night the snapping of bolts was particularly
                        trying.
                    When I heard Bates climbing to his own quarters I quietly went the rounds on
                        my own account and found everything as tight as a drum.
                    In the cellar I took occasion to roll some barrels of cement into the end of
                        the corridor, to cover and block the trap door. Bates had no manner of
                        business in that part of the house, as the heating apparatus was under the
                        kitchen and accessible by an independent stairway. I had no immediate use
                        for the hidden passage to the chpeland I did not intend that my enemies
                        should avail themselves of it. Morgan, at least, knew of it and, while he
                        was not likely to trouble me at once, I had resolved to guard every point in
                        our pleasant game.
                    I was tired enough to sleep when I went to my room, and after an eventless
                        night, woke to a clear day and keener air.
                    "I'm going to take a little run into the village,
                        Bates." I remarked at breakfast.
                    "Very good, sir. The weather's quite cleared."
                    "If any one should call I'll be back in an hour or
                        so."
                    "Yes, sir."
                    He turned his impenetrable face toward me as I rose.
                    
                    There was, of course, no chance whatever that any one would call to see me;
                        the Reverend Paul Stoddard was the only human being, except Bates, Morgan
                        and the man who brought up my baggage, who had crossed the threshold since
                        my arrival.
                    I really had an errand in the village. I wished to visit the hardware store
                        and buy some cartridges, but Pickering's presence in the community
                        was a disturbing factor in my mind. I wished to get sight of him,to meet
                        him, if possible, and see how a man, whose schemes were so deep, looked in
                        the light of day.
                    As I left the grounds and gained the highway Stoddard fell in with me.
                    "Well, Mr. Glenarm, I'm glad to see you abroad so early.
                        With that library of yours the temptation must be strong to stay within
                        doors. But a man's got to subject himself to the sun and wind. Even
                        a good wetting now and then is salutary."
                    "I try to get out every day," I answered. "But
                        I've chiefly limited myself to the grounds."
                    "Well, it's a fine estate. The lake is altogether charming
                        in summer. I quite envy you your fortune."
                    He walked with a long swinging stride, his hands thrust deep into his
                        overcoat pockets. It was difficult to accept the idea of so much physical
                        strength being wasted in the mere business of saying prayers in a
                        girls'  school. Here was a fellow who
                        should have been captain of a ship or a soldier, a leader of forlorn hopes.
                        I felt sure there must be a weakness of some sort in him. Quite possibly it
                        would prove to be a mild estheticism that delighted in the savor of incense
                        and the mournful cadence of choral vespers. He declined a cigar and this
                        rather increased my suspicions.
                    The village hack, filled with young women, passed at a gallop, bound for the
                        station, and we took off our hats.
                    "Christmas holidays," explained the chaplain.
                        "Practically all the students go home."
                    "Lucky kids, to have a Christmas to go home to!"
                    "I suppose Mr. Pickering got away last night?" he observed,
                        and my pulse quickened at the name.
                    "I haven't seen him yet," I answered guardedly.
                    "Then of course he hasn't gone!" and these words,
                        uttered in the big clergyman's deep tones, seemed wholly plausible.
                        There was, to be sure, nothing so unlikely as that Arthur Pickering,
                        executor of my grandfather's estate, would come to Glenarm without
                        seeing me.
                    "Sister Theresa told me this morning he was here. He called on her
                        and Miss Devereux last night. I haven't seen him myself. I thought
                        possibly I might run into him in the village. His car's very likely
                        on the station switch."
                    "No doubt we shall find him there," I answered easily.
                    
                    The Annandale station presented an appearance of unusual gaiety when we
                        reached the main street of the village. There, to be sure, lay a private car
                        on the siding, and on the platform was a group of twenty or more girls, with
                        several of the brown-habited Sisters of St. Agatha. There was something a
                        little foreign in the picture; the girls in their bright colors talking
                        gaily, the Sisters in their somber garb hovering about, suggesting France or
                        Italy rather than Indiana.
                    "I came here with the idea that St. Agatha's was a charity
                        school," I remarked to the chaplain.
                    "Not a bit of it! Sister Theresa is really a swell, you know, and
                        her school is hard to get into."
                    "I'm glad you warned me in time. I had thought of sending
                        over a sack of flour occasionally, or a few bolts of calico to help on the
                        good work. You've saved my life."
                    "I probably have. I might mention your good intentions to Sister
                        Theresa."
                    "Pray don't. If there's any danger of meeting her
                        on that platform"
                    "No; she isn't coming down, I'm sure. But you
                        ought to know her,if you will pardon me. And Miss Devereux is charming,but
                        really I don't mean to be annoying."
                    "Not in the least. But under the circumstances,  the will and my probationary year,you can understand"
                    "Certainly. A man's affairs are his own, Mr.
                        Glenarm."
                    We stepped upon the platform. The private car was on the opposite side of the
                        station and had been switched into a siding of the east and west road.
                        Pickring was certainly getting on. The private car, even more than the
                        yacht, is the symbol of plutocracy, and gaping rustics were evidently
                        impressed by its grandeur. As I lounged across the platform with Stoddard,
                        Pickring came out into the vestibule of his car, followed by two ladies and
                        an elderly gentleman. They all descended and began a promenade of the plank
                        walk.
                    Pickering saw me an instant later and came up hurriedly, with outstretched
                        hand.
                    "This is indeed good fortune! We dropped off here last night rather
                        unexpectedly to rest a hot-box and should have been picked up by the
                        midnight express for Chicago; but there was a miscarriage of orders
                        some-where and we now have to wait for the nine o'clock, and
                        it's late. If I'd known how much behind it was I should
                        have run out to see you. How are things going?"
                    "As smooth as a whistle! It really isn't so bad when you
                        face it. And the fact is I'm actually at work."
                    
                    "That's splendid. The year will go fast enough, never fear.
                        I suppose you pine for a little human society now and then. A man can never
                        strike the right medium in such things. In New York we are all rushed to
                        death. I sometimes feel that I'd like a little rustication myself.
                        I get nervous, and working for corporations is wearing. The old gentleman
                        there is Taylor, president of the Interstate and Western. The ladies are his
                        wife and her sister. I'd like to introduce you." He ran
                        his eyes over my corduroys and leggings amiably. He had not in years
                        addressed me so pleasantly.
                    Stoddard had left me to go to the other end of the platform to speak to some
                        of the students. I followed Pickering rather loathly to where the companions
                        of his travels were pacing to and fro in the crisp morning air.
                    I laugh still whenever I remember that morning at Annandale station. As soon
                        as Pickering had got me well under way in conversation with Taylor, he
                        excused himself hurriedly and went off, as I assumed, to be sure the station
                        agent had received orders for attaching the private car to the Chicago
                        express. Taylor proved to be a supercilious person,I believe they call him
                        Chilly Billy at the Metropolitan Club,and our efforts to converse
                    
                    were pathetically unfruitful. He asked me the value of land in my county, and
                        as my ignorance on this subject was vast and illimitable, I could see that
                        he was forming a low opinion of my character and intelligence. The two
                        ladies stood by, making no concealment of their impatience. Their eyes were
                        upon the girls from St. Agatha's on the other platform, whom they
                        could see beyond me. I had jumped the conversation from Indiana farm-lands
                        to the recent disorders in Bulgaria, which interested me more, when Mrs.
                        Taylor spoke abruptly to her sister.
                    "That's shethe one in the gray coat, talking to the
                        clergyman. She came a moment ago in the carriage."
                    "The one with the umbrella? I thought you said"
                    Mrs. Taylor glanced at her sister warningly, and they both looked at me. Then
                        they sought to detach themselves and moved away. There was some one on the
                        farther side of the platform whom they wished to see, and Taylor, not
                        understanding their manuverhe was realy anxious, I think, not to be left
                        alone with me started down the platform after them, I following. Mrs. Taylor
                        and her sister walked to the end of the platform and looked across, a
                        biscuit-toss away, to where Stoddard stood talking to the girl I had already
                        heard described as wearing a gray coat and carrying an umbrella.
                    
                    The girl in gray crossed the track quickly and addressed the two women
                        cordially. Taylor's back was to her and he was growing eloquent in
                        a mild well-bred way over the dullness of our statesmen in not seeing the
                        advantages that would accrue to the United States in fostering our shipping
                        industry. His wife, her sister and the girl in gray were so near that I
                        could hear plainly what they were saying. They were referring apparently to
                        the girl's refusal of an invitation to accompany them to
                        California.
                    "So you can't goit's too bad! We had hoped that
                        when you really saw us on the way you would relent," said Mrs.
                        Taylor.
                    "But there are many reasons; and above all Sister Theresa needs
                        me."
                    It was the voice of Olivia, a little lower, a little more restrained than I
                        had known it.
                    "But think of the rose gardens that are waiting for us out
                        there!" said the other lady. They were showing her the deference
                        that elderly women always have for pretty girls.
                    "Alas, and again alas!" exclaimed Olivia. "Please
                        don't make it harder for me than necessary. But I gave my promise a
                        year ago to spend these holidays in Cincinnati."
                    
                    She ignored me wholly, and after shaking hands with the ladies returned to
                        the other platform. I wondered whether she was overlooking Taylor on purpose
                        to cut me.
                    Taylor was still at his lecture on the needs of our American merchant marine
                        when Pickering passed hurriedly, crossed the track and began speaking
                        earnestly to the girl in gray.
                    "The American flag should command the seas. What we need is not more
                        battle-ships but more freight carriers" Taylor was saying.
                    But I was watching Olivia Gladys Armstrong. In a long skirt, with her hair
                        caught up under a gray toque that matched her coat perfectly, she was not my
                        Olivia of the tam-o'-shanter, who had pursued the rabbit; nor yet
                        the unsophisticated school-girl, who had suffered my idiotic babble; nor,
                        again, the dreamy rapt organist of the chapel. She was a grown woman with at
                        least twenty summers to her credit, and there was about her an air of
                        knowing the world, and of not being at all a person one would make foolish
                        speeches to. She spoke to Pickering gravely. Once she smiled dolefully and
                        shook her head, and I vaguely strove to remember where I had seen that look
                        in her eyes before. Her gold beads, which I had once carried in my pocket,
                        were clasped
                    
                    tight about the close collar of her dress; and I was glad, very glad, that I
                        had ever touched anything that belonged to her.
                    "As the years go by we are going to dominate trade more and more.
                        Our manufactures already lead the world, and what we make we've got
                        to sell, haven't we?" demanded Taylor.
                    "Certainly, sir," I answered warmly.
                    Who was Olivia Gladys Armstrong and what was Arthur Pickering's
                        business with her? And what was it she had said to me that evening when I
                        had found her playing on the chapel organ? So much happened that day that I
                        had almost forgotten, and, indeed, I had tried to forget I had made a fool
                        of myself for the edification of an amusing little school-girl. "I
                        see you prefer to ignore the first time I ever saw you," she had
                        said; but if I had thought of this at all it had been with righteous
                        self-contempt. Or, I may have flattered my vanity with the reflection that
                        she had eyed me her hero, perhapswith wistful admiration across the wall.
                    Meanwhile the Chicago express roared into Annan-dale and the private car was
                        attached. Taylor watched the trainmen with the cool interest of a man for
                        whom the proceeding had no novelty, while he continued to
                    
                    dilate upon the nation's commercial opportunities. I turned
                        perforce, and walked with him back toward the station, where Mrs. Taylor and
                        her sister were talking to the conductor.
                    Pickering came running across the platform with several telegrams in his
                        hand. The express had picked up the car and was ready to continue its
                        westward journey.
                    "I'm awfully sorry, Glenarm, that our stop's so
                        short,"and Pickering's face wore a worried look as he
                        addressed me, his eyes on the conductor.
                    "How far do you go?" I asked.
                    "California. We have interests out there and I have to attend some
                        stock-holders' meetings in Colorado in January."
                    "Ah, you business men! You business men!" I said
                        reproachfully. I wished to call him a blackguard then and there, and it was
                        on my tongue to do so, but I concluded that to wait until he had shown his
                        hand fully was the better game.
                    The ladies entered the car and I shook hands with Taylor, who threatened to
                        send me his pamphlet on The Needs of American Shipping,
                        when he got back to New York.
                    "It's too bad she wouldn't go with us. Poor girl!
                        this must be a dreary hole for her; she deserves wider
                    
                    horizons," he said to Pickering, who helped him upon the platform of
                        the car with what seemed to be unnecessary precipitation.
                    "You little know us," I declared, for Pickering's
                        benefit. "Life at Annandale is nothing if not exciting. The people
                        here are indifferent marksmen or there'd be murders
                        galore."
                    "Mr. Glenarm is a good deal of a wag," explained Pickering
                        dryly, swinging himself aboard as the train started.
                    "Yes; it's my humor that keeps me alive," I
                        responded, and taking off my hat, I saluted Arthur Pickering with my
                        broadest salaam.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    I MAKE AN ENGAGEMENT
                    The south-bound train had not arrived and as I turned away the station-agent
                        again changed its time on the bulletin board. It was now due in ten minutes,
                        A few students had boarded the Chicago train, but a greater number still
                        waited on the farther platform, The girl in gray was surrounded by half a
                        dozen students, all talking animatedly. As I walked toward them I Could not
                        justify my stupidity in mistaking a grown woman for a school-girl of fifteen
                        or sixteen; but it was the tam-o'-shanter, the short skirt, the
                        youthful joy in the outdoor world that had disguised her as effectually as
                        Rosalind to the eyes of Orlando in the forest of Arden. She was probably a
                        teacher,quite likely the teacher of music, I argued, who had amused herself
                        at my expense.
                    It had seemed the easiest thing in the world to approach her with an apology
                        or a farewell, but those few inches added to her skirt and that pretty gray
                        toque substituted for the tam-o'-shanter set up a barrier that did
                        not yield at all as I drew nearer. At the last moment,  as I crossed the track and stepped upon the other platform, it
                        occurred to me that while I might have some claim upon the attention of
                        Olivia Gladys Armstrong, a wayward school-girl of athletic tastes, I had
                        none whatever upon a person whom it was proper to address as Miss
                        Armstrong,who was, I felt sure, quite capable of snubbing me if snubbing
                        fell in with her mood.
                    She glanced toward me and bowed instantly. Her young companions withdrew to a
                        conservative distance; and I will say this for the St. Agatha girls: their
                        manners are beyond criticism, and an affable discretion is one of their most
                        admirable traits.
                    "I didn't know they ever grew up so fast,in a day and a
                        night!"
                    I was glad I remembered the number of beads in her chain; the item seemed at
                        once to become important.
                    "It's the air, I suppose. It's praised by
                        excellent critics, as you may learn from the catalogue."
                    "But you are going to an ampler ether, a diviner air. You have
                        attained the beatific state and at once take flight. If they confer
                        perfection like an academic degree at St. Agatha's, then"
                    I had never felt so stupidly helpless in my life. There were a thousand
                        things I wished to say to her; there were countless questions I wished to
                        ask; but her  calmness and poise were
                        disconcerting. She had not, apparently, the slightest curiosity about me;
                        and there was no reason why she should haveI knew that well enough! Her eyes
                        met mine easily; their azure depths puzzled me. She was almost, but not
                        quite, some one I had seen before, and it was not my woodland Olivia Her
                        eyes, the soft curve of her cheek, the light in her hair,but the memory of
                        another time, another place, another girl, lured only to baffle me.
                    She laughed,a little murmuring laugh.
                    "I'll never tell if you won't," she said.
                    "But I don't see how that helps me with you?"
                    "It certainly does not! That is a much more serious matter, Mr.
                        Glenarm."
                    "And the worst of it is that I haven't a single thing to
                        say for myself. It wasn't the not knowing that was so utterly
                        stupid"
                    "Certainly not! It was talking that ridiculous twaddle. It was
                        trying to flirt with a silly school-girl. What will do for fifteen is
                        somewhat vacuous for"
                    She paused abruptly, colored and laughed.
                    "I am twenty-seven!"
                    "And I am just the usual age," she said.
                    "Ages don't count, but time is important. There are many
                        things I wish you'd tell me,you who hold the key of the gate of
                        mystery."
                    
                    "Then you'll have to pick the lock!"
                    She laughed lightly. The somber Sisters patrolling the platform with their
                        charges heeded us little.
                    "I had no idea you knew Arthur Pickeringwhen you were just Olivia in
                        the tam-o'-shanter."
                    "Maybe you think he wouldn't have cared for my
                        acquaintanceas Olivia in the tam-o'-shanter. Men are very
                        queer!"
                    "But Arthur Pickering is an old friend of mine."
                    "So he told me."
                    "We were neighbors in our youth."
                    "I believe I have heard him mention it."
                    "And we did our prep school together, and then parted!"
                    "You tell exactly the same story, so it must be true. He went to
                        college and you went to Tech."
                    "And you knew him?" I began, my curiosity thoroughly
                        aroused.
                    "Not at college, any more than I knew you at Tech."
                    "The train's coming," I said earnestly,
                        "and I wish you would tell mewhen I shall see you again!"
                    "Before we part for ever?" There was a mischievous hint of
                        the Olivia in short skirts in her tone.
                    "Please don't suggest it! Our times have been strange and
                        few. There was that first night, when you called to me from the
                        lake."
                    
                    "How impertinent! How dare youremember that?"
                    And there was that other encounter at the chapel porch. Neither you nor I had
                        the slightest business there. I admit my own culpability."
                    She colored again.
                    "But you spoke as though you understood what you must have heard
                        there. It is important for me to know. I have a right to know just what you
                        meant by that warning."
                    Real distress showed in her face for an instant. The agent and his helpers
                        rushed the last baggage down the platform, and the rails hummed their
                        warning of the approaching train.
                    "I was eavesdropping on my own account," she said hurriedly
                        and with a note of finality. "I was there by intention,
                        and"there was another hint of the tam-o'-shanter in the
                        mirth that seemed to bubble for a moment in her
                        throat"it's too bad you didn't see me, for I had
                        on my prettiest gown, and the fog wasn't good for it. But you know
                        as much of what was said there as I do. You are a man, and I have heard that
                        you have had some experience in taking care of yourself, Mr.
                        Glenarm."
                    "To be sure; but there are times"
                    "Yes, there are times when the odds seem rather heavy. I have
                        noticed that myself."
                    
                    The smiled, but for an instant the sad look came into her eyes,a look that
                        vaguely but insistently suggested another time and place.
                    "I want you to come back," I said boldly, for the train was
                        very near, and I felt that the eyes of the Sisters were upon us.
                        "You can not go away where I shall not find you!"
                    I did not know who this girl was, her home, or her relation to the school,
                        but I knew that her life and mine had touched strangely; that her eyes were
                        blue, and that her voice had called to me twice through the dark, in mockery
                        once and in warning another time, and that the sense of having known her
                        before, of having looked into her eyes, haunted me. The youth in her was so
                        luring; she was at once so frank and so guarded,breeding and the taste and
                        training of an ampler world than that of Annandale were so evidenced in the
                        witchery of her voice, in the grace and ease that marked her every motion,
                        in the soft gray tone of hat, dress and gloves, that a new mood, a new hope
                        and faith sang in my pulses. There, on that platform, I felt again the sweet
                        heartache I had known as a boy, when spring first warmed the Vermont
                        hillsides and the mountains sent the last snows singing in joy of their
                        release down through the brook-beds and into the wakened heart of youth.
                    
                    She met my eyes steadily.
                    "If I thought there was the slightest chance of my ever seeing you
                        again I shouldn't be talking to you here. But I thought, I thought
                        it would be good fun to see how you really talked to a grown-up. So I am
                        risking the displeasure of these good Sisters just to test your
                        conversational powers, Mr. Glenarm. You see how perfectly frank I
                        am."
                    "But you forget that I can follow you; I don't intend to
                        sit down in this hole and dream about you. You can't go anywhere
                        but I shall follow and find you."
                    "That is finely spoken, Squire Glenarm! But I imagine you are hardly
                        likely to go far from Glenarm very soon. It isn't, of course, any
                        of my affair; and yet I don't hesitate to say that I feel perfectly
                        safe from pursuit!"and she laughed her little low laugh that was
                        delicious in its mockery.
                    I felt the blood mounting to my cheek. She knew, then, that I was virtually a
                        prisoner at Glenarm, and for once in my life, at least, I was ashamed of my
                        folly that had caused my grandfather to hold and check me from the grave, as
                        he had never been able to control me in his life. The whole countryside knew
                        why I was at Glenarm, and that did not matter; but my heart rebelled at the
                        thought that this girl knew and mocked me with her knowledge.
                    
                    "I shall see you Christmas Eve," I said, "wherever
                        you may be."
                    "In three days? Then you will come to my Christmas Eve party. I
                        shall be delighted to see you,and, flattered! Just think of throwing away a
                        fortune to satisfy one's curiosity! I'm surprised at you,
                        but gratified, on the whole, Mr. Glenarm!"
                    "I shall give more than a fortune, I shall give the honor I have
                        pledged to my grandfather's memory to hear your voice
                        again."
                    "That is a great deal,for so small a voice; but money, fortune! A
                        man will risk his honor readily enough, but his fortune is a more serious
                        matter. I'm sorry we shall not meet again. It would be pleasant to
                        discuss the subject further. It interests me particularly."
                    "In three days I shall see you," I said.
                    She was instantly grave.
                    "No! Please do not try. It would be a great mistake. And, anyhow,
                        you can hardly come to my party without being invited."
                    "That matter is closed. Wherever you are on Christmas Eve I shall
                        find you," I said, and felt my heart leap, knowing that I meant
                        what I said.
                    "Good-by," she said, turning away. "I'm
                        sorry I shan't ever chase rabbits at Glenarm any more."
                    
                    "Or paddle a canoe, or play wonderful celestial music on the
                        organ."
                    "Or be an eavesdropper or hear pleasant words from the master of
                        Glenarm"
                    "But I don't know where you are goingyou haven't
                        told me anythingyou are slipping out into the world"
                    She did not hear or would not answer. She turned away, and was at once
                        surrounded by a laughing throng that crowded about the train. Two
                        brown-robed Sisters stood like sentinels, one at either side, as she stepped
                        into the car. I was conscious of a feeling that from the depths of their
                        hoods they regarded me with un-Christian disdain. Through the windows I
                        could see the students fluttering to seats, and the girl in gray seemed to
                        be marshaling them. The gray hat appeared at a window for an instant, and a
                        smiling face gladdened, I am sure, the guardians of the peace at St.
                        Agatha's, for whom it was intended.
                    The last trunk crashed into the baggage car, every window framed for a moment
                        a girl's face, and the train was gone.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    THE PASSING OF OLIVIA
                    Bates brought a great log and rolled it upon exactly the right spot on the
                        andirons, and a great constellation of sparks thronged up the chimney. The
                        old relic of a houseI called the establishment by many names, but this was,
                        I think, my favoritecould be heated in all its habitable parts, as Bates had
                        demonstrated. The halls were of glacial temperature these cold days, but my
                        room above, the dining-room and the great library were comfortable enough. I
                        threw down a book and knocked the ashes from my pipe.
                    "Bates!"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "I think my spiritual welfare is in jeopardy. I need counsel,a
                        spiritual adviser."
                    "I'm afraid that's beyond me, sir."
                    "I'd like to invite Mr. Stoddard to dinner so I may discuss
                        my soul's health with him at leisure."
                    "Certainly, Mr. Glenarm."
                    
                    "But it occurs to me that probably the terms of Mr.
                        Glenarm's will point to my complete sequestration here. In other
                        words, I may forfeit my rights by asking a guest to dinner."
                    He pondered the matter for a moment, then replied:
                    "I should think, sir,as you ask my opinion,that in the case of a
                        gentleman in holy orders there would be no impropriety. Mr. Stoddard is a
                        fine gentleman; I heard your late grandfather speak of him very
                        highly."
                    "That, I imagine, is hardly conclusive in the matter. There is the
                        executor"
                    "To be sure; I hadn't considered him."
                    "Well, you'd better consider him. He's the court
                        of last resort, isn't he?"
                    "Well, of course, that's one way of looking at it,
                        sir."
                    "I suppose there's no chance of Mr. Pickering's
                        dropping in on us now and then."
                    He gazed at me steadily, unblinkingly and with entire respect.
                    "He's a good deal of a traveler, Mr. Pickering is. He
                        passed through only this morning, so the mail-boy told me. You may have met
                        him at the station."
                    "Oh, yes; to be sure; so I did!" I replied. I was not  as good a liar as Bates; and there was
                        nothing to be gained by denying that I had met the executor in the village.
                        "I had a very pleasant talk with him. He was on the way to
                        California with several friends."
                    "That is quite his way, I understand,private cars and long journeys
                        about the country. A very successful man is Mr. Pickering. Your grandfather
                        had great confidence in him, did Mr. Glenarm."
                    "Ah, yes! A fine judge of character my grandfather was! I guess John
                        Marshall Glenarm could spot a rascal about as far as any man in his
                        day."
                    I felt like letting myself go before this masked scoundrel. The density of
                        his mask was an increasing wonder to me. Bates was the most incomprehensible
                        human being I had ever known. I had been torn with a thousand conflicting
                        emotions since I overheard him discussing the state of affairs at Glenarm
                        House with Pickering in the chapel porch; and Pickering's
                        acquaintance with the girl in gray brought new elements into the affair that
                        added to my uneasiness. But here was a treasonable dog on whom the stress of
                        conspiracy had no outward effect whatever.
                    It was an amazing situation, but it called for calmness and eternal
                        vigilance. With every hour my resolution grew to stand fast and fight it out
                        on my own account  without outside help. A
                        thousand times during the afternoon I had heard the voice of the girl in
                        gray saying to me: "You are a man, and I have heard that you have
                        had some experience in taking care of yourself, Mr. Glenarm."
                    It was both a warning and a challenge, and the memory of the words was at
                        once sobering and cheering.
                    Bates waited. Of him, certainly, I should ask no questions touching Olivia
                        Armstrong. To discuss her with a blackguard servant even to gain answers to
                        baffling questions about her was not to my liking. And, thank God! I taught
                        myself one thing, if nothing more, in those days at Glenarm House: I learned
                        to bide my time.
                    "I'll give you a note to Mr. Stoddard in the morning, You
                        may go now."
                    "Yes, sir."
                    The note was written and despatched. The chaplain was not at his lodgings,
                        and Bates reported that he had left the message. The answer came presently
                        by the hand of the Scotch gardener, Ferguson, a short, wiry, raw-boned
                        specimen. I happened to open the door myself, and brought him into the
                        library until I could read Stoddard's reply. Ferguson had, I
                        thought, an uneasy eye, and his hair, of an ugly carrot color, annoyed me.
                    
                    Mr. Paul Stoddard presented his compliments and would be delighted to dine
                        with me. He wrote a large even hand, as frank and open as himself.
                    "That is all, Ferguson." And the gardener took himself off.
                    Thus it came about that Stoddard and I faced each other across the table in
                        the refectory that same evening under the lights of a great candelabrum
                        which Bates had produced from the store-room below. And I may say here, that
                        while there was a slight hitch sometimes in the delivery of supplies from
                        the village; while the fish which Bates caused to be shipped from Chicago
                        for delivery every Friday morning failed once or twice, and while the
                        grape-fruit for breakfast was not always what it should have been,the supply
                        of candles seemed inexhaustible. They were produced in every shade and size.
                        There were enormous ones, such as I had never seen outside of a Russian
                        church,and one of the rooms in the cellar was filled with boxes of them. The
                        House of a Thousand Candles deserved and proved its name.
                    Bates had certainly risen to the occasion. Silver and crystal of which I had
                        not known before glistened on the table, and on the sideboard two huge
                        candelabra added to the festival air of the little room.
                    
                    Stoddard laughed as he glanced about.
                    "Here I have been feeling sorry for you, and yet you are living like
                        a prince. I didn't know there was so much splendor in all Wabana
                        County."
                    "I'm a trifle dazzled myself. Bates has tapped a new cellar
                        somewhere. I'm afraid I'm not a good housekeeper, to speak
                        truthfully. There are times when I hate the house; when it seems wholly
                        ridiculous, the whim of an eccentric old man; and then again I'm
                        actually afraid that I like its seclusion."
                    "Your seclusion is better than mine. You know my little two-room
                        affair behind the chapel,only a few books and a punching bag. That chapel
                        also is one of your grandfather's whims. He provided that all the
                        offices of the church must be said there daily or the endowment is stopped.
                        Mr. Glenarm lived in the past, or liked to think he did. I suppose you
                        knowor maybe you don't knowhow I came to have this
                        appointment?"
                    "Indeed, I should like to know."
                    We had reached the soup, and Bates was changing our plates with his
                        accustomed light hand.
                    "It was my name that did the business,Paul. A bishop had recommended
                        a man whose given name was Ethelbert,a decent enough name and one that you
                        might imagine would appeal to Mr. Glenarm; but he  rejected him because the name might too easily be cut down to
                        Ethel, a name which, he said, was very distasteful to him."
                    "That is characteristic. The dear old gentleman!" I
                        exclaimed with real feeling
                    "But he reckoned without his host," Stoddard continued.
                        "The young ladies, I have lately learned, call me Pauline,, as a
                        mark of regard or otherwise,probably otherwise. I give two lectures a week
                        on church history, and I fear my course isn't popular."
                    "But it is something, on the other hand, to be in touch with such an
                        institution. They are a very sightly company, those girls. I enjoy watching
                        them across the garden wall. And I had a closer view of them at the station
                        this morning, when you ran off and deserted me."
                    He laughed,his big wholesome cheering laugh.
                    "I take good care not to see much of them socially."
                    "Afraid of the eternal feminine?"
                    "Yes, I suppose I am. I'm preparing to go into a
                        Brotherhood, as you probably don't know. And girls are
                        distracting."
                    I glanced at my companion with a new inquiry and interest.
                    "I didn't know," I said.
                    
                    "Yes; I'm spending my year in studies that I may never have
                        a chance for hereafter. I'm going into an order whose members work
                        hard."
                    He spoke as though he were planning a summer outing. I had not sat at meat
                        with a clergyman since the death of my parents broke up our old home in
                        Vermont, and my attitude toward the cloth was, I fear, one of antagonism
                        dating from those days.
                    "Well, I saw Pickering after all," I remarked.
                    "Yes, I saw him, too. What is it in his case, genius or good
                        luck?"
                    "I'm not a competent witness," I answered.
                        "I'll be frank with you: I don't like him; I
                        don't believe in him."
                    "Oh! I beg your pardon. I didn't know, of course."
                    "The subject is not painful to me," I hastened to add,
                        "though he was always rather thrust before me as an ideal back in
                        my youth, and you know how fatal that is. And then the gods of success have
                        opened all the gates for him."
                    "Yes,and yet"
                    "And yet" I repeated. Stoddard lifted a glass of sherry to
                        the light and studied it for a moment. He did not drink wine, but was not, I
                        found, afraid to look at it.
                    "And yet," he said, putting down the glass and speaking  slowly, "when the gates of good
                        fortune open too readily and smoothly, they may close sometimes rather too
                        quickly and snap a man's coat-tails. Please don't think
                        I'm going to afflict you with shavings of wisdom from the
                        shop-floor, but life wasn't intended to be too easy. The spirit of
                        man needs arresting and chastening. It doesn't flourish under too
                        much fostering or too much of what we call good luck. I'm disposed
                        to be afraid of good luck."
                    "I've never tried it," I said laughingly.
                    "I am not looking for it," and he spoke soberly.
                    I could not talk of Pickering with Batesthe masked beggar!in the room, so I
                        changed the subject.
                    "I suppose you impose penances, prescribe discipline for the girls
                        at St. Agatha's,an agreeable exercise of the priestly office, I
                        should say!"
                    His laugh was pleasant and rang true. I was liking him better the more I saw
                        of him.
                    "Bless you, no! I am not venerable enough. The Sisters attend to all
                        that,and a fine company of women they are!"
                    "But there must be obstinate cases. One of the young ladies confided
                        to meI tell you this in cloistral confidencethat she was being deported for
                        insubordination."
                    "Ah, that must be Olivia! Well, her case is different.  She is not one girl,she is many kinds of a
                        girl in one. I fear Sister Theresa lost her patience and hardened her
                        heart."
                    "I should like to intercede for Miss Armstrong," I
                        declared.
                    The surprise showed in his face, and I added:
                    "Pray don't misunderstand me. We met under rather curious
                        circumstances, Miss Armstrong and I."
                    "She is usually met under rather unconventional circumstances, I
                        believe," he remarked dryly. "My introduction to her came
                        through the kitten she smuggled into the alms box of the chapel. It took me
                        two days to find it."
                    He smiled ruefully at the recollection.
                    "She's a young woman of spirit," I declared
                        defensively. "She simply must find an outlet for the joy of
                        youth,paddling a canoe, chasing rabbits through the snow, placing kittens in
                        durance vile. But she's demure enough when she pleases,and a
                        satisfaction to the eye."
                    My heart warmed at the memory of Olivia. Verily the chaplain was rightshe was
                        many girls in one!
                    Stoddard dropped a lump of sugar into his coffee.
                    "Miss Devereux begged hard for her, but Sister Theresa
                        couldn't afford to keep her. Her influence on the other girls was
                        bad."
                    
                    "That's to Miss Devereux's credit," I
                        replied. "You needn't wait, Bates."
                    "Olivia was too popular. All the other girls indulged her. And
                        I'll concede that she's pretty. That gipsy face of hers
                        bodes ill to the hearts of menif she ever grows up."
                    "I shouldn't exactly call it a gipsy face; and how much
                        more should you expect her to grow? At twenty a woman's grown,
                        isn't she?"
                    He looked at me quizzically.
                    "Fifteen, you mean! Olivia Armstrongthat little witchthe kid that
                        has kept the school in turmoil all the fall?"
                    There was decided emphasis in his interrogations.
                    "I'm glad your glasses are full, or I should say"
                    There was, I think, a little heat for a moment on both sides.
                    "The wires are evidently crossed somewhere," he said
                        calmly. "My Olivia Armstrong is a droll child
                        from Cincinnati, whose escapades caused her to be sent home for discipline
                        to-day. She's a little mite who just about comes to the lapel of
                        your coat, her eyes are as black as midnight"
                    "Then she didn't talk to Pickering and his friends at the
                        station this morningthe prettiest girl in the 
                        worldgray hat, gray coat, blue eyes? You can have your
                        Olivia; but who, will you tell me, is mine?"
                    I pounded with my clenched hand on the table until the candles rattled and
                        sputtered.
                    Stoddard stared at me for a moment as though he thought I had lost my wits.
                        Then he lay back in his chair and roared. I rose, bending across the table
                        toward him in my eagerness. A suspicion had leaped into my mind, and my
                        heart was pounding as it roused a thousand questions.
                    "The blue-eyed young woman in gray? Bless your heart, man, Olivia is
                        a child; I talked to her myself on the platform. You were
                        talking to Miss Devereux. She isn't Olivia, she's
                        Marian!"
                    "Then, who is Marian Devereuxwhere does she livewhat is she doing
                        here?"
                    "Well," he laughed, "to answer your questions in
                        order, she's a young woman; her home is New York; she has no near
                        kinfolk except Sister Theresa, so she spends some of her time
                        here."
                    "Teachesmusic"
                    "Not that I ever heard of! She does a lot of things well,takes cups
                        in golf tournaments and is the nimblest hand at tennis you ever saw. Also,
                        she's a fine musician and plays the organ tremendously."
                    
                    "Well, she told me she was Olivia!" I
                        said.
                    "I should think she would, when you refused to meet her; when you
                        had ignored her and Sister Theresa,both of them among your
                        grandfather's best friends, and your nearest neighbors
                        here!"
                    "My grandfather be hanged! Of course I couldn't know her!
                        We can't live on the same earth. I'm in her way, hanging
                        on to this property here just to defeat her, when she's the finest
                        girl alive!"
                    He nodded gravely, his eyes bent upon me with sympathy and kindness. The past
                        events at Glenarm swept through my mind in kinetoscopic flashes, but the
                        girl in gray talking to Arthur Pickering and his friends at the Annandale
                        station, the girl in gray who had been an eavesdropper at the chapel,the
                        girl in gray with the eyes of blue! It seemed that a year passed before I
                        broke the silence.
                    "Where has she gone?" I demanded.
                    He smiled, and I was cheered by the mirth that showed in his face.
                    "Why, she's gone to Cincinnati, with Olivia Gladys
                        Armstrong," he said. "They're great chums, you
                        know!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    SISTER THERESA
                    There was further information I wished to obtain, and I did not blush to
                        pluck it from Stoddard before I let him go that night. Olivia Gladys
                        Armstrong lived in Cincinnati; her father was a wealthy physician at Walnut
                        Hills. Stoddard knew the family, and I asked questions about them, their
                        antecedents and place of residence that were not perhaps impertinent in view
                        of the fact that I had never consciously set eyes on their daughter in my
                        life. As I look back upon it now my information secured at that time,
                        touching the history and social position of the Armstrongs of Walnut Hills,
                        Cincinnati, seems excessive, but the curiosity which the Reverend Paul
                        Stoddard satisfied with so little trouble to himself was of immediate
                        interest and importance. As to the girl in gray I found him far more
                        difficult. She was Marian Devereux; she was a niece of Sister Theresa; her
                        home was in New York, with another aunt, her parents being dead; and she was
                        a frequent visitor at St. Agatha's.
                    
                    The wayward Olivia and she were on excellent terms, and when it seemed wisest
                        for that vivacious youngster to retire from school at the mid-year recess
                        Miss Devereux had accompanied her home, ostensibly for a visit, but really
                        to break the force of the blow. It was a pretty story, and enhanced my
                        already high opinion of Miss Devereux, while at the same time I admired the
                        unknown Olivia Gladys none the less.
                    When Stoddard left me I dug out of a drawer my copy of John Marshall
                        Glenarm's will and re-read it for the first time since Pickering
                        gave it to me in New York. There was one provision to which I had not given
                        a single thought, and when I had smoothed the thin type-written sheets upon
                        the table in my room I read it over and over again, construing it in a new
                        light with every reading.
                    
                        Provided, further, that in the event of the marriage of said John Glenarm
                            to the said Marian Devereux, or in the event of any promise or contract
                            of marriage between said persons within five years from the date of said
                            John Glenarm's acceptance of the provisions of this will, the
                            whole estate shall become the property absolutely of St.
                            Agatha's School at Annandale, Wabana County, Indiana, a
                            corporation under the laws of said state.
                    
                    "Bully for the old boy!" I muttered finally, folding the
                        copy with something akin to reverence for my grandfather's
                        shrewdness in closing so many doors upon  his
                        heirs. It required no lawyer to interpret this paragraph. If I could not
                        secure his estate by settling at Glenarm for a year I was not to gain it by
                        marrying the alternative heir. Here, clearly, was not one of those
                        situations so often contrived by novelists, in which the luckless heir
                        presumptive, cut off without a cent, weds the pretty cousin who gets the
                        fortune and they live happily together ever afterward. John Marshall Glenarm
                        had explicitly provided against any such frustration of his plans.
                    "Bully for you, John Marshall Glenarm!" I rose and bowed
                        low to his photograph.
                    On top of my mail next morning lay a small envelope, unstamped, and addressed
                        to me in a free running hand.
                    "Ferguson left it," explained Bates.
                    I opened and read: 
                            If convenient will Mr. Glenarm kindly look in at St.
                                Agatha's some day this week at four o'clock.
                                Sister Theresa wishes to see him.
                        
                    
                    I whistled softly. My feelings toward Sister Theresa had been those of utter
                        repugnance and antagonism. I had been avoiding her studiously and was not a
                        little surprised that she should seek an interview with me. Quite possibly
                        she wished to inquire how soon I expected to abandon Glenarm House; or
                        perhaps she wished to  admonish me as to the
                        perils of my soul. In any event I liked the quality of her note, and I was
                        curious to know why she sent for me; moreover, Marian Devereux was her niece
                        and that was wholly in the Sister's favor.
                    At four o'clock I passed into St. Agatha territory and rang the bell
                        at the door of the building where I had left Olivia the evening I found her
                        in the chapel. A Sister admitted me, led the way to a small receptionroom
                        where, I imagined, the visiting parent was received, and left me. I felt a
                        good deal like a school-boy who has been summoned before a severe master for
                        discipline. I was idly beating my hat with my gloves when a quick step
                        sounded in the hall and instantly a brown-clad figure appeared in the
                        doorway.
                    "Mr. Glenarm?"
                    It was a deep, rich voice, a voice of assurance, a voice, may I say? of the
                        world,a voice, too, may I add? of a woman who is likely to say what she
                        means without ado. The white band at her forehead brought into relief two
                        wonderful gray eyes that were alight with kindliness. She surveyed me a
                        moment, then her lips parted in a smile.
                    "This room is rather forbidding; if you will come with me"
                    She turned with an air of authority that was a part of her undeniable
                        distinction, and I was seated a moment  later
                        in a pretty sitting-room, whose windows gave a view of the dark wood and
                        frozen lake beyond.
                    "I'm afraid, Mr. Glenarm, that you are not disposed to be
                        neighborly, and you must pardon me if I seem to be pursuing you."
                    Her smile, her voice, her manner were charming. I had pictured her a sour old
                        woman, who had hidden away from a world that had offered her no pleasure.
                    "The apologies must all be on my side, Sister Theresa. I have been
                        greatly occupied since coming here,distressed and perplexed even."
                    "Our young ladies treasure the illusion that there are ghosts at
                        your house," she said, with a smile that disposed of the matter.
                    She folded her slim white hands on her knees and spoke with a simple
                        directness.
                    "Mr. Glenarm, there is something I wish to say to you, but I can say
                        it only if we are to be friends. I have feared you might look upon us here
                        as enemies."
                    "That is a strong word," I replied evasively.
                    "Let me say to you that I hope very much that nothing will prevent
                        your inheriting all that Mr. Glenarm wished you to have from him."
                    "Thank you; that is both kind and generous," I said with no
                        little surprise.
                    "Not in the least. I should be disloyal to your grandfather,  who was my friend and the friend of my
                        family, if I did not feel kindly toward you and wish you well. And I must
                        say for my niece"
                    "Miss Devereux." I found a certain pleasure in pronouncing
                        her name.
                    "Miss Devereux is very greatly disturbed over the good intentions of
                        your grandfather in placing her name in his will. You can doubtless
                        understand how uncomfortable a person of any sensibility would be under the
                        circumstances. I'm sorry you have never met her. She is a very
                        charming young woman whose happiness does not, I may say, depend on other
                        people's money."
                    She had never told, then! I smiled at the recollection of our interviews.
                    "I am sure that is true, Sister Theresa."
                    "Now I wish to speak to you about a matter of some delicacy. It is,
                        I understand perfectly, no business of mine how much of a fortune Mr.
                        Glenarm left. But this matter has been brought to my attention in a
                        disagreeable way. Your grandfather established this school; he gave most of
                        the money for these buildings. I had other friends who offered to
                        contribute, but he insisted on doing it all. But now Mr. Pickering insists
                        that the moneyor part of it at leastwas only a loan."
                    "Yes; I understand."
                    "Mr. Pickering tells me that he has no alternative in  the matter; that the law requires him to
                        collect this money as a debt due the estate."
                    "That is undoubtedly true, as a general proposition. He told me in
                        New York that he had a claim against you for fifty thousand
                        dollars."
                    "Yes; that is the amount. I wish to say to you, Mr. Glenarm, that if
                        it is necessary I can pay that amount."
                    "Pray do not trouble about it, Sister Theresa. There are a good many
                        things about my grandfather's affairs that I don't
                        understand, but I'm not going to see an old friend of his swindled.
                        There's more in all this than appears. My grandfather seems to have
                        mislaid or lost most of his assets before he died. And yet he had the
                        reputation of being a pretty cautious business man."
                    "The impression is abroad, as you must know, that your grandfather
                        concealed his fortune before his death. The people hereabouts believe so;
                        and Mr. Pickering, the executor, has been unable to trace it."
                    "Yes, I believe Mr. Pickering has not been able to solve the
                        problem," I said and laughed.
                    "But, of course, you and he will coperate in an effort to find the
                        lost property."
                    She bent forward slightly; her eyes, as they met mine, examined me with a
                        keen interest.
                    "Why shouldn't I be frank with you, Sister Theresa?  I have every reason for believing Arthur
                        Pickering a scoundrel. He does not care to coperate with me in searching for
                        this money. The fact is that he very much wishes to eliminate me as a factor
                        in the settlement of the estate. I speak carefully; I know exactly what I am
                        saying."
                    She bowed her head slightly and was silent for a moment. The silence was the
                        more marked from the fact that the hood of her habit concealed her face.
                    "What you say is very serious."
                    "Yes, and his offense is equally serious. It may seem odd for me to
                        be saying this to you when I am a stranger; when you may be pardoned for
                        having no very high opinion of me."
                    She turned her face to me,it was singularly gentle and refined,not a face to
                        associate with an idea of self-seeking or duplicity.
                    "I sent for you, Mr. Glenarm, because I had a very good opinion of
                        you; because, for one reason, you are the grandson of your
                        grandfather,"and the friendly light in her gray eyes drove away any
                        lingering doubt I may have had as to her sincerity. "I wished to
                        warn you to have a care for your own safety. I don't warn you
                        against Arthur Pickering alone, but against the countryside. The idea of a
                        hidden fortune is alluring; a mysterious house and a lost treasure make a
                        very enticing  combination. I fancy Mr.
                        Glenarm did not realize that he was creating dangers for the people he
                        wished to help."
                    She was silent again, her eyes bent meditatively upon me; then she spoke
                        abruptly.
                    "Mr. Pickering wishes to marry my niece."
                    "Ah! I have been waiting to hear that. I am exceedingly glad to know
                        that he has so noble an ambition. But Miss Devereux isn't
                        encouraging him, as near as I can make out. She refused to go to California
                        with his partyI happen to know that."
                    "That whole California episode would have been amusing if it had not
                        been ridiculous. Marian never had the slightest idea of going with him; but
                        she is sometimes a littleshall I say perverse?"
                    "Please do! I like the wordand the quality!"
                    "and Mr. Pickering's rather elaborate methods of
                        wooing"
                    "He's as heavy as lead!" I declared.
                    "amuse Marian up to a certain point; then they annoy her. He has
                        implied pretty strongly that the claim against me could be easily adjusted
                        if Marian marries him. But she will never marry him, whether she benefits by
                        your grandfather's will or however that may be!"
                    "I should say not," I declared with a warmth that caused
                        Sister Theresa to sweep me warily with those 
                        wonderful gray eyes. "But first he expects to find this fortune and
                        endow Miss Devereux with it. That is a part of the scheme. And my own
                        interest in the estate must be eliminated before he can bring that condition
                        about. But, Sister Theresa, I am not so easily got rid of as Arthur
                        Pickering imagines. My staying qualities, which were always weak in the eyes
                        of my family, have been braced up a trifle."
                    "Yes." I thought pleasure and hope were expressed in the
                        monosyllable, and my heart warmed to her.
                    "Sister Theresa, you and I are understanding each other much better
                        than I imagined we should,"and we both laughed, feeling a real
                        sympathy growing between us.
                    "Yes; I believe we are,"and the smile lighted her face
                        again.
                    "So I can tell you two things. The first is that Arthur Pickering
                        will never find my grandfather's lost fortune, assuming that any
                        exists. The second is that in no event will he marry your niece."
                    "You speak with a good deal of confidence," she said, and
                        laughed a low murmuring laugh. I thought there was relief in it.
                        "But I didn't suppose Marian's affairs interested
                        you."
                    "They don't, Sister Theresa. Her affairs are not of the
                        slightest importance,but she is!"
                    
                    There was frank inquiry in her eyes now.
                    "But you don't know her,you have missed your
                        opportunity."
                    "To be sure, I don't know her; but I know Olivia Gladys
                        Armstrong. She's a particular friend of mine,we have chased rabbits
                        together, and she told me a great deal. I have formed a very good opinion of
                        Miss Devereux in that way. Oh, that note you wrote about Olivia's
                        intrusions beyond the wall! I should thank you for it,but I really
                        didn't mind."
                    "A note? I never wrote you a note until to-day!"
                    "Well, some one did!" I said; then she smiled.
                    "Oh, that must have been Marian. She was always Olivia's
                        loyal friend!"
                    "I should say so!"
                    Sister Theresa laughed merrily.
                    "But you shouldn't have known Olivia,it
                        is unpardonable! If she played tricks upon you, you should not have taken
                        advantage of them to make her acquaintance. That wasn't fair to
                        me!"
                    "I suppose not! But I protest against this deportation. The
                        landscape hereabouts is only so much sky, snow and lumber without
                        her."
                    "We miss her, too," replied Sister Theresa. "We
                        have less to do!"
                    "And still I protest!" I declared, rising. "Sister
                             Theresa, I thank you with all my heart
                        for what you have said to me,for the disposition to say it! And this debt to
                        the estate is something, I promise you, that shall not trouble
                        you."
                    "Then there's a truce between us! We are not enemies at all
                        now, are we?"
                    "No; for Olivia's sake, at least, we shall be
                        friends."
                    I went home and studied the time-table.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    GOLDEN BUTTERFLIES
                    If you are one of those captious people who must verify by the calendar every
                        new moon you read of in a book, and if you are pained to discover the
                        historian lifting anchor and spreading sail contrary to the reckonings of
                        the nautical almanac, I beg to call your attention to these items from the
                        time-table of the Mid-Western and Southern Railway for December, 1901.
                    The south-bound express passed Annandale at exactly fifty-three minutes after
                        four P. M. It was scheduled to reach Cincinnati at eleven o'clock
                        sharp. These items are, I trust, sufficiently explicit.
                    To the student of morals and motives I will say a futher word. I had resolved
                        to practise deception in running away from Glenarm House to keep my promise
                        to Marian Devereux. By leaving I should forfeit my right to any part of my
                        grandfather's estate; I knew that and accepted the issue without
                        regret; but I had no intention of surrendering Glenarm House to Arthur
                        Pickering, particularly now that I realized how  completely I had placed myself in his trap. I felt, moreover, a duty to
                        my dead grandfather; andnot leastthe attacks of Morgan and the strange ways
                        of Bates had stirred whatever fighting blood there was in me. Pickering and
                        I were engaged in a sharp contest, and I was beginning to enjoy it to the
                        full, but I did not falter in my determination to visit Cincinnati, hoping
                        to return without my absence being discovered; so the next afternoon I began
                        preparing for my journey.
                    "Bates, I fear that I'm taking a severe cold and
                        I'm going to dose myself with whisky and qninine and go to bed. I
                        shan't want any dinner,nothing until you see me again."
                    I yawned and stretched myself with a groan.
                    "I'm very sorry, sir. Shan't I call a
                        doctor?"
                    "Not a bit of it. I'll sleep it off and be as lively as a
                        cricket in the morning."
                    At four o'clock I told him to carry some hot water and lemons to my
                        room; bade him an emphatic good night and locked the door as he left. Then I
                        packed my evening clothes in a suit-case. I threw the bag and a heavy ulster
                        from a window, swung myself out upon the limb of a big maple and let it bend
                        under me to its sharpest curve and then dropped lightly to the ground.
                    I passed the gate and struck off toward the village with a joyful sense of
                        freedom. When I reached the  station I sought
                        at once the south-bound platform, not wishing to be seen buying a ticket. A
                        few other passengers were assembling, but I saw no one I recognized. Number
                        six, I heard the agent say, was on time; and in a few minutes it came
                        roaring up. I bought a seat in the Washington sleeper and went into the
                        dining-car for supper. The train was full of people hurrying to various
                        ports for the holidays, but they had, I reflected, no advantage over me. I,
                        too, was bound on a definite errand, though my journey was, I imagined, less
                        commonplace in its character than the homing flight of most of my fellow
                        travelers.
                    I made myself comfortable and dozed and dreamed as the train plunged through
                        the dark. There was a wait, with much shifting of cars, where we crossed the
                        Wabash, then we sped on. It grew warmer as we drew southward, and the
                        conductor was confident we should reach Cincinnati on time. The through
                        passengers about me went to bed, and I was left sprawled out in my open
                        section, lurking on the shadowy frontier between the known world and
                        dreamland.
                    "We're running into Cincinnatiten minutes late,"
                        said the porter's voice; and in a moment I was in the vestibule and
                        out, hurrying to a hotel. At the St. Botolph I ordered a carriage and broke
                        all records changing my clothes. The time-table informed me that  the Northern express left at half-past one.
                        There was no reason why I should not be safe at Glenarm House by my usual
                        breakfast hour if all went well. To avoid loss of time in returning to the
                        station I paid the hotel charge and carried my bag away with me.
                    "Doctor Armstrong's residence? Yes, sir; I've
                        already taken one load there."
                    The carriage was soon climbing what seemed to be a mountain to the heights
                        above Cincinnati. To this day I associate Ohio's most interesting
                        city with a lonely carriage ride that seemed to be chiefly uphill, through a
                        region that was as strange to me as a trackless jungle in the wilds of
                        Africa. And my heart began to perform strange tattoos on my ribs. I was
                        going to the house of a gentleman who did not know of my existence, to see a
                        girl who was his guest, to whom I had never, as the conventions go, been
                        presented. It did not seem half so easy, now that I was well launched upon
                        the adventure.
                    I stopped the cabman just as he was about to enter an iron gateway whose
                        posts bore two great lamps.
                    "That is all right, sir. I can drive right in."
                    "But you needn't," I said, jumping out.
                        "Wait here."
                    Doctor Armstrong's residence was brilliantly lighted, and the
                        strains of a waltz stole across the lawn cheerily. Several carriages swept
                        past me as I followed the walk. 
                        
                            At the top of the stair, her height accented by her gown of white,
                                stood Marian Devereux.
                            
                                Page 230
                            
                        
                         I was arriving at a fashionable hourit was
                        nearly twelveand just how to effect an entrance without being thrown out as
                        an interloper was a formidable problem, now that I had reached the house. I
                        must catch my train home, and this left no margin for explanation to an
                        outraged host whose first impulse would very likely be to turn me over to
                        the police.
                    I made a detour and studied the house, seeking a door by which I could enter
                        without passing the unfriendly Gibraltar of a host and hostess on guard to
                        welcome belated guests.
                    A long conservatory filled with tropical plants gave me my opportunity.
                        Promenaders went idly through and out into another part of the house by an
                        exit I could not see. A handsome, spectacled gentleman opened a glass door
                        within a yard of where I stood, sniffed the air, and said to his companion,
                        as he turned back with a shrug into the conservatory:
                    "There's no sign of snow. It isn't Christmas
                        weather at all."
                    He strolled away through the palms, and I instantly threw off my ulster and
                        hat, cast them behind some bushes, and boldly opened the door and entered.
                    The ball-room was on the third floor, but the guests were straggling down to
                        supper, and I took my stand at the foot of the broad stairway and glanced up
                        carelessly,  as though waiting for some one.
                        It was a large and brilliant company and many a lovely face passed me as I
                        stood waiting. The very size of the gathering gave me security, and I
                        smoothed my gloves complacently.
                    The spectacled gentleman whose breath of night air had given me a valued hint
                        of the open conservatory door came now and stood beside me. He even put his
                        hand on my arm with intimate friendliness.
                    There was a sound of mirth and scampering feet in the hall above and then
                        down the steps, between the lines of guests arrested in their descent, came
                        a dark laughing girl in the garb of Little Red Riding Hood, amid general
                        applause and laughter.
                    "It's Olivia! She's won the wager!"
                        exclaimed the spectacled gentleman, and the girl, whose dark curls were
                        shaken about her face, ran up to us and threw her arms about him and kissed
                        him. It was a charming picture,the figures on the stairway, the pretty
                        graceful child, the eager, happy faces all about. I was too much interested
                        by this scene of the comedy to be uncomfortable.
                    Then, at the top of the stair, her height accented by her gown of white,
                        stood Marian Devereux, hesitating an instant, as a bird pauses before taking
                        wing, and then laughingly running between the lines to where Olivia  faced her in mock abjection. To the charm of
                        the girl in the woodland was added now the dignity of beautiful womanhood,
                        and my heart leaped at the thought that I had ever spoken to her, that I was
                        there because she had taunted me with the risk of coming.
                    Above, on the stair landing, a deep-toned clock began to strike midnight and
                        every one cried "Merry Christmas!" and
                        "Olivia's won!" and there was more handclapping,
                        in which I joined with good will.
                    Some one behind me was explaining what had just occurred. Olivia, the
                        youngest daughter of the house, had been denied a glimpse of the ball; Miss
                        Devereux had made a wager with her host that Olivia would appear before
                        midnight; and Olivia had defeated the plot against her, and gained the main
                        hall at the stroke of Christmas.
                    "Good night! Good night!" called Oliviathe real Oliviain
                        derision to the company, and turned and ran back through the applauding,
                        laughing throng.
                    The spectacled gentleman was Olivia's father, and he mockingly
                        rebuked Marian Devereux for having encouraged an infraction of parental
                        discipline, while she was twitting him upon the loss of his wager. Then her
                        eyes rested upon me for the first time. She smiled slightly, but continued
                        talking placidly to her host. The situation did not please me; I had not
                        traveled so  far and burglariously entered
                        Doctor Armstrong's house in quest of a girl with blue eyes merely
                        to stand by while she talked to another man.
                    I drew nearer, impatiently; and was conscious that four other young men in
                        white waistcoats and gloves quite as irreproachable as my own stood ready to
                        claim her the instant she was free. I did not propose to be thwarted by the
                        beaux of Cincinnati, so I stepped toward Doctor Armstrong.
                    "I beg your pardon, Doctor," I said with an assurance for
                        which I blush to this hour.
                    "All right, my boy; I, too, have been in Arcady!" he
                        exclaimed in cheerful apology, and she put her hand on my arm and I led her
                        away.
                    "He called me 'my boy,' so I must be passing
                        muster," I remarked, not daring to look at her.
                    "He's afraid not to recognize you. His inability to
                        remember faces is a town joke."
                    We reached a quiet corner of the great hall and I found a seat for her.
                    "You don't seem surprised to see me,you knew I would come.
                        I should have come across the world for this,for just this."
                    Her eyes were grave at once.
                    "Why did you come? I did not think you were so  foolish. This is allso wretched,so unfortunate. You
                        didn't know that Mr. PickeringMr. Pickering"
                    She was greatly distressed and this name came from her chokingly.
                    "Yes; what of him?" I laughed. "He is well on his
                        way to California,and without you!"
                    She spoke hurriedly, eagerly, bending toward me.
                    "Noyou don't knowyou don't understandhe's
                        here; he abandoned his California trip at Chicago; he telegraphed me to
                        expect himhereto-night! You must go at once,at once!"
                    "Ah, but you can't frighten me," I said, trying to
                        realize just what a meeting with Pickering in that house might mean.
                    "No,"she looked anxiously about,"they were to
                        arrive late, he and the Taylors; they know the Armstrongs quite well. They
                        may come at any moment now. Please go!"
                    "But I have only a few minutes myself,you wouldn't have me
                        sit them out in the station down town? There are some things I have come to
                        say, and Arthur Pickering and I are not afraid of each other!"
                    "But you must not meet him here! Think what that would mean to me!
                        You are very foolhardy, Mr. Glenarm. I had no idea you would come"
                    
                    "But you wished to try me,you challenged me."
                    "That wasn't me,it was Olivia,"
                        she laughed, more at ease, "I thought"
                    "Yes, what did you think?" I asked. "That I was
                        tied hand and foot by a dead man's money?"
                    "No, it wasn't that wretched fortune; but I enjoyed playing
                        the child before youI really love Oliviaand it seemed that the fairies were
                        protecting me and that I could play being a child to the very end of the
                        chapter without any real mischief coming of it. I wish I were
                        Olivia!" she declared, her eyes away from me.
                    "That's rather idle. I'm not really sure yet what
                        your name is, and I don't care. Let's imagine that we
                        haven't any names,I'm sure my name isn't of any
                        use, and I'll be glad to go nameless all my days if only"
                    "If only" she repeated idly, opening and closing her fan.
                        It was a frail blue trifle, painted in golden butterflies.
                    "There are so many 'if onlies' that I hesitate to
                        choose; but I will venture one. If only you will come back to St.
                        Agatha's! Not to-morrow, or the next day, but, say, with the first
                        bluebirds. I believe they are the harbingers up there."
                    Her very ease was a balm to my spirit; she was now  a veritable daughter of repose. One arm in its long white
                        sheath lay quiet in her lap; her right hand held the golden butterflies
                        against the soft curve of her cheek. A collar of pearls clasped her throat
                        and accented the clear girlish lines of her profile. I felt the appeal of
                        her youth and purity. It was like a cry in my heart, and I forgot the dreary
                        house by the lake, and Pickering and the weeks within the stone walls of my
                        prison.
                    "The friends who know me best never expect me to promise to be
                        anywhere at a given time. I can't tell; perhaps I shall follow the
                        bluebirds to Indiana; but why should I, when I can't play being
                        Olivia any more?"
                    "No! I am very dull. That note of apology you wrote from the school
                        really fooled me. But I have seen the real Olivia now. I don't want
                        you to go too farnot where I can't followthis flight I shall hardly
                        dare repeat."
                    Her lips closedlike a rose that had gone back to be a bud againand she
                        pondered a moment, slowly freeing and imprisoning the golden butterflies.
                    "You have risked a fortune, Mr. Glenarm, very, very foolishly,and
                        moreif you are found here. Why, Olivia must have recognized you! She must
                        have seen you often across the wall."
                    
                    "But I don't careI'm not staying at that ruin up
                        there for money. My grandfather meant more to me than that"
                    "Yes; I believe that is so. He was a dear old gentleman; and he
                        liked me because I thought his jokes adorable. My father and he had known
                        each other. But there wasno expectationno wish to profit by his friendship.
                        My name in his will is a great embarrassment, a source of real annoyance.
                        The newspapers have printed dreadful pictures of me. That is why I say to
                        you, quite frankly, that I wouldn't accept a cent of Mr.
                        Glenarm's money if it were offered me; and that is
                        why,"and her smile was a flash of spring,"I want you to
                        obey the terms of the will and earn your fortune."
                    She closed the fan sharply and lifted her eyes to mine.
                    "But there isn't any fortune! It's all a myth, a
                        joke," I declared.
                    "Mr. Pickering doesn't seem to think so. He had every
                        reason for believing that Mr. Glenarm was a very rich man. The property
                        can't be found in the usual places,banks, safety vaults, and the
                        like. Then where do you think it is,or better, where do you think Mr.
                        Pickering thinks it is?"
                    "But assuming that it's buried up there by the lake like a
                        pirate's treasure, it isn't Pickering's if he
                        finds  it. There are laws to protect even the
                        dead from robbery!" I concluded hotly.
                    "How difficult you are! Suppose you should fall from a boat, or be
                        shotaccidentallythen I might have to take the fortune after all; and Mr.
                        Pickering might think of an easier way of getting it than by"
                    "Stealing it! Yes, but you wouldn't!"
                    Half-past twelve struck on the stairway and I started to my feet.
                    "You wouldn't" I repeated.
                    "I might, you know!"
                    "I must go,but not with that, not with any hint of
                        that,please!"
                    "If you let him defeat you, if you fail to spend your year
                        there,we'll overlook this one lapse,"she looked me
                        steadily in the eyes, wholly guiltless of coquetry but infinitely
                        kind,"then,"
                    She paused, opened the fan, held it up to the light and studied the golden
                        butterflies.
                    "Yes"
                    "Thenlet me seeoh, I shall never chase another rabbit as long as I
                        live! Now goquicklyquickly!"
                    "But you haven't told me when and where it was we met the
                        first time. Please!"
                    She laughed, but urged me away with her eyes.
                    "I shan't do it! It isn't proper for me to
                        remember,  if your memory is so poor. I wonder
                        how it would seem for us to meet just onceand be introduced! Good night! You
                        really came. You are a gentleman of your word, Squire Glenarm!"
                    She gave me the tips of her fingers without looking at me.
                    A servant came in hurriedly.
                    "Miss Devereux, Mr. and Mrs. Taylor and Mr. Pickering are in the
                        drawing-room."
                    "Yes; very well; I will come at once."
                    Then to me:
                    "They must not see youthere, that way!" and she stood in
                        the door, facing me, her hands lightly touching the frame as though to
                        secure my way.
                    I turned for a last look and saw her waitingher eyes bent gravely upon me,
                        her arms still half-raised, barring the door; then she turned swiftly away
                        into the hall.
                    Outside I found my hat and coat, and wakened my sleeping driver. He drove
                        like mad into the city, and I swung upon the north-bound sleeper just as it
                        was drawing out of the station.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    I MEET AN OLD FRIEND
                    When I reached the house I found, to my astonishment, that the window I had
                        left open as I scrambled out the night before was closed. I dropped my bag
                        and crept to the front door, thinking that if Bates had discovered my
                        absence it was useless to attempt any further deception. I was amazed to
                        find the great doors of the main entrance flung wide, and in real alarm I
                        ran through the hall and back to the library.
                    The nearest door stood open, and, as I peered in, a curious scene disclosed
                        itself. A few of the large cathedral candles still burned brightly in
                        several places, their flame rising strangely in the gray morning light.
                        Books had been taken from the shelves and scattered everywhere, and sharp
                        implements had cut ugly gashes in the shelving. The drawers containing
                        sketches and photographs had been pulled out and their contents thrown about
                        and trampled under foot.
                    The house was as silent as a tomb, but as I stood on the threshold trying to
                        realize what had happened, something stirred by the fireplace and I crept
                        forward, listening, until I stood by the long table beneath the great  chandelier. Again I heard a sound as of some
                        animal waking and stretching, followed by a moan that was undoubtedly human.
                        Then the hands of a man clutched the farther edge of the table, and slowly
                        and evidently with infinite difficulty a figure rose and the dark face of
                        Bates, with eyes blurred and staring strangely, confronted me
                    He drew his body to its height, and leaned heavily upon the table. I snatched
                        a candle and bent toward him to make sure my eyes were not tricking me.
                    "Mr. Glenarm! Mr. Glenarm!" he exclaimed in broken
                        whispers. "It is Bates, sir."
                    "What have you done; what has happened?" I demanded.
                    He put his hand to his head uncertainly and gaped as though trying to gather
                        his wits.
                    He was evidently dazed by whatever had occurred, and I sprang around and
                        helped him to a couch. He would not lie down but sat up, staring and passing
                        his hand over his head. It was rapidly growing lighter, and I saw a purple
                        and black streak across his temple where a bludgeon of some sort had struck
                        him.
                    "What does this mean, Bates? Who has been in the house?"
                    "I can't tell you, Mr. Glenarm."
                    "Can't tell me! You will tell me or go to jail!  There's been mischief done here and
                        I don't intend to have any nonsense about it from you.
                        Well?"
                    He was clearly suffering, but in my anger at the sight of the wreck of the
                        room I grasped his shoulder and shook him roughly.
                    "It was early this morning," he faltered, "about
                        two o'clock, I heard noises in the lower part of the house. I came
                        down thinking likely it was you, and remembering that you had been sick
                        yesterday"
                    "Yes, go on."
                    The thought of my truancy was no balm to my conscience just then.
                    "As I came into the hall, I saw lights in the library. As you
                        weren't down last night the room hadn't been lighted at
                        all. I heard steps, and some one tapping with a hammer"
                    "Yes; a hammer. Go on!"
                    It was, then, the same old story! The war had been carried openly into the
                        house, but Bates,just why should any one connected with the conspiracy
                        injure Bates, who stood so near to Pickering, its leader? The fellow was
                        undoubtedly hurt,there was no mistaking the lump on his head. He spoke with
                        a painful difficulty that was not assumed, I felt increasingly sure, as he
                        went on.
                    "I saw a man pulling out the books and tapping the  inside of the shelves. He was working very
                        fast. And the next thing I knew he let in another man through one of the
                        terrace doors,the one there that still stands a little open."
                    He flinched as he turned slightly to indicate it, and his face twitched with
                        pain.
                    "Never mind that; tell the rest of your story."
                    "Then I ran in, grabbed one of the big candelabra from the table,
                        and went for the nearest man. They were about to begin on the chimney-breast
                        there,it was Mr. Glenarm's pride in all the house,and that accounts
                        for my being there in front of the fireplace. They rather got the best of
                        me, sir."
                    "Clearly; I see they did. You had a hand-to-hand fight with them,
                        and being two to one"
                    "No; there were two of usdon't you
                        understand, two of us! There was another man who came running in from
                        somewhere, and he took sides with me. I thought at first it was you. The
                        robbers thought so, too, for one of them yelled, 'Great God;
                        it's Glenarm!' just like that. But it wasn't you,
                        but quite another peron."
                    "That's a good story so far; and then what
                        happened?"
                    "I don't remember much more, except that some one soused me
                        with water that helped my head considerably, 
                        and the next thing I knew I was staring across the table there at
                        you."
                    "Who were these men, Bates? Speak up quickly!"
                    My tone was peremptory. Here was, I felt, a crucial moment in our relations.
                    "Well," he began deliberately, "I dislike to make
                        charges against a fellow man, but I strongly suspect one of the men of
                        being"
                    "Yes! Tell the whole truth or it will be the worse for
                        you."
                    "I very much fear one of them was Ferguson, the gardener over the
                        way. I'm disappointed in him, sir."
                    "Very good; and now for the other one."
                    "I didn't get my eyes on him. I had closed with Ferguson
                        and we were having quite a lively time of it when the other one came in;
                        then the man who came to my help mixed us all up,he was a very lively
                        person,and what became of Ferguson and the rest of it I don't know.
                    There was food for thought in what he said. He had taken punishment in
                        defense of my propertythe crack on his head was undeniableand I could not
                        abuse him or question his veracity with any grace; not, at least, without
                        time for investigation and study. However, I ventured to ask him one
                        question.
                    
                    "If you were guessing, shouldn't you think it quite likely
                        that Morgan was the other man?"
                    He met my gaze squarely.
                    "I think it wholly possible, Mr. Glenarm."
                    "And the man who helped youwho in the devil was he?"
                    "Bless me, I don't know. He disappeared. I'd like
                        mightily to see him again."
                    "Humph! Now you'd better do something for your head.
                        I'll summon the village doctor if you say so."
                    "No; thank you, sir. I'll take care of it myself."
                    "And now we'll keep quiet about this. Don't
                        mention it or discuss it with any one."
                    "Certainly not, sir."
                    He rose, and staggered a little, but crossed to the broad mantel-shelf in the
                        great chimney-breast, rested his arm upon it for a moment, passed his hand
                        over the dark wood with a sort of caress, then bent his eyes upon the floor
                        littered with books and drawings and papers torn from the cabinets and all
                        splashed with tallow and wax from the candles. The daylight had increased
                        until the havoc wrought by the night's visitors was fully apparent.
                        The marauders had made a sorry mess of the room, and I thought
                        Bates' lip quivered as he saw the wreck.
                    
                    "It would have been a blow to Mr. Glenarm; the room was his
                        pride,his pride, sir."
                    He went out toward the kitchen, and I ran up stairs to my own room. I cursed
                        the folly that had led me to leave my window open, for undoubtedly Morgan
                        and his new ally, St. Agatha's gardener, had taken advantage of it
                        to enter the house. Quite likely, too, they had observed my absence, and
                        this would undoubtedly be communicated to Pickering. I threw open my door
                        and started back with an exclamation of amazement.
                    Standing at my chiffonnier, between two windows, was a man, clad in a
                        bath-gownmy own, I saw with furyhis back to me, the razor at his face,
                        placidly shaving himself.
                    Without turning he addressed me, quite coolly and casually, as though his
                        being there was the most natural thing in the world.
                    "Good morning, Mr. Glenarm! Rather damaging evidence, that costume.
                        I suppose it's the custom of the country for gentlemen in evening
                        clothes to go out by the window and return by the door. You might think the
                        other way round preferable."
                    "Larry!" I shouted.
                    "Jack!"
                    "Kick that door shut and lock it," he commanded, in  a sharp, severe tone that I remembered
                        well-and just now welcomedin him.
                    "How, why and when?"
                    "Never mind about me. I'm herethrown the enemy off for a
                        few days; and you give me lessons in current history first, while I climb
                        into my armor. Pray pardon the informality"
                    He seized a broom and began work upon a pair of trousers to which mud and
                        briers clung tenaciously. His coat and hat lay on a chair, they, too, much
                        the worse for rough wear.
                    "There was never any use in refusing to obey Larry's
                        orders, and as he got into his clothes I gave him in as few words as
                        possible the chief incidents that had marked my stay at Glenarm House. He
                        continued dressing with care, helping himself to a shirt and collar from my
                        chiffonnier and choosing with unfailing eye the best tie in my collection.
                        Now and then he asked a question tersely, or, again, he laughed or swore
                        direly in Gaelic. When I had concluded the story of Pickering's
                        visit, and of the conversation I overheard between the executor and Bates in
                        the church porch, Larry wheeled round with the scarf half-tied in his
                        fingers and surveyed me commiseratingly.
                    "And you didn't rush them both on the spot and have it
                        out?"
                    
                    "No. I was too much taken aback, for one thing"
                    "I dare say you were!"
                    "And for another I didn't think the time ripe. I'm
                        going to beat that fellow, Larry, but I want him to show his hand fully
                        before we come to a smash-up. I know as much about the house and its secrets
                        as he does, that's one consolation. Sometimes I don't
                        believe there's a shilling here, and again I'm sure
                        there's a big stake in it. The fact that Pickering is risking so
                        much to find what's supposed to be hidden here is pretty fair
                        evidence that something's buried on the place."
                    "Possibly, but they're giving you a lively boycott. Now
                        where in the devil have you been?"
                    "Well," I began and hesitated. I had not mentioned Marian
                        Devereux and this did not seem the time for confidences of that sort.
                    He took a cigarette from his pocket and lighted it.
                    "Bah, these women! Under the terms of your revered
                        grandfather's will you have thrown away all your rights. It looks
                        to me, as a member of the Irish bar in bad standing, as though you had
                        delivered yourself up to the enemy, so far as the legal situation is
                        concerned How does it strike you?"
                    "Of course I've forfeited my rights. But I don't
                        mean that any one shall know it yet a while."
                    "My lad, don't deceive yourself. Everybody round  here will know it before night. You ran off,
                        left your window open invitingly, and two gentlemen who meditated breaking
                        in found that they needn't take the trouble. One came in through
                        your own room, noting, of course, your absence, let in his friend below, and
                        tore up the place regrettably."
                    "Yes, but how did you get here?if you don't mind
                        telling."
                    "It's a short story. That little chap from Scotland Yard,
                        who annoyed me so much in New York and drove me to Mexicofor which may he
                        dwell for ever in fiery tormenthas never given up. I shook him off, though,
                        at Indianapolis three days ago. I bought a ticket for Pittsburg with him at
                        my elbow. I suppose he thought the chase was growing tame, and that the
                        farther east he could arrest me the nearer I should be to a British consul
                        and tide-water. I went ahead of him into station and out to the Pittsburg
                        sleeper. I dropped my bag into my sectionif that's what they call
                        it in your atrocious American languagelooked out and saw him coming along
                        the platform. Just then the car began to move,they were shunting it about to
                        attach a sleeper that had been brought in from Louisville, and my carriage,
                        or whatever you call it, went skimming out of the sheds into a yard where
                        everything seemed to be most noisy and complex. I dropped off in the dark
                             just before they began to haul the
                        carriage back. A long train of empty goods wagons was just pulling out and I
                        threw my bag into a wagon and climbed after it. We kept going for an hour or
                        so until I was thoroughly lost, then I took advantage of a stop at a place
                        that seemed to be the end of terrestrial things, got out and started across
                        country. I expressed my bag to you the other day from a town that rejoiced
                        in the cheering name of Kokomo, just to get rid of it. I walked into
                        Annandale about midnight, found this medieval marvel through the kindness of
                        the station-master and was reconnoitering with my usual caution when I saw a
                        gentleman romantically entering through an open window."
                    Larry paused to light a fresh cigarette.
                    "You always did have a way of arriving opportunely. Go on!"
                    "It pleased my fancy to follow him; and by the time I had studied
                        your diggings here a trifle, things began to happen below. It sounded like a
                        St. Patrick's Day celebration in an Irish village, and I went down
                        at a gallop to see if there was any chance of breaking in. Have you seen the
                        room? Well,"he gave several turns to his right wrist, as though to
                        test it,"we all had a jolly time there by the fireplace. Another
                        chap had got in somewhere, so there were two of them. Your manI suppose
                        it's your manwas defending himself 
                        gallantly with a large thing of brass that looked like the pipes of a grand
                        organand I sailed in with a chair. My presence seemed to surprise the
                        attacking party, who evidently thought I was you,flattering, I must say, to
                        me!"
                    "You undoubtedly saved Bates' life and prevented the
                        rifling of the house. And after you had poured water on Bates,he's
                        the servant,you came up here"
                    "That's the way of it."
                    "You're a brick, Larry Donovan. There's only one
                        of you; and now"
                    "And now, John Glenarm, we've got to get down to
                        business,or you must. As for me, after a few hours of your enlivening
                        society"
                    "You don't go a step until we go together,no, by the beard
                        of the prophet! I've a fight on here and I'm going to win
                        if I die in the struggle, and you've got to stay with me to the
                        end."
                    "But under the will you dare not take a boarder."
                    "Of course I dare! That will's as though it had never been
                        as far as I'm concerned. My grandfather never expected me to sit
                        here alone and be murdered. John Marshall Glenarm wasn't a fool
                        exactly!"
                    "No, but a trifle queer, I should say. I don't have to tell
                        you, old man, that this situation appeals to me  it's my kind of a job. If it weren't that the notounds
                        are at my heels I'd like to stay with you, but you have enough
                        trouble on hands without opening the house to an attack by my
                        enemies."
                    "Stop talking about it. I don't propose to be deserted by
                        the only friend I have in the world when I'm up to my eyes in
                        trouble. Let's go down and get some coffee."
                    We found Bates trying to remove the evidences of the night's
                        struggle. He had fastened a cold pack about his head and limped slightly;
                        otherwise he was the samesilent and inexplicable.
                    Daylight had not improved the appearance of the room. Several hundred books
                        lay scattered over the floor, and the shelves which had held them were
                        hacked and broken.
                    "Bates, if you can give us some coffee? Let the room go for the
                        present."
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "And Bates"
                    He paused and Larry's keen eyes were bent sharply upon him.
                    "Mr. Donovan is a friend who will be with me for some time.
                        We'll fix up his room later in the day."
                    He limped out, Larry's eyes following him.
                    
                    "What do you think of that fellow?" I asked.
                    Larry's face wore a puzzled look.
                    "What do you call him, Bates? He's a plucky
                        felow."
                    Larry picked up from the hearth the big candelabrum with which Bates had
                        defended himself. It was badly bent and twisted, and Larry grinned.
                    "The fellow who went out through the front door probably
                        isn't feeling very well to-day. Your man was swinging this thing
                        like a windmill."
                    "I can't understand it," I muttered. "I
                        can't, for the life of me, see why he should have given battle to
                        the enemy. They all belong to Pickering, and Bates is the biggest rascal of
                        the bunch."
                    "Humph! we'll consider that later. And would you mind
                        telling me what kind of a tallow foundry this is? I never saw so many
                        candlesticks in my life. I seem to taste tallow. I had no letters from you,
                        and I supposed you were loafing quietly in a grim farm-house, dying of
                        ennui, and here you are in an establishment that ought to be the imperial
                        residence of an Eskimo chief. Possibly you have crude petroleum for soup and
                        whipped salad-oil for dessert. I declare, a man living here ought to attain
                        a high candle-power of luminosity It's perfectly immense."
                        He stared and laughed. "And hidden, treasure, and night attacks,
                        and young virgins  in the middle distance,yes,
                        I'd really like to stay a while."
                    As we ate breakfast I filled in gaps I had left in my hurried narrative, with
                        relief that I can not describe filling my heart as I leaned again upon the
                        sympathy of an old and trusted friend.
                    As Bates came and went I marked Larry's scrutiny of the man. I
                        dismissed him as soon as possible that we might talk freely.
                    "Take it up and down and all around, what do you think of all
                        this?" I asked.
                    Larry was silent for a moment; he was not given to careless speech in
                        personal matters.
                    "There's more to it than frightening you off or getting
                        your grandfother's money. It's my guess that
                        there's something in this house that somebodyPickering supposedlyis
                        very anxious to find."
                    "Yes; I begin to think so. He could come in here legally if it were
                        merely a matter of searching for lost assets."
                    "Yes; and whatever it is it must be well hidden. As I remember, your
                        grandfather died in June. You got a letter calling you home in
                        October"
                    "It was sent out blindly, with not one chance in a hundred that it
                        would ever reach me."
                    "To be sure. You were a wanderer on the face of the  earth, and there was nobody in America to
                        look after your interests. You may be sure that the place was thoroughly
                        ransacked while you were sailing home. I'll wager you the best
                        dinner you ever ate that there's more at stake than your
                        grandfather's money. The situation is inspiring. I grow interested.
                        I'm almost persuaded to linger."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    A TRIPLE ALLIANCE
                    Larry refused to share my quarters and chose a room for himself, which Bates
                        fitted up out of the house stores. I did not know what Bates might surmise
                        about Larry, but he accepted my friend in good part, as a guest who would
                        remain indefinitely. He seemed to interest Larry, whose eyes followed the
                        man inquiringly. When we went into Bates' room on our tour of the
                        house, Larry scanned the books on a little shelf with something more than a
                        casual eye. There were exactly four volumes,Shakespeare's Comedies,
                            The Faerie Queen, Sterne's Sentimental Journey and Yeats' Land of
                            Heart's Desire.
                    
                    "A queer customer, Larry. Nobody but my grandfather could ever have
                        discovered himhe found him up in Vermont."
                    "I suppose his being a bloomin' Yankee naturally accounts
                        for this," remarked Larry, taking from under the pillow of the
                        narrow iron bed a copy of the Dublin Freeman's
                        Journal.
                    
                    "It is a little odd," I said. "But if you found a
                        Yiddish newspaper or an Egyptian papyrus under his pillow I should not be
                        surprised."
                    "Nor I," said Larry. "I'll wager that not
                        anothe shelf in this part of the world contains exactly that collection of
                        books, and nothing else. You will notice that there was once a book-plate in
                        each of these volumes and that it's been scratched out with
                        care."
                    On a small table were pen and ink and a curious much-worn portfolio.
                    "He always gets the mail first, doesn't he?" asked
                        Larry.
                    "Yes, I believe he does."
                    "I thought so; and I'll swear he never got a letter from
                        Vermont in his life."
                    When we went down Bates was limping about the library, endeavoring to restore
                        order.
                    "Bates," I said to him, "you are a very curious
                        person. I have had a thousand and one opinions about you since I came here,
                        and I still don't make you out."
                    He turned from the shelves, a defaced volume in his hands.
                    "Yes, sir. It was a good deal that way with your lamented
                        grandfather. He always said I puzzled him."
                    Larry, safe behind the fellow's back, made no attempt to conceal a
                        smile.
                    
                    "I want to thank you for your heroic efforts to protect the house
                        last night. You acted nobly, and I must confess, Bates, that I
                        didn't think it was in you. You've got the right stuff in
                        you; I'm only sorry that there are black pages in your record that
                        I can't reconcile with your manly conduct of last night. But
                        we've got to come to an understanding."
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "The most outrageous attacks have been made on me since I came here.
                        You know what I mean well enough. Mr. Glenarm never intended that I should
                        sit down in his house and be killed or robbed. He was the gentlest being
                        that ever lived, and I'm going to fight for his memory and to
                        protect his property from the scoundrels who have plotted against me. I hope
                        you follow me."
                    "Yes, Mr. Glenarm." He was regarding me attentively. His
                        lips quavered, perhaps from weakness, for he certainly looked ill.
                    "Now I offer you your choice,either to stand loyally by me and my
                        grandfather's house or to join these scoundrels Arthur Pickering
                        has hired to drive me out. I'm not going to bribe you,I
                        don't offer you a cent for standing by me, but I won't
                        have a traitor in the house, and if you don't like me or my terms I
                        want you to go and go now."
                    He straightened quickly,his eyes lighted and the  color crept into his face. I had never before seen him appear so like a
                        human being.
                    "Mr. Glenarm, you have been hard on me; there have been times when
                        you have been very unjust"
                    "Unjust,my God, what do you expect me to take from you!
                        Haven't I known that you were in league with Pickering?
                        I'm not as dull as I look, and after your interview with Pickering
                        in the chapel porch you can't convince me that you were faithful to
                        my interests at that time."
                    He started and gazed at me wonderingly. I had had no intention of using the
                        chapel porch interview at this time, but it leaped out of me uncontrollably.
                    "I suppose, sir," he began brokenly, "that I can
                        hardly persuade you that I meant no wrong on that occasion."
                    "You certainly can not,and it's safer for you not to try.
                        But I'm willing to let all that go as a reward for your work last
                        night. Make your choice now; stay here and stop your spying or clear out of
                        Annandale within an hour."
                    He took a step toward me; the table was between us and he drew quite near but
                        stood clear of it, erect until there was something almost soldierly and
                        commanding in his figure.
                    "By God, I will stand by you, John
                        Glenarm!" he  said, and struck the
                        table smartly with his clenched hand.
                    He flushed instantly, and I felt the blood mounting into my own face as we
                        gazed at each other,he, Bates, the servant, and I, his master! He had always
                        addressed me so punctiliously with the "sir" of respect
                        that his declaration of fealty, spoken with so sincere and vigorous an air
                        of independence, and with the bold emphasis of the oath, held me spellbound,
                        staring at him. The silence was broken by Larry, who sprang forward and
                        grasped Bates' hand.
                    "I, too, Bates," I said, feeling my heart leap with liking,
                        even with admiration for the real manhood that seemed to transfigure this
                        hireling,this fellow whom I had charged with most infamous treachery, this
                        servant who had cared for my needs in so humble a spirit of subjection.
                    The knocker on the front door sounded peremptorily, and Bates turned away
                        without another word, and admitted Stoddard, who came in hurriedly.
                    "Merry Christmas!" in his big hearty tones was hardly
                        consonant with the troubled look on his face. I introduced him to Larry and
                        asked him to sit down.
                    "Pray excuse our disorder,we didn't do it for fun; it was
                        one of Santa Claus' tricks."
                    He stared about wonderingly.
                    
                    "So you caught it, too, did you?"
                    "To be sure. You don't mean to say that they raided the
                        chapel?"
                    "That's exactly what I mean to say. When I went into the
                        church for my early service I found that some one had ripped off the
                        wainscoting in a half a dozen places and even pried up the altar.
                        It's the most outrageous thing I ever knew. You've heard
                        of the proverbial poverty of the church mouse,what do you suppose anybody
                        could want to raid a simple little country chapel for? And more curious yet,
                        the church plate was untouched, though the closet where it's kept
                        was upset, as though the miscreants had been looking for something they
                        didn't find."
                    Stoddard was greatly disturbed, and gazed about the topsy-turvy library with
                        growing indignation.
                    We drew together for a council of war. Here was an opportunity to enlist a
                        new recruit on my side. I already felt stronger by reason of
                        Larry's accession; as to Bates, my mind was still numb and
                        bewildered.
                    "Larry, there's no reason why we shouldn't join
                        forces with Mr. Stoddard, as he seems to be affected by this struggle. We
                        owe it to him and the school to put him on guard, particularly since we know
                        that Ferguson's with the enemy."
                    
                    "Yes, certainly," said Larry.
                    He always liked or disliked new people unequivocally, and I was glad to see
                        that he surveyed the big clergyman with approval.
                    "I'll begin at the beginning," I said,
                        "and tell you the whole story."
                    He listened quietly to the end while I told him of my experience with Morgan,
                        of the tunnel into the chapel crypt, and finally of the affair in the night
                        and our interview with Bates.
                    "I feel like rubbing my eyes and accusing you of reading
                        penny-horrors," he said. "That doesn't sound like
                        the twentieth century in Indiana."
                    "But Ferguson,you'd better have a care in his direction.
                        Sister Theresa"
                    "Bless your heart! Ferguson's gonewithout notice. He got
                        his traps and skipped without saying a word to any one."
                    "We'll hear from him again, no doubt. Now, gentlemen, I
                        believe we understand one another. I don't like to draw you, either
                        one of you, into my private affairs"
                    The big chaplain laughed.
                    "Glenarm,"prefixes went out of commission quickly that
                        morning,"if you hadn't let me in on this I  should never have got over it. Why, this is a
                        page out of the good old times! Bless me! I never appreciated your
                        grandfather! I must runI have another service. But I hope you gentlemen will
                        call on me, day or night, for anything I can do to help you. Please
                        don't forget me. I had the record once for putting the
                        shot."
                    "Why not give our friend escort through the tunnel?" asked
                        Larry. "I'll not hesitate to say that I'm dying
                        to see it."
                    "To be sure!" We went down into the cellar, and poked over
                        the lantern and candlestick collections, and I pointed out the exact spot
                        where Morgan and I had indulged in our revolver duel. It was fortunate that
                        the plastered walls of the cellar showed clearly the cuts and scars of the
                        pistol-balls or I fear my story would have fallen on incredulous ears.
                    The debris I had piled upon the false block of stone in the cellar lay as I
                        had left it, but the three of us quickly freed the trap. The humor of the
                        thing took strong hold of my new allies, and while I was getting a lantern
                        to light us through the passage Larry sat on the edge of the trap and howled
                        a few bars of a wild Irish jig. We set forth at once and found the passage
                        unchanged. When the cold air blew in upon us I paused.
                    "Have you gentlemen the slightest idea of where you are?"
                    
                    "We must be under the school-grounds, I should say,"
                        replied Stoddard.
                    "We're exactly under the stone wall. Those tall posts at
                        the gate are a scheme for keeping fresh air in the passage."
                    "You certainly have all the modern improvements," observed
                        Larry, and I heard him chuckling all the way to the crypt door.
                    When I pushed the panel open and we stepped out into the crypt Stoddard
                        whistled and Larry swore softly.
                    "It must be for something!" exclaimed the
                        chaplain. "You don't suppose Mr. Glenarm built a secret
                        passage just for the fun of it, do you? He must have had some purpose. Why,
                        I sleep out here within forty yards of where we stand and I never had the
                        slightest idea of this."
                    "But other people seem to know of it," observed Larry.
                    "To be sure; the curiosity of the whole countryside was undoubtedly
                        piqued by the building of Glenarm House. The fact that workmen were brought
                        from a distance was in itself enough to arouse interest. Morgan seems to
                        have discovered the passage without any trouble."
                    "More likely it was Ferguson. He was the sexton of  the church and had a chance to
                        investigate," said Stoddard. "And now, gentlemen, I must
                        go to my service. I'll see you again before the day is
                        over."
                    "And we make no confidences!" I admonished.
                    "'Sdeath!I believe that is the proper expression under all
                        the circumstances." And the Reverend Paul Stoddard laughed, clasped
                        my hand and went up into the chapel vestry.
                    I closed the door in the wainscoting and hung the map back in place.
                    We went up into the little chapel and found a small company of worshipers
                        assembled,a few people from the surrounding farms, hall a dozen Sisters
                        sitting somberly near the chancel and the school servants.
                    Stoddard came out into the chancel, lighted the altar tapers and began the
                        Anglican communion office. I had forgotten what a church service was like;
                        and Larry, I felt sure, had not attended church since the last time his
                        family had dragged him to choral vespers.
                    It was comforting to know that here was, at least-one place of peace within
                        reach of Glenarm House. But I may be forgiven, I hope, if my mind wandered
                        that morning, and my thoughts played hide-and-seek with memory. For it was
                        here, in the winter twilight, that Marian Devereux had poured out her
                        girl's heart in a great flood of melody. I was glad that the organ
                        was  closed; it would have wrung my heart to
                        hear a note from it that her hands did not evoke.
                    When we came out upon the church porch and I stood on the steps to allow
                        Larry to study the grounds, one of the brown-robed Sisterhood spoke my name.
                    It was Sister Theresa.
                    "Can you come in for a moment?" she asked.
                    "I will follow at once," I said.
                    She met me in the reception-room where I had seen her before.
                    "I'm sorry to trouble you on Christmas Day with my affairs,
                        but I have had a letter from Mr. Pickering, saying that he will be obliged
                        to bring suit for settlement of my account with Mr. Glenarm's
                        estate. I needn't say that this troubles me greatly. In my position
                        a lawsuit is uncomfortable; it would do a real harm to the school. Mr.
                        Pickering implies in a very disagreeable way that I exercised an undue
                        influence over Mr. Glenarm. You can readily understand that that is not a
                        pleasant accusation."
                    "He is going pretty far," I said.
                    "He gives me credit for a degree of power over others that I regret
                        to say I do not possess. He thinks, for instance, that I am responsible for
                        Miss Devereux's attitude toward him,something that I have had
                        nothing whatever to do with."
                    
                    "No, of course not."
                    "I'm glad you have no harsh feeling toward her. It was
                        unfortunate that Mr. Glenarm saw fit to mention her in his will. It has
                        given her a great deal of notoriety, and has doubtless strengthened the
                        impression in some minds that she and I really plotted to get as much as
                        possible of your grandfather's estate."
                    "No one would regret all this more than my grandfather,I am sure of
                        that. There are many inexplicable things about his affairs. It seems hardly
                        possible that a man so shrewd as he, and so thoughtful of the feelings of
                        others, should have left so many loose ends behind him. But I assure you I
                        am giving my whole attention to these matters, and I am wholly at your
                        service in anything I can do to help you."
                    "I sincerely hope that nothing may interfere to prevent your meeting
                        Mr. Glenarm's wish that you remain through the year. That was a
                        curious and whimsical provision, but it is not, I imagine, so
                        difficult."
                    She spoke in a kindly tone of encouragement that made me feel uneasy and
                        almost ashamed for having already forfeited my claim under the will. Her
                        beautiful gray eyes disconcerted me; I had not the heart to deceive her.
                    "I have already made it impossible for me to inherit under the
                        will," I said.
                    
                    The disappointment in her face rebuked me sharply.
                    "I am sorry, very sorry, indeed," she said coldly.
                        "But how, may I ask?"
                    "I ran away, last night. I went to Cincinnati to see Miss
                        Devereux."
                    She rose, staring in dumb astonishment, and after a full minute in which I
                        tried vainly to think of something to say, I left the house.
                    There is nothing in the world so tiresome as explanations, and I have never
                        in my life tried to make them without floundering into seas of trouble.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    PICKERING SERVES NOTICE
                    The next morning Bates placed a letter postmarked Cincinnati at my plate. I
                        opened and read it aloud to Larry: 
                            
                                
                                    On Board the Heloise
                                    
                                        December 25, 1901. John Glenarm, Esq., Glenarm
                                        House, Annandale, Wabana Co., Indiana:
                                    DEAR SIRI have just
                                        learned from what I believe to be a trustworthy source that
                                        you have already violated the terms of the agreement under
                                        which you entered into residence on the property near
                                        Annandale, known as Glenarm House. The provisions of the
                                        will of John Marshall Glenarm are plain and unequivocal, as
                                        you undoubtedly understood when you accepted them, and your
                                        absence, not only from the estate itself, but from Wabana
                                        County, violates beyond question your right to inherit.
                                    I, as executor, therefore demand that you at once vacate said
                                        property, leaving it in as good condition as when received
                                        by you.
                                    Very truly yours, ARTHUR PICKERING, Executor of the
                                        Estate of John Marshall Glenarm.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    "Very truly the devil's," growled Larry, snapping
                        his cigarette case viciously.
                    
                    "How did he find out?" I asked lamely, but my heart sank
                        like lead. Had Marian Devereux told him! How else could he know?
                    "Probably from the stars,the whole universe undoubtedly saw you
                        skipping off to meet your lady-love. Bah, these women!"
                    "Tut! They don't all marry the sons of brewers," I
                        retorted. "You assured me once, while your affair with that Irish
                        girl was on, that the short upper lip made Heaven seem possible, but
                        unnecessary; then the next thing I knew she had shaken you for the bloated
                        maltster. Take that for your impertinence. But perhaps it was
                        Bates?"
                    I did not wait for an answer. I was not in a mood for reflection or nice
                        distinctions. The man came in just then with a fresh plate of toast.
                    "Bates, Mr. Pickering has learned that I was away from the house on
                        the night of the attack, and I'm ordered off for having broken my
                        agreement to stay here. How do you suppose he heard of it so
                        promptly?"
                    "From Morgan, quite possibly. I have a letter from Mr. Pickering
                        myself this morning. Just a moment, sir."
                    He placed before me a note bearing the same date as my own. It was a sharp
                        rebuke of Bates for his failure to report my absence, and he was ordered to
                        prepare to  leave on the first of February.
                        "Close your accounts at the shopkeepers' and I will audit
                        your bills on my arrival."
                    The tone was peremptory and contemptuous. Bates had failed to satisfy
                        Pickering and was flung off like a smoked-out cigar.
                    "How much had he allowed you for expenses, Bates?"
                    He met my gaze imperturbably.
                    "He paid me fifty dollars a month as wages, sir, and I was allowed
                        seventy-five for other expenses."
                    "But you didn't buy English pheasants and champagne on that
                        allowance!"
                    He was carrying away the coffee tray and his eyes wandered to the windows.
                    "Not quite, sir. You see"
                    "But I don't see!"
                    "It had occurred to me that as Mr. Pickering's allowance
                        wasn't what you might call generous it was better to augment it
                        Well, sir, I took the liberty of advancing a trifle, as you might say, to
                        the estate. Your grandfather would not have had you starve, sir."
                    He left hurriedly, as though to escape from the consequences of his words,
                        and when I came to myself Larry was gloomily invoking his strange Irish
                        gods.
                    "Larry Donovan, I've been tempted to kill that fellow  a dozen times! This thing is too damned
                        complicated for me. I wish my lamented grandfather had left me something
                        easy. To think of itthat fellow, after my treatment of himmy cursing and
                        abusing him since I came here! Great Scott, man, I've been enjoying
                        his bounty, I've been living on his money! And all the time
                        he's been trusting in me, just because of his dog-like devotion to
                        my grandfather's memory. Lord, I can't face the fellow
                        again!"
                    "As I have said before, you're rather lacking at times in
                        perspicacity. Your intelligence is marred by large opaque spots. Now that
                        there's a woman in the case you're less sane than ever.
                        Bah, these women! And now we've got to go to work."
                    Bah, these women! My own heart caught the words. I was enraged and bitter. No
                        wonder she had been anxious for me to avoid Pickering after daring me to
                        follow her!
                    We called a council of war for that night that we might view matters in the
                        light of Pickering's letter. His assuredness in ordering me to
                        leave made prompt and decisive action necessary on my part. I summoned
                        Stoddard to our conference, feeling confident of his friendliness.
                    "Of course," said the broad-shouldered chaplain,
                        "if  you could show that your absence
                        was on business of very grave importance, the courts might construe in that
                        you had not really violated the will."
                    Larry looked at the ceiling and blew rings of smoke languidly. I had not
                        disclosed to either of them the cause of my absence. On such a matter I knew
                        I should get precious little sympathy from Larry, and I had, moreover, a
                        feeling that I could not discuss Marian Devereux with any one; I even shrank
                        from mentioning her name, though it rang like the call of bugles in my
                        blood.
                    She was always before me,the charmed spirit of youth, linked to every foot of
                        the earth, every gleam of the sun upon the ice-bound lake, every glory of
                        the winter sunset. All the good impulses I had ever stifled were quickened
                        to life by the thought of her. Amid the day's perplexities I
                        started sometimes, thinking I heard her voice, her girlish laughter, or saw
                        her again coming toward me down the stairs, or holding against the light her
                        fan with its golden butterflies. I really knew so little of her; I could
                        associate her with no home, only with that last fling of the autumn upon the
                        lake, the snow-driven woodland, that twilight hour at the organ in the
                        chapel, those stolen moments at the Armstrongs'. I resented the
                        pressure of the hour's affairs, and chafed at the necessity for
                        talking of my perplexities with the  good
                        friends who were there to help. I wished to be alone, to yield to the sweet
                        mood that the thought of her brought me. The doubt that crept through my
                        mind to any possibility of connivance between her and Pickering was as vague
                        and fleeting as the shadow of a swallow's wing on a sunny meadow.
                    "You don't intend fighting the fact of your absence, do
                        you?" demanded Larry, after a long silence.
                    "Of course not!" I replied quietly. "Pickering was
                        right on my heels, and my absence was known to his men here. And it would
                        not be square to my grandfather,who never harmed a flea, may his soul rest
                        in blessed peace!to lie about it. They might nail me for perjury
                        besides."
                    "Then the quicker we get ready for a siege the better. As I
                        understand your attitude, you don't propose to move out until
                        you've found where the siller's hidden. Being a gallant
                        gentleman and of a forgiving nature, want to be sure that the lady who is
                        now entitled to it gets all there is coming to her, and as you
                        don't trust the executor, any further than a true Irishman trusts a
                        British prime minister's promise, you're going to stand by
                        to watch the boodle counted. Is that a correct analysis of your
                        intentions?"
                    "That's as near one of my ideas as you're likely
                        to get, Larry Donovan!"
                    
                    "And if he comes with the authorities,the sheriff and that sort of
                        thing,we must prepare for such an emergency," interposed the
                        chaplain.
                    "So much the worse for the sheriff and the rest of them!" I
                        declared.
                    "Spoken like a man of spirit. And now we'd better stock up
                        at once, in case we should be shut off from our source of supplies. This is
                        a lonely place here; even the school is a remote neighbor. Better let Bates
                        raid the village shops to-morrow. I've tried being hungry, and I
                        don't care to repeat the experience."
                    And Larry reached for the tobacco jar.
                    "I can't imagine, I really can't
                        believe," began the chaplain, "that Miss Devereux will
                        want to be brought into this estate matter in any way. In fact, I have heard
                        Sister Theresa say as much. I suppose there's no way of preventing
                        a man from leaving his property to a young woman, who has no claim on
                        him,who doesn't want anything from him."
                    "Bah, these women! People don't throw legacies to the birds
                        these days. Of course she'll take it."
                    Then his eyes widened and met mine in a gaze that reflected the mystification
                        and wonder that struck both of us. Stoddard turned from the fire suddenly:
                    "What's that? There's some one up
                        stairs!"
                    
                    Larry was already running toward the hall, and I heard him springing up the
                        steps like a cat, while Stoddard and I followed.
                    "Where's Bates?" demanded the chaplain.
                    "I'll thank you for the answer," I replied.
                    Larry stood at the top of the staircase, holding a candle at arm's
                        length in front of him, staring about.
                    We could hear quite distinctly some one walking on a stairway; the sounds
                        were unmistakable, just as I had heard them on several previous occasions,
                        without ever being able to trace their source.
                    The noise ceased suddenly, leaving us with no hint of its whereabouts.
                    I went directly to the rear of the house and found Bates putting the dishes
                        away in the pantry.
                    "Where have you been?" I demanded.
                    "Here, sir; I have been clearing up the dinner things, Mr. Glenarm.
                        Is there anything the matter, sir?"
                    "Nothing."
                    I joined the others in the library.
                    "Why didn't you tell me this feudal imitation was
                        haunted?" asked Larry, in a grieved tone. "All it needed
                        was a cheerful ghost, and now I believe it lacks absolutely nothing.
                        I'm increasingly glad I came. How often does it walk?"
                    
                    "It's not on a schedule. Just now it's the wind in
                        the tower probably; the wind plays queer pranks up there
                        sometimes."
                    "You'll have to do better than that, Glenarm,"
                        said Stoddard. "It's as still outside as a country
                        graveyard."
                    "Only the slaugh sidhe, the people of the faery
                        hills, the cheerfulest ghosts in the world," said Larry.
                        "You literal Saxons can't grasp the idea, of
                        course."
                    But there was substance enough in our dangers without pursuing shadows.
                        Certain things were planned that night. We determined to exercise every
                        precaution to prevent a surprise from without, and we resolved upon a new
                        and systematic sounding of walls and floors, taking our clue from the
                        efforts made by Morgan and his ally to find hiding-places by this process.
                        Pickering would undoubtedly arrive shortly, and we wished to anticipate his
                        movements as far as possible.
                    We resolved, too, upon a day patrol of the grounds and a night guard. The
                        suggestion came, I believe, from Stoddard, whose interest in my affairs was
                        only equaled by the fertility of his suggestions. One of us should remain
                        abroad at night, ready to sound the alarm in case of attack. Bates should
                        take his turn with the restStoddard insisted on it.
                    Within two days we were, as Larry expressed it, on a  war footing. We added a couple of shot-guns and several
                        revolvers to my own arsenal, and piled the library table with cartridge
                        boxes. Bates, acting as quartermaster, brought a couple of wagon-loads of
                        provisions. Stoddard assembled a remarkable collection of heavy sticks; he
                        had more confidence in them, he said, than in gunpowder, and, moreover, he
                        explained, a priest might not with propriety bear arms.
                    It was a cheerful company of conspirators that now gathered around the big
                        hearth. Larry, always restless, preferred to stand at one side, an elbow on
                        the mantel-shelf, pipe in mouth; and Stoddard sought the biggest chair,and
                        filled it. He and Larry understood each other at once, and Larry's
                        stories, ranging in subject from undergraduate experiences at Dublin to
                        adventures in Africa and always including endless conflicts with the Irish
                        constabulary, delighted the big boyish clergyman.
                    Often, at some one's suggestion of a new idea, we ran off to explore
                        the house again in search of the key to the Glenarm riddle, and always we
                        came back to the library with that riddle still unsolved.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    THE RETURN OF MARIAN DEVEREUX
                    "Sister Theresa has left, sir."
                    Bates had been into Annandale to mail some letters, and I was staring out
                        upon the park from the library windows when he entered. Stoddard, having
                        kept watch the night before, was at home asleep, and Larry was off somewhere
                        in the house, treasure-hunting. I was feeling decidedly discouraged over our
                        failure to make any progress with our investigations, and Bates'
                        news did not interest me.
                    "Well, what of it?" I demanded, without turning round.
                    "Nothing, sir; but Miss Devereux has come back!"
                    "The devil!"
                    I turned and took a step toward the door.
                    "I said Miss Devereux," he repeated in dignified rebuke.
                        "She came up this morning, and the Sister left at once for Chicago.
                        Sister Theresa depends particularly upon Miss Devereux,so I've
                        heard, sir. Miss Devereux quite takes charge when the Sister goes away.  A few of the students are staying in school
                        through the holidays."
                    "You seem full of information," I remarked, taking another
                        step toward my hat and coat.
                    "And I've learned something else, sir."
                    "Well?"
                    "They all came together, sir."
                    "Who came; if you please, Bates?"
                    "Why, the people who've been traveling with Mr. Pickering
                        came back with him, and Miss Devereux came with them from Cincinnati.
                        That's what I learned in the village. And Mr. Pickering is going to
                        stay"
                    "Pickering stay!"
                    "At his cottage on the lake for a while. The reason is that
                        he's worn out with his work, and wishes quiet. The other people
                        went back to New York in the car."
                    "He's opened a summer cottage in mid-winter, has
                        he?"
                    I had been blue enough without this news. Marian Devereux had come back to
                        Annandale with Arthur Pickering; my faith in her snapped like a reed at this
                        astounding news. She was now entitled to my grandfather's property
                        and she had lost no time in returning as soon as she and Pickering had
                        discussed together at the Armstrongs' my flight from Annandale. Her
                        return could have no other meaning than that there was a  strong tie between them, and he was now to
                        stay on the ground until I should be dispossessed and her rights
                        established. She had led me to follow her, and my forfeiture had been sealed
                        by that stolen interview at the Armstrongs'. It was a black record,
                        and the thought of it angered me against myself and the world.
                    "Tell Mr. Donovan that I've gone to St.
                        Agatha's," I said, and I was soon striding toward the
                        school.
                    A Sister admitted me. I heard the sound of a pian-
                        somewhere in the building, and I consigned the inventor of pianos to hideous
                        torment as scales were pursued endlessly up and down the keys. Two girls
                        passing through the hall made a pretext of looking for a book and came in
                        and exclaimed over their inability to find it with much suppressed giggling.
                    The piano-pounding continued and I waited for what seemed an interminable
                        time. It was growing dark and a maid lighted the oil lamps. I took a book
                        from the table. It was The Life of Benvenuto Cellini and
                        "Marian Devereux" was written on the fly leaf, by
                        unmistakably the same hand that penned the apology for Olivia's
                        performances. I saw in the clear flowing lines of the signature, in their
                        lack of superfluity, her own ease, grace and charm; and, in the deeper
                        stroke with which the x was crossed, I felt a challenge, a readiness to
                        abide by consequences once her word was given.  Then my own inclination to think well of her angered me. It was only a
                        pretty bit of chirography, and I dropped the book impatiently when I heard
                        her step on the threshold.
                    "I am sorry to have kept you waiting, Mr. Glenarm. But this is my
                        busy hour."
                    "I shall not detain you long. I came,"I hesitated, not
                        knowing why I had come.
                    She took a chair near the open door and bent forward with an air of attention
                        that was disquieting. She wore blackperhaps to fit her the better into the
                        house of a somber Sisterhood. I seemed suddenly to remember her from a time
                        long gone, and the effort of memory threw me off guard. Stoddard had said
                        there were several Olivia Armstrongs; there were certainly many Marian
                        Devereuxs. The silence grew intolerable; she was waiting for me to speak,
                        and I blurted:
                    "I suppose you have come to take charge of the property."
                    "Do you?" she asked.
                    "And you came back with the executor to facilitate matters.
                        I'm glad to see that you lose no time."
                    "Oh!" she said lingeringly, as though she were finding with
                        difficulty the note in which I wished to pitch the conversation. Her
                        calmness was maddening.
                    "I suppose you thought it unwise to wait for the  bluebird when you had beguiled me into
                        breaking a promise, when I was trapped, defeated,"
                    Her elbow on the arm of the chair, her hand resting against her cheek, the
                        light rippling goldenly in her hair, her eyes bent upon me inquiringly,
                        mournfully,mournfully, as I had seen themwhere?once before! My heart leaped
                        in that moment, with that thought.
                    "I remember now the first time!" I exclaimed, more angry
                        than I had ever been before in my life.
                    "That is quite remarkable," she said, and nodded her head
                        ironically.
                    "It was at Sherry's; you were with Pickeringyou dropped
                        your fan and he picked it up, and you turned toward me for a moment. You
                        were in black that night; it was the unhappiness in your face, in your eyes,
                        that made me remember."
                    I was intent upon the recollection, eager to fix and establish it.
                    "You are quite right. It was at Sherry's. I was wearing
                        black then; many things made me unhappy that night."
                    Her forehead contracted slightly and she pressed her lips together.
                    "I suppose that even then the conspiracy was thoroughly
                        arranged," I said tauntingly, laughing a little  perhaps, and wishing to wound her, to take
                        vengeance upon her.
                    She rose and stood by her chair, one hand resting upon it. I faced her; her
                        eyes were like violet seas. She spoke very quietly.
                    "Mr. Glenarm, has it occurred to you that when I talked to you there
                        in the park, when I risked unpleasant gossip in receiving you in a house
                        where you had no possible right to be, that I was counting upon
                        something,foolishly and stupidly,yet counting upon it?"
                    "You probably thought I was a fool," I retorted.
                    "No;"she smiled slightly"I thoughtI believe I have
                        said this to you before!you were a gentleman. I really did, Mr. Glenarm. I
                        must say it to justify myself. I relied upon your chivalry; I even thought,
                        when I played being Olivia, that you had a sense of honor. But you are not
                        the one and you haven't the other. I even went so far, after you
                        knew perfectly well who I was, as to try to help youto give you another
                        chance to prove yourself the man your grandfather wished you to be. And now
                        you come to me in a shocking bad humor,I really think you would like to be
                        insulting, Mr. Glenarm, if you could."
                    "But Pickering,you came back with him; he is here and he's
                        going to stay! And now that the property 
                        belongs to you, there is not the slightest reason why we should make any
                        pretense of anything but enmity. When you and Arthur Pickering stand
                        together I take the other side of the barricade! I suppose chivalry would
                        require me to vacate, so that you may enjoy at once the spoils of
                        war."
                    "I fancy it would not be very difficult to eliminate you as a factor
                        in the situation," she remarked icily.
                    "And I suppose, after the unsuccessful efforts of Mr.
                        Pickering's allies to assassinate me, as a mild form of
                        elimination, one would naturally expect me to sit calmly down and wait to be
                        shot in the back. But you may tell Mr. Pickering that I throw myself upon
                        your mercy. I have no other home than this shell over the way, and I beg to
                        be allowed to remain untilat leastthe bluebirds come. I hope it will not
                        embarrass you to deliver the message."
                    "I quite sympathize with your reluctance to deliver it
                        yourself," she said. "Is this all you came to
                        say?"
                    "I came to tell you that you could have the house, and everything in
                        its hideous walls," I snapped; "to tell you that my
                        chivalry is enough for some situations and that I don't intend to
                        fight a woman. I had accepted your own renouncement of the legacy in good
                        part, but now, please believe me, it shall be yours tomorrow.  I'll yield possession to you
                        whenever you ask it,but never to Arthur Pickering! As against him and his
                        treasure-hunters and assassins I will hold out for a dozen years!"
                    "Nobly spoken, Mr. Glenarm! Yours is really an admirable, though
                        somewhat complex character."
                    "My character is my own, whatever it is," I blurted.
                    "I shouldn't call that a debatable proposition,"
                        she replied, and I was angry to find how the mirth I had loved in her could
                        suddenly become so hateful. She half-turned away so that I might not see her
                        face. The thought that she should countenance Pickering in any way tore me
                        with jealous rage.
                    "Mr. Glenarm, you are what I have heard called a quitter, defined in
                        common Americanese as one who quits! Your blustering here this afternoon can
                        hardly conceal the fact of your failure,your inability to keep a promise. I
                        had hoped you would really be of some help to Sister Theresa; you quite
                        deceived her,she told me as she left to-day that she thought well of you,she
                        really felt that her fortunes were safe in your hands. But, of course, that
                        is all a matter of past history now."
                    Her tone, changing from cold indifference to the most severe disdain, stung
                        me into self-pity for my stupidity  in having
                        sought her. My anger was not against her, but against Pickering, who had, I
                        persuaded myself, always blocked my path. She went on.
                    "You really amuse me exceedingly. Mr. Pickering is decidedly more
                        than a match for you, Mr. Glenarm,even in humor."
                    She left me so quickly, so softly, that I stood staring like a fool at the
                        spot where she had been, and then I went gloomily back t
                    Glenarm House, angry, ashamed and crestfallen.
                    While we were waiting for dinner I made a clean breast of my acquaintance
                        with her to Larry, omitting nothing,rejoicing even to paint my own conduct
                        as black as possible.
                    "You may remember her," I concluded, "she was the
                        girl we saw at Sherry's that night we dined there. She was with
                        Pickering, and you noticed her,spoke of her, as she went out."
                    "That little girl who seemed so bored, or tired? Bless me! Why her
                        eyes haunted me for days. Lord man, do you mean to say"
                    A look of utter scorn came into his face, and he eyed me contemptuously.
                    "Of course I mean it!" I thundered at him.
                    "He took the pipe from his mouth, pressed the tobacco  viciously into the bowl, and swore steadily
                        in Gaelic until I was ready to choke him.
                    "Stop!" I bawled. "Do you think that's
                        helping me? And to have you curse in your blackguardly Irish dialect! I
                        wanted a little Anglo-Saxon sympathy, you fool! I didn't mean for
                        you to invoke your infamous gods against the girl!"
                    "Don't be violent, lad. Violence is
                        reprehensible," he admonished with maddening sweetness and
                        patience. "What I was trying t
                    inculcate was rather the fact, borne in upon me through years of
                        acquaintance, that you are,to be bold, my lad, to be bold,a good deal of a
                        damned fool."
                    The trilling of his r's was like the whirring rise of a flock of
                        quails.
                    "Dinner is served," announced Bates, and Larry led the way,
                        mockingly chanting an Irish love-song.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    THE DOOR OF BEWILDERMENT
                    We had established the practice of barring all the gates and doors at
                        nightfall. There was no way of guarding against an attack from the lake,
                        whose frozen surface increased the danger from without; but we counted on
                        our night patrol to prevent a surprise from that quarter. I was well aware
                        that I must prepare to resist the militant arm of the law, which Pickering
                        would no doubt invoke to aid him, but I intended to exhaust the
                        possibilities in searching for the lost treasure before I yielded. Pickering
                        might, if he would, transfer the estate of John Marshall Glenarm to Marian
                        Devereux and make the most he could of that service, but he should not drive
                        me forth until I had satisfied myself of the exact character of my
                        grandfather's fortune. If it had vanished, if Pickering had stolen
                        it and outwitted me in making off with it, that was another matter.
                    The phrase, "The Door of Bewilderment," had never ceased to
                        reiterate itself in my mind. We discussed a 
                        thousand explanations of it as we pondered over the scrap of paper I had
                        found in the library, and every book in the house was examined in the search
                        for further clues.
                    The passage between the house and the chapel seemed to fascinate Larry. He
                        held that it must have some particular use and he devoted his time to
                        exploring it.
                    He came up at noonit was the twenty-ninth of Decemberwith grimy face and
                        hands and a grin on his face. I had spent my morning in the towers, where it
                        was beastly cold, to no purpose and was not in a mood for the ready
                        acceptance of new theories.
                    "I've found something," he said, filling his pipe.
                    "Not soap, evidently!"
                    "No, but I'm going to say the last word on the tunnel, and
                        within an hour. Give me a glass of beer and a piece of bread, and
                        we'll go back and see whether we're sold again or
                        not."
                    "Let us explore the idea and be done with it. Wait till I tell
                        Stoddard where we're going."
                    The chaplain was trying the second-floor walls, and I asked him to eat some
                        luncheon and stand guard while Larry and I went to the tunnel.
                    We took with us an iron bar, an ax and a couple of hammers. Larry went ahead
                        with a lantern.
                    "You see," he explained, as we dropped through the  trap into the passage,
                        "I've tried a compass on this tunnel and find that
                        we've been working on the wrong theory. The passage itself runs a
                        straight line from the house under the gate to the crypt; the ravine is a
                        rough crescent-shape and for a short distance the tunnel touches it. How
                        deep does that ravine averageabout thirty feet?"
                    "Yes; it's shallowest where the house stands. It drops
                        sharply from there on to the lake."
                    "Very good; but the ravine is all on the Glenarm side of the wall,
                        isn't it? Now when we get under the wall I'll show you
                        something."
                    "Here we are," said Larry, as the cold air blew in through
                        the hollow posts. "Now we're pretty near that sharp curve
                        of the ravine that dips away from the wall. Take the lantern while I get out
                        the compass. What do you think that C on the piece of paper means? Why,
                        chapel, of course. I have measured the distance from the house, the point of
                        departure, we may assume, to the chapel, and three-fourths of it brings us
                        under those beautiful posts. The directions are as plain as daylight. The
                        passage itself is your N. W., as the compass proves, and the ravine cuts
                        close in here; therefore, our business is to explore the wall on the ravine
                        side."
                    "Good! but this is just wall hereearth with a layer of brick and a
                        thin coat of cement. A nice job it must  have
                        been to do the work,and it cost the price of a tiger hunt," I
                        grumbled.
                    "Take heart, lad, and listen,"and Larry began pounding the
                        wall with a hammer, exactly under the north gate-post. We had sounded
                        everything in and about the house until the process bored me.
                    "Hurry up and get through with it," I jerked impatiently,
                        holding the lantern at the level of his head. It was sharply cold under the
                        posts and I was anxious to prove the worthlessness of his idea and be done.
                    Thump! thump!
                    "There's a place here that sounds a trifle off the key. You
                        try it."
                    I snatched the hammer and repeated his soundings.
                    Thump! thump!
                    There was a space about four feet square in the wall that certainly gave
                        forth a hollow sound.
                    "Stand back!" exclaimed Larry eagerly. "Here goes
                        with the ax."
                    He struck into the wall sharply and the cement chipped off in rough pieces,
                        disclosing the brick beneath. Larry paused when he had uncovered a foot of
                        the inner layer, and examined the surface.
                    "They're loosethese bricks are loose, and there's
                        something besides earth behind them!"
                    I snatched the hammer and drove hard at the wall.  The bricks were set up without mortar, and I plucked them out
                        and rapped with my knuckles on a wooden surface.
                    Even Larry grew excited as we flung out the bricks.
                    "Ah, lad," he said, "the old gentleman had a way
                        with himhe had a way with him!" A brick dropped on his foot and he
                        howled in pain.
                    "Bless the old gentleman's heart! He made it as easy for us
                        as he could. Now, for the Glenarm millions,red money all piled up for the
                        ease of counting it,a thousand pounds in every pile."
                    "Don't be a fool, Larry," I coughed at him, for
                        the brick dust and the smoke of Larry's pipe made breathing
                        difficult.
                    "That's all the loose brick,bring the lantern
                        closer,"and we peered through the aperture upon a wooden door, in
                        which strips of iron were deep-set. It was fastened with a padlock and Larry
                        reached down for the ax.
                    "Wait!" I called, drawing closer with the lantern.
                        "What's this?"
                    The wood of the door was fresh and white, but burned deep on the surface, in
                        this order, were the words: 
                            THE DOOR OF BEWILDERMENT
                        
                    
                    
                    "There are dead men inside, I dare say! Here, my lad, it's
                        not for me to turn loose the family skeletons,"and Larry stood
                        aside while I swung the ax and brought it down with a crash on the padlock.
                        It was of no flimsy stuff and the remaining bricks cramped me, but half a
                        dozen blows broke it off.
                    "The house of a thousand ghosts," chanted the irrepressible
                        Larry, as I pushed the door open and crawled through.
                    Whatever the place was it had a floor and I set my feet firmly upon it and
                        turned to take the lantern.
                    "Hold a bit," he exclaimed. "Some one's
                        coming,"and bending toward the opening I heard the sound of steps
                        down the corridor. In a moment Bates ran up, calling my name with more
                        spirit than I imagined possible in him.
                    "What is it?" I demanded, crawling out into the tunnel.
                    "It's Mr. Pickering. The sheriff has come with him,
                        sir."
                    As he spoke his glance fell upon the broken wall and open door. The light of
                        Larry's lantern struck full upon him. Amazement, and, I thought, a
                        certain satisfaction, were marked upon his countenance.
                    "Run along, Jack,I'll be up a little later," said
                        Larry. "If the fellow has come in daylight with the  sheriff, he isn't dangerous.
                        It's his friends that shoot in the dark that give us the
                        trouble."
                    I crawled out and stood upright. Bates, staring at the opening, seemed
                        reluctant to leave the spot.
                    "You seem to have found it, sir," he said,I thought a
                        little chokingly. His interest in the matter nettled me; for my first
                        business was to go above for an interview with the executor, and the value
                        of our discovery was secondary.
                    "Of course we have found it!" I ejaculated, brushing the
                        dust from my clothes. "Is Mr. Stoddard in the library?"
                    "Oh, yes, sir; I left him entertaining the gentlemen."
                    "Their visit is certainly most inopportune," said Larry.
                        "Give them my compliments and tell them I'll be up as soon
                        as I've articulated the bones of my friend's
                        ancestors."
                    Bates strode on ahead of me with his lantern, and I left Larry crawling
                        through the new-found door as I hurried toward the house. I knew him well
                        enough to be sure he would not leave the spot until he had found what lay
                        behind the Door of Bewilderment.
                    "You didn't tell the callers where you expected to find me,
                        did you?" I asked Bates, as he brushed me off in the kitchen.
                    "No, sir. Mr. Stoddard received the gentlemen. He  rang the bell for me and when I went into the
                        library he was saying, 'Mr. Glenarm is at his studies.
                        Bates,'he says'kindly tell Mr. Glenarm that I'm
                        sorry to interrupt him, but won't he please come down?' I
                        thought it rather neat, sir, considering his clerical office. I knew you
                        were below somewhere, sir; the trap-door was open and I found you easily
                        enough."
                    Bates' eyes were brighter than I had ever seen them. A certain
                        buoyant note gave an entirely new tone to his voice. He walked ahead of me
                        to the library door, threw it open and stood aside.
                    "Here you are, Glenarm," said Stoddard. Pickering and a
                        stranger stood near the fireplace in their overcoats.
                    Pickering advanced and offered his hand, but I turned away from him without
                        taking it. His companion, a burly countryman, stood staring, a paper in his
                        hand.
                    "The sheriff," Pickering explained, "and our
                        business is rather personal"
                    He glanced at Stoddard, who looked at me.
                    "Mr. Stoddard will do me the kindness to remain," I said
                        and took my stand beside the chaplain.
                    "Oh!" Pickering ejaculated scornfully. "I
                        didn't understand that you had established relations with the
                        neighboring clergy. Your taste is improving, Glenarm."
                    
                    "Mr. Glenarm is a friend of mine," remarked Stoddard
                        quietly. "A very particular friend," he added.
                    "I congratulate youboth."
                    I laughed. Pickering was surveying the room as he spoke,and Stoddard suddenly
                        stepped toward him, merely, I think, to draw up a chair for the sheriff; but
                        Pickering, not hearing Stoddard's step on the soft rug until the
                        clergyman was close beside him, started perceptibly and reddened.
                    It was certainly ludicrous, and when Stoddard faced me again he was biting
                        his lip.
                    "Pardon me!" he murmured.
                    "Now, gentlemen, will you kindly state your business? My own affairs
                        press me."
                    Pickering was studying the cartridge boxes on the library table. The sheriff,
                        too, was viewing these effects with interest not, I think, unmixed with awe.
                    "Glenarm, I don't like to invoke the law to eject you from
                        this property, but I am left with no alternative. I can't stay out
                        here indefinitely, and I want to know what I'm to expect."
                    "That is a fair question," I replied. "If it were
                        merely a matter of following the terms of the will I should not hesitate or
                        be here now. But it isn't the will, or my grandfather, that keeps
                        me, it's the determination to give you all the annoyance
                        possible,to make it  hard and mighty hard for
                        you to get hold of this house until I have found why you are so much
                        interested in it."
                    "You always had a grand way in money matters. As; I told you before
                        you came out here, it's a poor stake. The assets consist wholly of
                        this land and this house, whose quality you have had an excellent
                        opportunity to test. You have doubtless heard that the country people
                        believe there is money concealed here,but I dare say you have exhausted the
                        possibilities. This is not the first time a rich man has died leaving
                        precious little behind him."
                    "You seem very anxious to get possession of a property that you call
                        a poor stake," I said. "A few acres of land, a
                        half-finished house and an uncertain claim upon a school-teacher!"
                    "I had no idea you would understand it," he replied.
                        "The fact that a man may be under oath to perform the solemn duties
                        imposed upon him by the law would hardly appeal to you. But I
                        haven't come here to debate this question. When are you going to
                        leave?"
                    "Not till I'm ready,thanks!"
                    "Mr. Sheriff, will you serve your writ?" he said, and I
                        looked to Stoddard for any hint from him as to what I should do.
                    "I believe Mr. Glenarm is quite willing to hear whatever  the sheriff has to say to him," said
                        Stoddard. He stepped nearer to me, as though to emphasize the fact that he
                        belonged to my side of the controversy, and the sheriff read an order of the
                        Wabana County Circuit Court directing me, immediately, to deliver the house
                        and grounds into the keeping of the executor of the will of the estate of
                        John Marshall Glenarm.
                    The sheriff rather enjoyed holding the center of the stage, and I listened
                        quietly to the unfamiliar phraseology. Before he had quite finished I heard
                        a step in the hall and Larry appeared at the door, pipe in mouth. Pickering
                        turned toward him frowning, but Larry paid not the slightest attention to
                        the executor, leaning against the door with his usual tranquil unconcern.
                    "I advise you not to trifle with the law, Glenarm," said
                        Pickering angrily. "You have absolutely no right whatever to be
                        here. And these other gentlemenyour guests, I supposeare equally trespassers
                        under the law."
                    He stared at Larry, who crossed his legs for greater ease in adjusting his
                        lean frame to the door.
                    "Well, Mr. Pickering, what is the next step?" asked the
                        sheriff, with an importance that had been increased by the legal phrases he
                        had been reading.
                    "Mr. Pickering," said Larry, straightening up and taking
                        the pipe from his mouth, "I'm Mr. Glenarm's  counsel. If you will do me the kindness to
                        ask the sheriff to retire for a moment I should like to say a few words to
                        you that you might prefer to keep between ourselves."
                    I had usually found it wise to take any cue Larry threw me, and I said:
                    "Pickering, this is Mr. Donovan, who has every authority to act for
                        me in the matter."
                    Pickering looked impatiently from one to the other of us.
                    "You seem to have the guns, the ammunition and the numbers on your
                        side," he observed dryly.
                    "The sheriff may wait within call," said Larry, and at a
                        word from Pickering the man left the room.
                    "Now, Mr. Pickering,"Larry spoke slowly,"as my
                        friend has explained the case to me, the assets of his
                        grandfather's estate are all accounted for,the land hereabouts,
                        this house, the ten thousand dollars in securities and a somewhat vague
                        claim against a lady known as Sister Theresa, who conducts St.
                        Agatha's School. Is that correct?"
                    "I don't ask you to take my word for it, sir,"
                        rejoined Pickering hotly. "I have filed an inventory of the estate,
                        so far as found, with the proper authorities."
                    "Certainly. But I merely wish to be sure of my facts for the purpose
                        of this interview, to save me the trouble  of
                        going to the records. And, moreover, I am somewhat unfamiliar with your
                        procedure in this country. I am a member, sir, of the Irish Bar. Pardon me,
                        but I repeat my question."
                    "I have made oaththat, I trust, is sufficient even for a member of
                        the Irish Bar."
                    "Quite so, Mr. Pickering," said Larry, nodding his head
                        gravely.
                    He was not, to be sure, a presentable member of any bar, for a smudge
                        detracted considerably from the appearance of one side of his face, his
                        clothes were rumpled and covered with black dust, and his hands were black.
                        But I had rarely seen him so calm. He recrossed his legs, peered into the
                        bowl of his pipe for a moment, then asked, as quietly as though he were
                        soliciting an opinion of the weather:
                    "Will you tell me, Mr. Pickering, whether you yourself are a debtor
                        of John Marshall Glenarm's estate?"
                    Pickering's face grew white and his eyes stared, and when he tried
                        suddenly to speak his jaw twitched. The room was so still that the breaking
                        of a blazing log on the andirons was a pleasant relief. We stood, the three
                        of us, with our eyes on Pickering, and in my own case I must say that my
                        heart was pounding my ribs at an uncomfortable speed, for I knew Larry was
                        not sparring for time.
                    
                    The blood rushed into Pickering's face and he turned toward Larry
                        stormily.
                    "This is unwarrantable and infamous! My relations with Mr. Glenarm
                        are none of your business. When you remember that after being deserted by
                        his own flesh and blood he appealed to me, going so far as to intrust all
                        his affairs to my care at his death, your reflection is an outrageous
                        insult. I am not accountable to you or any one else!"
                    "Really, there's a good deal in all that," said
                        Larry. "We don't pretend to any judicial functions. We are
                        perfectly willing to submit the whole business and all my client's
                        acts to the authorities."
                    (I would give much if I could reproduce some hint of the beauty of that word
                        authorities as it rolled from Larry's tongue!)
                    "Then, in God's name, do it, you blackguards!"
                        roared Pickering.
                    Stoddard, sitting on a table, knocked his heels together gently. Larry
                        recrossed his legs and blew a cloud of smoke. Then, after a quarter of a
                        minute in which he gazed at the ceiling with his quiet blue eyes, he said:
                    "Yes; certainly, there are always the authorities. And as I have a
                        tremendous respect for your American institutions I shall at once act on
                        your suggestion. Mr.  Pickering, the estate is
                        richer than you thought it was. It holds, or will hold, your notes given to
                        the decedent for three hundred and twenty thousand dollars."
                    He drew from his pocket a brown envelope, walked to where I stood and placed
                        it in my hands.
                    At the same time Stoddard's big figure grew active, and before I
                        realized that Pickering had leaped toward the packet, the executor was
                        sitting in a chair, where the chaplain had thrown him. He rallied promptly,
                        stuffing his necktie into his waistcoat; he even laughed a little.
                    "So much old paper! You gentlemen are perfectly welcome to
                        it."
                    "Thank you!" jerked Larry.
                    "Mr. Glenarm and I had many transactions together, and he must have
                        forgotten to destroy those papers."
                    "Quite likely," I remarked. "It is interesting to
                        know that Sister Theresa wasn't his only debtor."
                    Pickering stepped to the door and called the sheriff.
                    "I shall give you until to-morrow morning at nine o'clock
                        to vacate the premises. The court understands this situation perfectly.
                        These claims are utterly worthless, as I am ready to prove."
                    "Perfectly, perfectly," repeated the sheriff.
                    "I believe that is all," said Larry, pointing to the door
                        with his pipe.
                    
                    The sheriff was regarding him with particular attention.
                    "What did I understand your name to be?" he demanded.
                    "Laurance Donovan," Larry replied coolly.
                    Pickering seemed to notice the name now and his eyes lighted disagreeably.
                    "I think I have heard of your friend before," he said,
                        turning to me. "I congratulate you on the international reputation
                        of your counsel. He's esteemed so highly in Ireland that they offer
                        a large reward for his return. Sheriff, I think we have finished our
                        business for to-day."
                    He seemed anxious to get the man away, and we gave them escort to the outer
                        gate where a horse and buggy were waiting.
                    "Now, I'm in for it," said Larry, as I locked the
                        gate. "We've spiked one of his guns, but I've
                        given him a new one to use against myself. But come, and I will show you the
                        Door of Bewilderment before I skip."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    A PROWLER OF THE NIGHT
                    Down we plunged into the cellar, through the trap and to the Door of
                        Bewilderment.
                    "Don't expect too much," admonished Larry;
                        "I can't promise you a single Spanish coin."
                    "Perish the ambition! We have blocked Pickering's game, and
                        nothing else matters," I said.
                    We crawled through the hole in the wall and lighted candles. The room was
                        about seven feet square. At the farther end was an oblong wooden door, close
                        to the ceiling, and Larry tugged at the fastening until it came down,
                        bringing with it a mass of snow and leaves.
                    "Gentlemen," he said, "we are at the edge of the
                        ravine. Do you see the blue sky? And yonder, if you will twist your necks a
                        bit, is the boat-house."
                    "Well, let the scenic effects go and show us where you found those
                        papers," I urged.
                    "Speaking of mysteries, that is where I throw up my hands, lads.
                        It's quickly told. Here is a table, and here is a tin despatch box,
                        which lies just where I found it.  It was
                        closed and the key was in the lock. I took out that packetit wasn't
                        even sealedsaw the character of the contents, and couldn't resist
                        the temptation to try the effect of an announcement of its discovery on your
                        friend Pickering. Now that is nearly all. I found this piece of paper under
                        the tape with which the envelope was tied, and I don't hesitate to
                        say that when I read it I laughed until I thought I should shake down the
                        cellar. Read it, John Glenarm!"
                    He handed me a sheet of legal-cap paper on which was written these words: 
                            HE LAUGHS BEST WHO LAUGHS LAST
                        
                    
                    "What do you think is so funny in this?" I demanded.
                    "Who wrote it, do you think?" asked Stoddard.
                    "Who wrote it, do you ask? Why, your grandfather wrote it! John
                        Marshall Glenarm, the cleverest, grandest old man that ever lived, wrote
                        it!" declaimed Larry, his voice booming loudly in the room.
                        "It's all a great big game, fixed up to try you and
                        Pickering,but principally you, you blockhead! Oh, it's grand,
                        perfectly, deliciously grand,and to think it should be my good luck to share
                        in it!"
                    "Humph! I'm glad you're amused, but it
                        doesn't strike me as being so awfully funny. Suppose those  papers had fallen into Pickering's
                        hands; then where would the joke have been, I should like to know!"
                    "On you, my lad, to be sure! The old gentleman wanted you to study
                        architecture; he wanted you to study his house; he even left a little
                        pointer in an old book! Oh, it's too good to be true!"
                    "That's all clear enough," observed Stoddard,
                        knocking upon the despatch box with his knuckles. "But why do you
                        suppose he dug this hole here with its outlet on the ravine?"
                    "Oh, it was the way of him!" explained Larry. "He
                        liked the idea of queer corners and underground passages. This is a bully
                        hiding-place for man or treasure, and that outlet into the ravine makes it
                        possible to get out of the house with nobody the wiser. It's in
                        keeping with the rest of his scheme. Be gay, comrades! Tomorrow will likely
                        find us with plenty of business on our hands. At present we hold the fort,
                        and let us have a care lest we lose it."
                    We closed the ravine door, restored the brick as best we could, and returned
                        to the library. We made a list of the Pickering notes and spent an hour
                        discussing this new feature of the situation.
                    "That's a large amount of money to lend one man,"
                        said Stoddard.
                    "True; and from that we may argue that Mr. Glenarm  didn't give Pickering all he had.
                        There's more somewhere. If only I didn't have to
                        run" and Larry's face fell as he remembered his own
                        plight.
                    "I'm a selfish pig, old man! I've been thinking
                        only of my own affairs. But I never relied on you as much as now!"
                    "Those fellows will sound the alarm against Donovan, without a
                        doubt, on general principles and to land a blow on you," remarked
                        Stoddard thoughtfully.
                    "But you can get away, Larry. We'll help you off to-night.
                        I don't intend to stand between you and liberty. This extradition
                        business is no joke,if they ever get you back in Ireland it will be no fun
                        getting you off. You'd better run for it before Pickering and his
                        sheriff spring their trap."
                    "Yes; that's the wise course. Glenarm and I can hold the
                        fort here. His is a moral issue, really, and I'm in for a siege of
                        a thousand years," said the clergyman earnestly, "if
                        it's necessary to beat Pickering. I may go to jail in the end, too,
                        I suppose."
                    "I want you both to leave. It's unfair to mix you up in
                        this ugly business of mine. Your stake's bigger than mine, Larry.
                        And yours, too, Stoddard; why, your whole futureyour professional standing
                        and prospects would be ruined if we got into a fight here with the
                        authorities."
                    
                    "Thank you for mentioning my prospects! I've never had them
                        referred to before," laughed Stoddard. "No; your
                        grandfather was a friend of the Church and I can't desert his
                        memory. I'm a believer in a vigorous Church militant and
                        I'm enlisted for the whole war. But Donovan ought to go, if he will
                        allow me to advise him."
                    Larry filled his pipe at the fireplace.
                    "Lads," he said, his hands behind him, rocking gently as
                        was his way, "let us talk of art and letters,I'm going to
                        stay. It hasn't often happened in my life that the whole setting of
                        the stage has pleased me as much as this. Lost treasure; secret passages; a
                        gentleman rogue storming the citadel; a private chaplain on the premises; a
                        young squire followed by a limelight; sheriff, school-girls and a Sisterhood
                        distributed through the landscape,and me, with Scotland Yard looming duskily
                        in the distance. Glenarm, I'm going to stay."
                    There was no shaking him, and the spirits of all of us rose after this new
                        pledge of loyalty. Stoddard stayed for dinner, and afterward we began again
                        our eternal quest for the treasure, our hopes high from Larry's
                        lucky strike of the afternoon, and with a new eagerness born of the
                        knowledge that the morrow would certainly bring us face to face with the
                        real crisis. We  ranged the house from tower
                        to cellar; we overhauled the tunnel, for, it seemed to me, the hundredth
                        time.
                    It was my watch, and at midnight, after Stoddard and Larry had reconnoitered
                        the grounds and Bates and I had made sure of all the interior fastenings, I
                        sent them off to bed and made myself comfortable with a pipe in the library.
                    I was glad of the respite, glad to be alone,to consider my talk with Marian
                        Devereux at St. Agatha's, and her return with Pickering. Why could
                        she not always have been Olivia, roaming the woodland, or the girl in gray,
                        or that woman, so sweet in her dignity, who came down the stairs at the
                        Armstrongs'? Her own attitude toward me was so full of
                        contradictions; she had appeared to me in so many moods and guises, that my
                        spirit ranged the whole gamut of feeling as I thought of her. But it was the
                        recollection of Pickering's infamous conduct that colored all my
                        doubts of her. Pickering had always been in my way, and here, but for the
                        chance by which Larry had found the notes, I should have had no weapon to
                        use against him.
                    The wind rose and drove shrilly around the house. A bit of scaffolding on the
                        outer walls rattled loose somewhere and crashed down on the terrace. I grew
                        restless, my mind intent upon the many chances of the  morrow, and running forward to the future. Even if I won in my
                        strife with Pickering I had yet my way to make in the world. His notes were
                        probably worthless,I did not doubt that. I might use them to procure his
                        removal as executor, but I did not look forward with any pleasure to a legal
                        fight over a property that had brought me only trouble.
                    Something impelled me to go below, and, taking a lantern, I tramped somberly
                        through the cellar, glanced at the heating apparatus, and, remembering that
                        the chapel entrance to the tunnel was unguarded, followed the corridor to
                        the trap, and opened it. The cold air blew up sharply and I thrust my head
                        down to listen.
                    A sound at once arrested me. I thought at first it must be the suction of the
                        air, but Glenarm House was no place for conjectures, and I put the lantern
                        aside and jumped down into the tunnel. A gleam of light showed for an
                        instant, then the darkness and silence were complete.
                    I ran rapidly over the smooth floor, which I had traversed so often that I
                        knew its every line. My only weapon was one of Stoddard's clubs.
                        Near the Door of Bewilderment I paused and listened. The tunnel was
                        perfectly quiet. I took a step forward and stumbled over a brick, fumbled on
                        the wall for the opening which we had closed carefully that afternoon, and
                        at  the instant I found it a lantern flashed
                        blindingly in my face and I drew back, crouching involuntarily, and
                        clenching the club ready to strike.
                    "Good evening, Mr. Glenarm!"
                    Marian Devereux's voice broke the silence, and Marian
                        Devereux's face, with the full light of the lantern upon it, was
                        bent gravely upon me. Her voice, as I heard it there,her face, as I saw it
                        there,are the things that I shall remember last when my hour comes to go
                        hence from this world. The slim fingers, as they clasped the wire screen of
                        the lantern, held my gaze for a second. The red tam-o'-shanter that
                        I had associated with her youth and beauty was tilted rakishly on one side
                        of her pretty head. To find her here, seeking, like a thief in the night,
                        for some means of helping Arthur Pickering, was the bitterest drop in the
                        cup. I felt as though I had been struck with a bludgeon.
                    "I beg your pardon!" she said, and laughed. "There
                        doesn't seem to be anything to say, does there? Well, we do
                        certainly meet under the most unusual, not to say unconventional,
                        circumstances, Squire Glenarm. Please go away or turn your back. I want to
                        get out of this donjon keep."
                    She took my hand coolly enough and stepped down into the passage. Then I
                        broke upon her stormily.
                    "You don't seem to understand the gravity of what  you are doing! Don't you know that
                        you are risking your life in crawling through this house at midnight?that
                        even to serve Arthur Pickering, a life is a pretty big thing to throw away?
                        Your infatuation for that blackguard seems to carry you far, Miss
                        Devereux."
                    She swung the lantern at arm's length back and forth so that its
                        rays at every forward motion struck my face like a blow.
                    "It isn't exactly pleasant in this cavern. Unless you wish
                        to turn me over to the lord high executioner, I will bid you good
                        night."
                    "But the infamy of thisof coming in here to spy upon meto help my
                        enemythe man who is seeking plunderdoesn't seem to trouble
                        you."
                    "No, not a particle!" she replied quietly, and then, with
                        an impudent fling, "Oh, no!" She held up the lantern to
                        look at the wick. "I'm really disappointed to find that
                        you were a little ahead of me, Squire Glenarm. I didn't give you
                        credit for so muchperseverance. But if you have the notes"
                    "The notes! He told you there were notes, did he? The coward sent
                        you here to find them, after his othe tools failed him?"
                    She laughed that low laugh of hers that was like the bubble of a spring.
                    
                    
                        "I beg your pardon!" she said, and laughed.
                        
                            Page 311
                        
                    
                    
                    "Of course no one would dare deny what the great Squire Glenarm
                        says," she said witheringly.
                    "You can't know what your perfidy means to me," I
                        said. "That night, at the Armstrongs', I thrilled at the
                        sight of you. As you came down the stairway I thought of you as my good
                        angel, and I belonged to you,all my life, the better future that I wished to
                        make for your sake."
                    "Please don't!" And I felt that my words had
                        touched her; that there were regret and repentance in her tone and in the
                        gesture with which she turned from me.
                    She hurried down the passage swinging the lantern at her side, and I
                        followed, so mystified, so angered by her composure, that I scarcely knew
                        what I did. She even turned, with pretty courtesy, to hold the light for me
                        at the crypt steps,a service that I accepted perforce and with joyless
                        acquiescence in the irony of it. I knew that I did not believe in her; her
                        conduct as to Pickering was utterly indefensible,I could not forget that;
                        but the light of her eyes, her tranquil brow, the sensitive lips, whose
                        mockery stung and pleased in a breath,by such testimony my doubts were
                        alternately reinforced and disarmed. Swept by these changing moods I
                        followed her out into the crypt.
                    
                    "You seem to know a good deal about this place, and I suppose I
                        can't object to your familiarizing yourself with your own property.
                        And the notesI'll give myself the pleasure of handing them to you
                        to-morrow. You can cancel them and give them to Mr. Pickering,a pretty
                        pledge between you!"
                    I thrust my hands into my pockets to give an impression of ease I did not
                        feel.
                    "Yes," she remarked in a practical tone, "three
                        hundred and twenty thousand dollars is no mean sum of money. Mr. Pickering
                        will undoubtedly be delighted to have his debts canceled"
                    "In exchange for a life of devotion," I sneered.
                        "So you knew the sumthe exact amount of these notes. He
                        hasn't served you well; he should have told you that we found them
                        to-day."
                    "You are not nice, are you, Squire Glenarm, when you are
                        cross?"
                    She was like Olivia now. I felt the utter futility of attempting to reason
                        with a woman who could become a child at will. She walked up the steps and
                        out into the church vestibule. Then before the outer door she spoke with
                        decision.
                    "We part here, if you please! AndI have not the slightest intention
                        of trying to explain my errand into that passage. You have jumped to your
                        own conclusion,  which will have to serve you.
                        I advise you not to think very much about it,to the exclusion of more
                        important business,Squire Glenarm!"
                    She lifted the lantern to turn out its light, and it made a glory of her
                        face, but she paused and held it toward me.
                    "Pardon me! You will need this to light you home."
                    "But you must not cross the park alone!"
                    "Good night! Please be sure to close the door to the passage when
                        you go down. You are a dreadfully heedless person, Squire Glenarm."
                    She flung open the outer chapel-door, and ran along the path toward St.
                        Agatha's. I watched her in the starlight until a bend in the path
                        hid her swift-moving figure.
                    Down through the passage I hastened, her lantern lighting my way. At the Door
                        of Bewilderment I closed the opening, setting up the line of wall as we had
                        left it in the afternoon, and then I went back to the library, freshened the
                        fire and brooded before it until Bates came to relieve me at dawn.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    BESIEGED
                    It was nine o'clock. A thermometer on the terrace showed the mercury
                        clinging stubbornly to a point above zero; but the still air was keen and
                        stimulating, and the sun argued for good cheer in a cloudless sky. We had
                        swallowed some breakfast, though I believe no one had manifested an
                        appetite, and we were cheering ourselves with the idlest talk possible.
                        Stoddard, who had been to the chapel for his usual seven o'clock
                        service, was deep in the pocket Greek testament he always carried.
                    Bates ran in to report a summons at the outer wall, and Larry and I went
                        together to answer it, sending Bates to keep watch toward the lake.
                    Our friend the sheriff, with a deputy, was outside in a buggy. He stood up
                        and talked to us over the wall.
                    "You gents understand that I'm only doing my duty.
                        It's an unpleasant business, but the court orders me to eject all
                        trespassers on the premises, and I've got to do it."
                    "The law is being used by an infamous scoundrel to  protect himself. I don't intend to
                        give in. We can hold out here for three months, if necessary, and I advise
                        you to keep away and not be made a tool for a man like Pickering."
                    The sheriff listened respectfully, resting his arms on top of the wall.
                    "You ought to understand, Mr. Glenarm, that I ain't the
                        court; I'm the sheriff, and it's not for me to pass on
                        these questions. I've got my orders and I've got to
                        enforce 'em, and I hope you will not make it necessary for me to
                        use violence. The judge said to me, 'We deplore violence in such
                        cases.' Those were his Honor's very words."
                    "You may give his Honor my compliments and tell him that we are
                        sorry not to see things his way, but there are points involved in this
                        business that he doesn't know anything about, and we,
                        unfortunately, have no time to lay them before him."
                    The sheriff's seeming satisfaction with his position on the wall and
                        his disposition to parley had begun to arouse my suspicions, and Larry
                        several times exclaimed impatiently at the absurdity of discussing my
                        affairs with a person whom he insisted on calling a constable, to the
                        sheriff's evident annoyance. The officer now turned upon him.
                    
                    "You, sir,we've got our eye on you, and you'd
                        better come along peaceable. Laurance Donovanthe description fits you to a
                        't'."
                    "You could buy a nice farm with that reward, couldn't
                        you" began Larry, but at that moment Bates ran toward us calling
                        loudly.
                    "They're coming across the lake, sir," he
                        reported, and instantly the sheriff's head disappeared, and as we
                        ran toward the house we heard his horse pounding down the road toward St.
                        Agatha's.
                    "The law be damned. They don't intend to come in here by
                        the front door as a matter of law," said Larry.
                        "Pickering's merely using the sheriff to give
                        respectability to his mancoeuvers for those notes and the rest of
                        it."
                    It was no time for a discussion of motives. We ran across the meadow past the
                        water tower and through the wood down to the boat-house. Far out on the lake
                        we saw half a dozen men approaching the Glenarm grounds. They advanced
                        steadily over the light snow that lay upon the ice, one man slightly in
                        advance and evidently the leader.
                    "It's Morgan!" exclaimed Bates. "And
                        there's Ferguson."
                    Larry chuckled and slapped his thigh.
                    "Observe that stocky little devil just behind the leader?  He's my friend from Scotland Yard.
                        Lads! this is really an international affair."
                    "Bates, go back to the house and call at any sign of
                        attack," I ordered. "The sheriff's loose
                        somewhere."
                    "And Pickering is directing his forces from afar," remarked
                        Stoddard.
                    "I count ten men in Morgan's line," said Larry,
                        "and the sheriff and his deputy make two more. That's
                        twelve, not counting Pickering, that we know of on the other side."
                    "Warn them away before they get much nearer," suggested
                        Stoddard. "We don't want to hurt people if we can help
                        it,"and at this I went to the end of the pier. Morgan and his men
                        were now quite near, and there was no mistaking their intentions. Most of
                        them carried guns, the others revolvers and long ice-hooks.
                    "Morgan," I called, holding up my hands for a truce,
                        "we wish you no harm, but if you enter these grounds you do so at
                        your peril."
                    "We're all sworn deputy sheriffs," called the
                        caretaker smoothly. "We've got the law behind
                        us."
                    "That must be why you're coming in the back way,"
                        I replied.
                    The thick-set man whom Larry had identified as the English detective now came
                        closer and addressed me in a high key.
                    
                    "You're harboring a bad man, Mr. Glenarm. You'd
                        better give him up. The American law supports me, and you'll get
                        yourself in trouble if you protect that man. You may not understand, sir,
                        that he's a very dangerous character."
                    "Thanks, Davidson!" called Larry. "You'd
                        better keep out of this. You know I'm a bad man with the
                        shillalah!"
                    "That you are, you blackguard!" yelled the officer, so
                        spitefully that we all laughed.
                    I drew back to the boat-house.
                    "They are not going to kill anybody if they can help it,"
                        remarked Stoddard, "any more than we are. Even deputy sheriffs are
                        not turned loose to do murder, and the Wabana County Court
                        wouldn't, if it hadn't been imposed on by Pickering, lend
                        itself to a game like this."
                    "Now we're in for it," yelled Larry, and the
                        twelve men, in close order, came running across the ice toward the shore.
                    "Open order, and fall back slowly toward the house," I
                        commanded. And we deployed from the boat-house, while the attacking party
                        still clung together,a strategic error, as Larry assured us.
                    "Stay together, lads. Don't separate; you'll get
                        lost if you do," he yelled.
                    
                    Stoddard bade him keep still, and we soon had our hands full with a
                        preliminary skirmish. Morgan's line advanced warily. Davidson, the
                        detective, seemed disgusted at Morgan's tactics, openly abused the
                        care-taker, and ran ahead of his column, revolver in hand, bearing down upon
                        Larry, who held our center.
                    The Englishman's haste was his undoing. The light fall of snow a few
                        days before had gathered in the little hollows of the wood deceptively. The
                        detective plunged into one of these and fell sprawling on all fours,a
                        calamity that caused his comrades to pause uneasily. Larry was upon his
                        enemy in a flash, wrenched his pistol away and pulled the man to his feet.
                    "Ah, Davidson! There's many a slip! Move, if you dare and
                        I'll plug you with your own gun." And he stood behind the
                        man, using him as a shield while Morgan and the rest of the army hung near
                        the boat-house uncertainly.
                    "It's the strategic intellect we've captured,
                        General," observed Larry to me. "You see the American
                        invaders were depending on British brains."
                    Morgan now acted on the hint we had furnished him and sent his men out as
                        skirmishers. The loss of the detective had undoubtedly staggered the
                        caretaker, and we were slowly retreating toward the house, Larry with one
                        hand on the collar of his prisoner and the other  grasping the revolver with which he poked the man frequently
                        in the ribs. We slowly continued our retreat, fearing a rush, which would
                        have disposed of us easily enough if Morgan's company had shown
                        more of a fighting spirit. Stoddard's presence rather amazed them,
                        I think, and I saw that the invaders kept away from his end of the line. We
                        were far apart, stumbling over the snow-covered earth and calling to one
                        another now and then that we might not become too widely separated. Davidson
                        did not relish his capture by the man he had followed across the ocean, and
                        he attempted once to roar a command to Morgan.
                    "Try it again," I heard Larry admonish him, "try
                        that once more, and The Sod, God bless it! will never feel the delicate
                        imprint of your web-feet again."
                    He turned the man about and rushed him toward the house, the revolver still
                        serving as a prod. His speed gave heart to the wary invaders immediately
                        behind him and two fellows urged and led by Morgan charged our line at a
                        smart pace.
                    "Bolt for the front door," I called to Larry, and Stoddard
                        and I closed in after him to guard his retreat.
                    "They're not shooting," called Stoddard.
                        "You may be sure they've had their orders to capture the
                        house with as little row as possible."
                    We were now nearing the edge of the wood, with the  open meadow and water-tower at our backs, while Larry was
                        making good time toward the house.
                    "Let's meet them here," shouted Stoddard.
                    Morgan was coming up with a club in his hand, making directly for me, two men
                        at his heels, and the rest veering off toward the wall of St.
                        Agatha's.
                    "Watch the house," I yelled to the chaplain; and then, on
                        the edge of the wood Morgan came at me furiously, swinging his club over his
                        head, and in a moment we were fencing away at a merry rate. We both had
                        revolvers strapped to our waists, but I had no intention of drawing mine
                        unless in extremity. At my right Stoddard was busy keeping off
                        Morgan's personal guard, who seemed reluctant to close with the
                        clergy man.
                    I have been, in my day, something of a fencer, and my knowledge of the foils
                        stood me in good stead now. With a tremendous thwack I knocked
                        Morgan's club flying over the snow and, as we grappled, Bates
                        yelled from the house. I quickly found that Morgan's wounded arm
                        was still tender. He flinched at the first grapple, and his anger got the
                        better of his judgment. We kicked up the snow at a great rate as we feinted
                        and dragged each other about. He caught hold of my belt with one hand and
                        with a great wrench nearly dragged me from my feet, but I pinioned his arms
                        and bent  him backward, then, by a trick Larry
                        had taught me, flung him upon his side. It is not, I confess, a pretty
                        business, matching your brute strength against that of a fellow man, and as
                        I cast myself upon him and felt his hard-blown breath on my face, I hated
                        myself more than I hated him for engaging in so ignoble a contest.
                    Bates continued to call from the house.
                    "Come on at any cost," shouted Stoddard, putting himself
                        between me and the men who were flying to Morgan's aid.
                    I sprang away from my adversary, snatching his revolver, and ran toward the
                        house, Stoddard close behind, but keeping himself well between me and the
                        men who were now after us in full cry.
                    "Shoot, you fools, shoot!" howled Morgan, and as we reached
                        the open meadow and ran for the house a shotgun roared back of us and
                        buckshot snapped and rattled on the stone of the water tower.
                    "There's the sheriff," called Stoddard behind me.
                    The officer of the law and his deputy ran into the park from the gate of St.
                        Agatha's, while the rest of Morgan's party were skirting
                        the wall to join them.
                    "Stop or I'll shoot," yelled Morgan, and I felt
                        Stoddard pause in his gigantic stride to throw himself between me and the
                        pursuers.
                    "Sprint for it hot," he called very coolly, as though  he were coaching me in a contest of the most
                        amiable sort imaginable.
                    "Get away from those guns," I panted, angered by the very
                        generosity of his defense.
                    "Feint for the front entrance and then run for the terrace and the
                        library-door," he commanded, as we crossed the little ravine
                        bridge. "They've got us headed off."
                    Twice the guns boomed behind us, and twice I saw shot cut into the snow about
                        me.
                    "I'm all right," called Stoddard reassuringly,
                        still at my back. "They're not a bit anxious to kill
                        me."
                    I was at the top of my speed now, but the clergyman kept close at my heels. I
                        was blowing hard, but he made equal time with perfect ease.
                    The sheriff was bawling orders to his forces, who awaited us before the front
                        door. Bates and Larry were not visible, but I had every confidence that the
                        Irishman would reappear in the fight at the earliest moment possible. Bates,
                        too, was to be reckoned with, and the final struggle, if it came in the
                        house itself, might not be so unequal, providing we knew the full strength
                        of the enemy.
                    "Now for the sheriffhere we go!" cried Stoddardbeside meand
                        we were close to the fringe of trees that shielded the entrance. Then off we
                        veered suddenly to  the left, close upon the
                        terrace, where one of the French windows was thrown open and Larry and Bates
                        stepped out, urging us on with lusty cries.
                    They caught us by the arms and dragged us over where the balustrade was
                        lowest, and we crowded through the door and slammed it. As Bates snapped the
                        bolts Morgan's party discharged its combined artillery and the
                        sheriff began a great clatter at the front door.
                    "Gentlemen, we're in a state of siege," observed
                        Larry, filling his pipe.
                    Shot pattered on the walls and several panes of glass cracked in the French
                        windows.
                    "All's tight below, sir," reported Bates.
                        "I thought it best to leave the tunnel trap open for our own use.
                        Those fellows won't come in that way,it's too much like a
                        blind alley."
                    "Where's your prisoner, Larry?"
                    "Potato cellar, quite comfortable, thanks!"
                    It was ten o'clock and the besiegers suddenly withdrew a short
                        distance for parley among themselves. Outside the sun shone brightly; and
                        the sky was never bluer.
                    In this moment of respite, while we made ready for what further the day might
                        bring forth, I climbed up to the finished tower to make sure we knew the
                        enemy's full strength. I could see over the tree-tops, beyond the
                             chapel tower, the roofs of St.
                        Agatha's. There, at least, was peace. And in that moment, looking
                        over the black wood, with the snow lying upon the ice of the lake white and
                        gleaming under the sun, I felt unutterably lonely and heart-sick, and tired
                        of strife. It seemed a thousand years ago that I had walked and talked with
                        the child Olivia; and ten thousand years more since the girl in gray at the
                        Annandale station had wakened in me a higher aim, and quickened a better
                        impulse than I had ever known.
                    Larry roared my name through the lower floors. I went down with no wish in my
                        heart but to even matters with Pickering and be done with my
                        grandfather's legacy for ever.
                    "The sheriff and Morgan have gone back toward the lake,"
                        reported Larry.
                    "They've gone to consult their chief," I said.
                        "I wish Pickering would lead his own battalions. It would give
                        social prestige to the fight."
                    "Bah, these women!" And Larry tore the corner from a
                        cartridge box.
                    Stoddard, with a pile of clubs within reach, lay on his back on the long
                        leather couch, placidly reading his Greek testament. Bates, for the first
                        time since my arrival, seemed really nervous and anxious. He pulled a silver
                        watch from his pocket several times, something I  had never seen him do before. He leaned against the table,
                        looking strangely tired and worn, and I saw him start nervously as he felt
                        Larry's eyes on him.
                    "I think, sir, I'd better take another look at the outer
                        gates," he remarked to me quite respectfully.
                    His disturbed air aroused my old antagonism. Was he playing double in the
                        matter? Did he seek now an excuse for conveying some message to the enemy?
                    "You'll stay where you are," I said sharply, and I
                        found myself restlessly fingering my revolver.
                    "Very good, sir,"and the hurt look in his eyes touched me.
                    "Bates is all right," Larry declared, with an emphasis that
                        was meant to rebuke me.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    THE FIGHT IN THE LIBRARY
                    "They're coming faster this time," remarked
                        Stoddard.
                    "Certainly. Their general has been cursing them right heartily for
                        retreating without the loot. He wants his three-hundred-thousand-dollar
                        autograph collection," observed Larry.
                    "Why doesn't he come for it himself, like a man?"
                        I demanded.
                    "Like a man, do you say!" ejaculated Larry. "Faith
                        and you flatter that fat-head!"
                    It was nearly eleven o'clock when the attacking party returned after
                        a parley on the ice beyond the boat-house. The four of us were on the
                        terrace ready for them.
                    They came smartly through the wood, the sheriff and Morgan slightly in
                        advance of the others. I expected them to slacken their pace when they came
                        to the open meadow, but they broke into a quick trot at the watertower and
                        came toward the house as steady as veteran campaigners.
                    "Shall we try gunpowder?" asked Larry.
                    "We'll let them fire the first volley," I said.
                    
                    "They've already tried to murder you and
                        Stoddard,I'm in for letting loose with the elephant guns,"
                        protested the Irishman.
                    "Stand to your clubs," admonished Stoddard, whose own
                        weapon was comparable to the Scriptural weaver's beam.
                        "Possession is nine points of the fight, and we've got the
                        house."
                    "Also a prisoner of war," said Larry, grinning.
                    The English detective had smashed the glass in the barred window of the
                        potato cellar and we could hear him howling and cursing below.
                    "Looks like business this time!" exclaimed Larry.
                    "Spread out now and the first head that sticks over the balustrade
                        gets a dose of hickory."
                    When twenty-five yards from the terrace the advancing party divided, half
                        halting between us and the water-tower and the remainder swinging around the
                        house toward the front entrance.
                    "Ah, look at that!" yelled Larry. "It's a
                        batteringram they have. O man of peace! have I your Majesty's
                        consent to try the elephant guns now?"
                    Morgan and the sheriff carried between them a stick of timber from which the
                        branches had been cut, and, with a third man to help, they ran it up the
                        steps and against the door with a crash that came booming back through the
                        house.
                    
                    Bates was already bounding up the front stairway, a revolver in his hand and
                        a look of supreme rage on his face. Leaving Stoddard and Larry to watch the
                        library windows, I was after him, and we clattered over the loose boards in
                        the upper hall and into a great unfinished chamber immediately over the
                        entrance. Bates had the window up when I reached him and was well out upon
                        the coping, yelling a warning to the men below.
                    He had his revolver up to shoot, and when I caught his arm he turned to me
                        with a look of anger and indignation I had never expected to see on his
                        colorless, masklike face.
                    "My God, sir! That door was his pride, sir,it came from a famous
                        house in England, and they're wrecking it, sir, as though it were
                        common pine."
                    He tore himself free of my grasp as the besiegers again launched their
                        battering-ram against the door with a frightful crash, and his revolver
                        cracked smartly thrice, as he bent far out with one hand clinging to the
                        window frame.
                    His shots were a signal for a sharp reply from one of the men below, and I
                        felt Bates start, and pulled him in, the blood streaming from his face.
                    "It's all right, sir,all right,only a cut across my cheek,
                        sir,"and another bullet smashed through the glass, spurting plaster
                        dust from the wall. A fierce  onslaught below
                        caused a tremendous crash to eche through the house, and I heard firing on
                        the opposite side; where the enemy's reserve was waiting.
                    Bates, with a handkerchief to his face, protested that he was unhurt.
                    "Come below; there's nothing to be gained
                        here,"and I ran down to the hall, where Stoddard stood, leaning
                        upon his club like a Hercules and coolly watching the door as it leaped and
                        shook under the repeated blows of the besiegers.
                    A gun roared again at the side of the house, and I ran to the library, where
                        Larry had pushed furniture against all the long windows save one, which he
                        held open. He stepped out upon the terrace and emptied a revolver at the men
                        who were now creeping along the edge of the ravine beneath us. One of them
                        stopped and discharged a rifle at us with deliberate aim. The ball snapped
                        snow from the balustrade and screamed away harmlessly.
                    "Bah, such monkeys!" he muttered. "I believe
                        I've hit that chap!" One man had fallen and lay howling in
                        the ravine, his hand to his thigh, while his comrades paused, demoralized.
                    "Serves you right, you blackguard!" Larry muttered.
                    I pulled him in and we jammed a cabinet against the door.
                    Meanwhile the blows at the front continued with increasing  violence. Stoddard still stood where I had
                        left him. Bates was not in sight, but the barking of a revolver above showed
                        that he had returned to the window to take vengeance on his enemies.
                    Stoddard shook his head in deprecation.
                    "They fired first,we can't do less than get back at
                        them," I said, between the blows of the battering-ram.
                    A panel of the great oak door now splintered in, but in their fear that we
                        might use the opening as a loophole, they scampered out into range of
                        Bates' revolver. In return we heard a rain of small shot on the
                        upper windows, and a few seconds later Larry shovted that the flanking party
                        was again at the terrace.
                    This movement evidently heartened the sheriff, for, under a fire from Bates,
                        his men rushed up and the log crashed again into the door, shaking it free
                        of the upper hinges. The lower fastenings were wrenched loose an instant
                        later, and the men came tumbling into the hall,the sheriff, Morgan and four
                        others I had never seen before. Simultaneously the flanking party reached
                        the terrace and were smashing the small panes of the French windows. We
                        could hear the glass crack and tinkle above the confusion at the door.
                    In the hall he was certainly a lucky man who held to his weapon a moment
                        after the door tumbled in. I blazed at the sheriff with my revolver as he
                        stumbled  and half-fell at the threshold, so
                        that the ball passed over him, but he gripped me by the legs and had me
                        prone and half-dazed by the rap of my head on the floor.
                    I suppose I was two or three minutes, at least, getting my wits. I was first
                        conscious of Bates grappling the sheriff, who sat upon me, and as they
                        struggled with each other I got the full benefit of their combined,
                        swerving, tossing weight. Morgan and Larry were trying for a chance at each
                        other with revolvers, while Morgan backed the Irishman slowly toward the
                        library. Stoddard had seized one of the unknown deputies with both hands by
                        the collar and gave his captive a tremendous swing, jerking him high in the
                        air and driving him against another invader with a blow that knocked both
                        fellows spinning into a corner.
                    "Come on to the library!" shouted Larry, and Bates, who had
                        got me to my feet, dragged me down the hall toward the open library-door.
                    Bates presented at this moment an extraordinary appearance, with the blood
                        from the scratch on his face coursing down his cheek and upon his shoulder.
                        His coat and shirt had been torn away and the blood was smeared over his
                        breast. The fury and indignation in his face was something I hope not to see
                        again in a human countenance.
                    "My God, this roomthis beautiful room!" I heard  him cry, as he pushed me before him into the
                        library.
                    "It was Mr. Glenarm's pride," he muttered, and
                        sprang upon a burly fellow who had come in through one of the library doors
                        and was climbing over the long table we had set up as a barricade.
                    We were now between two fires. The sheriff's party had fought
                        valiantly to keep us out of the library, and now that we were within,
                        Stoddard's big shoulders held the door half-closed against the
                        combined strength of the men in the hall. This pause was fortunate, for it
                        gave us an opportunity to deal singly with the fellows who were climbing in
                        from the terrace. Bates had laid one of them low with a club and Larry
                        disposed of another, who had made a murderous effort to stick a knife into
                        him. I was with Stoddard against the door, where the sheriff's men
                        were slowly gaining upon us.
                    "Let go on the jump when I say three," said Stoddard, and
                        at his word we sprang away from the door and into the room. Larry yelled
                        with joy as the sheriff and his men pitched forward and sprawled upon the
                        floor, and we were at it again in a hand-to-hand conflict to clear the room.
                    "Hold that position, sir," yelled Bates.
                    Morgan had directed the attack against me and I was driven upon the hearth
                        before the great fireplace. The sheriff, Morgan and Ferguson hemmed me in.
                        It was  evident that I was the chief culprit,
                        and they wished to eliminate me from the contest. Across the room, Larry,
                        Stoddard and Bates were engaged in a lively rough and tumble with the rest
                        of the besiegers, and Stoddard, seeing my plight, leaped the overturned
                        table, broke past the trio and stood at my side, swinging a chair.
                    At that moment my eyes, sweeping the outer doors, saw the face of Pickering.
                        He had come to see that his orders were obeyed, and I remember yet my
                        satisfaction, as, hemmed in by the men he had hired to kill me or drive me
                        out, I felt, rather than saw, the cowardly horror depicted upon his face.
                    Then the trio pressed in upon me. As I threw down my club and drew my
                        revolver, some one across the room fired several shots, whose roar through
                        the room seemed to arrest the fight for an instant, and then, while Stoddard
                        stood at my side swinging his chair defensively, the great chandelier,
                        loosened or broken by the shots, fell with a mighty crash of its crystal
                        pendants. The sheriff, leaping away from Stoddard's club, was
                        struck on the head and borne down by the heavy glass.
                    Smoke from the firing floated in clouds across the room, and there was a
                        moment's silence save for the sheriff, who was groaning and cursing
                        under the debris of the chandelier. At the door Pickering's face
                        appeared  again anxious and frightened. I
                        think the scene in the room and the slow progress his men were making
                        against us had half-paralyzed him.
                    We were all getting our second wind for a renewal of the fight, with Morgan
                        in command of the enemy. One or two of his men, who had gone down early in
                        the struggle, were now crawling back for revenge. I think I must have raised
                        my hand and pointed at Pickering, for Bates wheeled like a flash and before
                        I realized what happened he had dragged the executor into the room.
                    "You scoundrelyou ingrate!" howled the servant.
                    The blood on his face and bare chest and the hatred in his eyes made him a
                        hideous object; but in that lull of the storm while we waited, watching for
                        an advantage, I heard off somewhere, above or below, that same sound of
                        footsteps that I had remarked before. Larry and Stoddard heard it; Bates
                        heard it, and his eyes fixed upon Pickering with a glare of malicious
                        delight.
                    "There comes our old friend, the ghost," yelled Larry.
                    "I think you are quite right, sir," said Bates. He threw
                        down the revolver he held in his hand and leaned upon the edge of the long
                        table that lay on its side, his gaze still bent on Pickering, who stood with
                        his overcoat buttoned close, his derby hat on the floor beside him, where it
                        had fallen as Bates hauled him into the room.
                    
                    The sound of a measured step, of some one walking, of a careful foot on a
                        stairway, was quite distinct. I even remarked the slight stumble that I had
                        noticed before.
                    We were all so intent on those steps in the wall that we were off guard. I
                        heard Bates yell at me, and Larry and Stoddard rushed for Pickering. He had
                        drawn a revolver from his overcoat pocket and thrown it up to fire at me
                        when Stoddard sent the weapon flying through the air.
                    "Only a moment now, gentlemen," said Bates, an odd smile on
                        his face. He was looking past me toward the right end of the fireplace.
                        There seemed to be in the air a feeling of something impending. Even Morgan
                        and his men, half-crouching ready for a rush at me, hesitated; and Pickering
                        glanced nervously from one to the other of us. It was the calm before the
                        storm; in a moment we should be at each other's throats for the
                        final struggle, and yet we waited. In the wall I heard still the sound of
                        steps. They were clear to all of us now.
                    We stood there for what seemed an eternityI suppose the time was really not
                        more than thirty secondsinert, waiting, while I felt that something must
                        happen; the silence, the waiting, were intolerable. I grasped my pistol and
                        bent low for a spring at Morgan, with the overturned table and wreckage of
                        the chandelier between me  and Pickering; and
                        every man in the room was instantly on the alert.
                    All but Bates. He remained rigidthat curious smile on his blood-smeared face,
                        his eyes bent toward the end of the great fireplace back of me.
                    That look on his face held, arrested, numbed me; I followed it. I forgot
                        Morgan; a tacit truce held us all again. I stepped back till my eyes
                        fastened on the broad paneled chimney-breast at the right of the hearth, and
                        it was there now that the sound of footsteps in the wall was heard again;
                        then it ceased utterly, the long panel opened slowly, creaking slightly upon
                        its hinges, then down into the room stepped Marian Devereux. She wore the
                        dark gown in which I had seen her last, and a cloak was drawn over her
                        shoulders.
                    She laughed as her eyes swept the room.
                    "Ah, gentlemen," she said, shaking her head, as she viewed
                        our disorder, "what wretched housekeepers you are!"
                    Steps were again heard in the wall, and she turned to the panel, held it open
                        with one hand and put out the other, waiting for some one who followed her.
                    Then down into the room stepped my grandfather, John Marshall Glenarm! His
                        staff, his cloak, the silk hat above his shrewd face, and his sharp black
                        eyes were  unmistakable. He drew a silk
                        handkerchief from the skirts of his frock coat, with a characteristic
                        flourish that I remembered well, and brushed a bit of dust from his cloak
                        before looking at any of us. Then his eyes fell upon me.
                    "Good morning, Jack," he said; and his gaze swept the room.
                    "God help us!"
                    It was Morgan, I think, who screamed these words as he bolted for the broken
                        door, but Stoddard caught and held him.
                    "Thank God, you're here, sir!" boomed forth in
                        Bates' sepulchral voice.
                    It seemed to me that I saw all that happened with a weird, unnatural
                        distinctness, as one sees, before a storm, vivid outlines of far headlands
                        that the usual light of day scarce discloses.
                    I was myself dazed and spellbound; but I do not like to think, even now, of
                        the effect of my grandfather's appearance on Arthur Pickering; of
                        the shock that seemed verily to break him in two, so that he staggered, then
                        collapsed, his head falling as though to strike his knees. Larry caught him
                        by the collar and dragged him to a seat, where he huddled, his twitching
                        hands at his throat.
                    
                    "Gentlemen," said my grandfather, "you seem to
                        have been enjoying yourselves. Who is this person?"
                    He pointed with his stick to the sheriff, who was endeavoring to crawl out
                        from under the mass of broken crystals.
                    "That, sir, is the sheriff," answered Bates.
                    "A very disorderly man, I must say. Jack, what have you been doing
                        to cause the sheriff so much inconvenience? Didn't you know that
                        that chandelier was likely to kill him? That thing cost a thousand dollars,
                        gentlemen. You are expensive visitors. Ah, Morgan,and Ferguson, too! Well,
                        well! I thought better of both of you. Good morning, Stoddard! A little work
                        for the Church militant! And this gentleman?"he indicated Larry,
                        who was, for once in his life, without anything to say.
                    "Mr. Donovan,a friend of the house," explained Bates.
                    "Pleased, I'm sure," said the old gentleman.
                        "Glad the house had a friend. It seems to have had enemies
                        enough," he added dolefully; and he eyed the wreck of the room
                        ruefully. The good humor in his face reassured me; but still I stood in
                        tongue-tied wonder, staring at him.
                    "And Pickering!" John Marshall Glenarm's voice  broke with a quiet mirth that I remembered as
                        the preface usually of something unpleasant. "Well, Arthur,
                        I'm glad to find you on guard, defending the interests of my
                        estate. At the risk of your life, too! Bates!"
                    "Yes, Mr. Glenarm."
                    "You ought to have called me earlier. I really prized that
                        chandelier immensely. And this furniture wasn't so bad!"
                    His tone changed abruptly. He pointed to the sheriff's deputies one
                        after the other with his stick. There was, I remembered, always something
                        insinuating, disagreeable and final about my grandfather's staff.
                    "Clear out!" he commanded. "Bates, see these
                        fellows through the wall. Mr. Sheriff, if I were you I'd be very
                        careful, indeed, what I said of this affair. I'm a dead man come to
                        life again, and I know a great deal that I didn't know before I
                        died. Nothing, gentlemen, fits a man for life like a temporary absence from
                        this cheerful and pleasant world. I recommend you to try it."
                    He walked about the room with the quick eager step that was peculiarly his
                        own, while Stoddard, Larry and I stared at him. Bates was helping the dazed
                        sheriff to his feet. Morgan and the rest of the foe were crawling and
                        staggering away, muttering, as though imploring the air of heaven against an
                        evil spirit.
                    
                    Pickering sat silent, not sure whether he saw a ghost or real flesh and
                        blood, and Larry kept close to him, cutting off his retreat. I think we all
                        experienced that bewildered feeling of children who are caught in mischief
                        by a sudden parental visitation. My grandfather went about peering at the
                        books, with a tranquil air that was disquieting.
                    He paused suddenly before the design for the memorial tablet, which I had
                        made early in my stay at Glenarm House. I had sketched the lettering with
                        some care, and pinned it against a shelf for my more leisurely study of its
                        phrases. The old gentlemen pulled out his glasses and stood with his hands
                        behind his back, reading. When he finished he walked to where I stood.
                    "Jack!" he said, "Jack, my boy!" His
                        voice shook and his hands trembled as he laid them on my shoulders.
                        "Marian,"he turned, seeking her, but the girl had
                        vanished. "Just as well," he said. "This room is
                        hardly an edifying sight for a woman." I heard, for an instant, a
                        light hurried step in the wall.
                    Pickering, too, heard that faint, fugitive sound, and our eyes met at the
                        instant it ceased. The thought of her tore my heart, and I felt that
                        Pickering saw and knew and was glad.
                    "They have all gone, sir," reported Bates, returning to the
                        room.
                    
                    "Now, gentlemen," began my grandfather, seating himself,
                        "I owe you an apology; this little secret of mine was shared by
                        only two persons. One of these was Bates,"he paused as an
                        exclamation broke from all of us; and he went on, enjoying our
                        amazement,"and the other was Marian Devereux. I had often observed
                        that at a man's death his property gets into the wrong hands, or
                        becomes a bone of contention among lawyers. Sometimes," and the old
                        gentleman laughed, "an executor proves incompetent or dishonest. I
                        was thoroughly fooled in you, Pickering. The money you owe me is a large
                        sum; and you were so delighted to hear of my death that you didn't
                        even make sure I was really out of the way. You were perfectly willing to
                        accept Bates word for it; and I must say that Bates carried it off
                        splendidly."
                    Pickering rose, the blood surging again in his face, and screamed at Bates,
                        pointing a shaking finger at the man.
                    "You impostor,you perjurer! The law will deal with your
                        case."
                    "To be sure," resumed my grandfather calmly;
                        "Bates did make false affidavits about my death; but
                        possibly"
                    "It was in a Pickwickian sense, sir," said Bates gravely.
                    
                    "And in a righteous cause," declared my grandfather.
                    "I assure you, Pickering, that I have every intention of taking care
                        of Bates. His weekly letters giving an account of the curious manifestations
                        of your devotion to Jack's security and peace were alone worth a
                        goodly sum. But, Bates"
                    The old gentleman was enjoying himself hugely. He chuckled now, and placed
                        his hand on my shoulder.
                    "Bates, it was too bad I got those missives of yours all in a bunch.
                        I was in a dahabiyeh on the Nile and they don't
                        have rural free delivery in Egypt. Your cablegram called me home before I
                        got the letters. But thank God, Jack, you're alive!"
                    There was real feeling in these last words, and I think we were all touched
                        by them.
                    "Amen to that!" cried Bates.
                    "And now, Pickering, before you go I want to show you something.
                        It's about this mysterious treasure, that has given youand I hear,
                        the whole countrysideso much concern. I'm disappointed in you,
                        Jack, that you couldn't find the hiding-place. I designed that as a
                        part of your architectural education. Bates, give me a chair."
                    The man gravely drew a chair out of the wreckage and placed it upon the
                        hearth. My grandfather stepped upon it, seized one of the bronze sconces
                        above the mantel  and gave it a sharp turn. At
                        the same moment, Bates, upon another chair, grasped the companion bronze and
                        wrenched it sharply. Instantly some mechanism creaked in the great oak
                        chimney-breast and the long oak panels swung open, disclosing a steel door
                        with a combination knob.
                    "Gentlemen,"and my grandfather turned with a quaint touch
                        of humor, and a merry twinkle in his bright old eyes"gentlemen,
                        behold the treasury! It has proved a better hiding-place than I ever
                        imagined it would. There's not much here, Jack, but enough to keep
                        you going for a while."
                    We were all staring, and the old gentleman was unfeignedly enjoying our
                        mystification. It was an hour on which he had evidently counted much; it was
                        the triumph of his resurrection and home-coming, and he chuckled as he
                        twirled the knob in the steel door. Then Bates stepped forward and helped
                        him pull the door open, disclosing a narrow steel chest, upright and held in
                        place by heavy bolts clamped in the stone of the chimney. It was filled with
                        packets of papers placed on shelves, and tied neatly with tape.
                    "Jack," said my grandfather, shaking his head,
                        "you wouldn't be an architect, and you're not
                        much of an engineer either, or you'd have seen that that paneling
                             was heavier than was necessary.
                        There's two hundred thousand dollars in first-rate securitiesI
                        vouch for them! Bates and I put them there just before I went to Vermont to
                        die."
                    "I've sounded those panels a dozen times," I
                        protested.
                    "Of course you have," said my grandfather, "but
                        solid steel behind wood is safe. I tested it carefully before I
                        left."
                    He laughed and clapped his knees, and I laughed with him.
                    "But you found the Door of Bewilderment and Pickering's
                        notes, and that's something."
                    "No; I didn't even find that. Donovan deserves the credit.
                        But how did you ever come to build that tunnel, if you don't mind
                        telling me?"
                    He laughed gleefully.
                    "That was originally a trench for natural-gas pipes.
                    There was once a large pumping-station on the site of this house, with a big
                        trunk main running off across country to supply the towns west of here. The
                        gas was exhausted, and the pipes were taken up before I began to build. I
                        should never have thought of that tunnel in the world if the trench
                        hadn't suggested it. I merely deepened and widened it a little and
                        plastered it with  cheap cement as far as the
                        chapel, and that little room there where I put Pickering's notes
                        had once been the cellar of a house built for the superintendent of the gas
                        plant. I had never any idea that I should use that passage as a means of
                        getting into my own house, but Marian met me at the station, told me that
                        there was trouble here, and came with me through the chapel into the cellar,
                        and through the hidden stairway that winds around the chimney from that room
                        where we keep the candlesticks."
                    "But who was the ghost?" I demanded, "if you were
                        really alive and in Egypt?"
                    Bates laughed now.
                    "Oh, I was the ghost! I went through there occasionally to stimulate
                        your curiosity about the house. And you nearly caught me once!"
                    "One thing more, if we're not wearing you outI'd
                        like to know whether Sister Theresa owes you any money."
                    My grandfather turned upon Pickering with blazing eyes.
                    "You scoundrel, you infernal scoundrel, Sister Theresa never
                        borrowed a cent of me in her life! And you have made war on that
                        woman"
                    His rage choked him.
                    
                    He told Bates to close the door of the steel chest, and then turned to me.
                    "Where are those notes of Pickering's?" he
                        demanded; and I brought the packet.
                    "Gentlemen, Mr. Pickering has gone to ugly lengths in this affair.
                        How many murders have you gentlemen committed?"
                    "We were about to begin actual killing when you arrived,"
                        replied Larry, grinning.
                    "The sheriff got all his men off the premises more or less alive,
                        sir," said Bates.
                    "That is good. It was all a great mistake,a very great
                        mistake,"and my grandfather turned to Pickering.
                    "Pickering, what a contemptible scoundrel you are! I lent you that
                        three hundred thousand dollars to buy securities to give you better standing
                        in your railroad enterprises, and the last time I saw you, you got me to
                        release the collateral so you could raise money to buy more shares. Then,
                        after I died"he chuckled"you thought you'd find
                        and destroy the notes and that would end the transaction; and if you had
                        been smart enough to find them you might have had them and welcome. But as
                        it is, they go to Jack. If he shows any mercy an you in collecting them
                        he's not the boy I think he is."
                    
                    Pickering rose, seized his hat and turned toward the shattered library-door.
                        He paused for one moment, his face livid with rage.
                    "You old fool!" he screamed at my grandfather.
                        "You old lunatic, I wish to God I had never seen you! No wonder you
                        came back to life! You're a tricky old devil and too mean to
                        die!"
                    He turned toward me with some similar complaint ready at his
                        tongue's end; but Stoddard caught him by the shoulders and thrust
                        him out upon the terrace.
                    A moment later we saw him cross the meadow and hurry toward St.
                        Agatha's.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    CHANGES AND CHANCES
                    John Marshall Glenarm had probably never been so happy in his life as on that
                        day of his amazing home-coming. He laughed at us and he laughed with us, and
                        as he went about the house explaining his plans for its completion, he
                        chaffed us all with his shrewd humor that had been the terror of my boyhood.
                    "Ah, if you had had the plans of course you would have been saved a
                        lot of trouble; but that little sketch of the Door of Bewilderment was the
                        only thing I left,and you found it, Jack,you really opened these good books
                        of mine."
                    He sent us all away to remove the marks of battle, and we gave Bates a hand
                        in cleaning up the wreckage,Bates, the keeper of secrets; Bates, the
                        inscrutable and mysterious; Bates, the real hero of the affair at Glenarm.
                    He led us through the narrow stairway by which he had entered, which had been
                        built between false walls, and we played ghost for one another, to show just
                        how the tread of a human being around the chimney sounded. There was much to
                        explain, and my grandfather's 
                        contrition for having placed me in so hazardous a predicament was so
                        sincere, and his wish to make amends so evident, that my heart warmed to
                        him. He made me describe in detail all the incidents of my stay at the
                        house, listening with boyish delight to my adventures.
                    "Bless my soul!" he exclaimed over and over again. And as I
                        brought my two friends into the story his delight knew no bounds, and he
                        kept chuckling to himself; and insisted half a dozen times on shaking hands
                        with Larry and Stoddard, who were, he declared, his friends as well as mine.
                    The prisoner in the potato cellar received our due attention; and my
                        grandfather's joy in the fact that an agent of the British
                        government was held captive in Glenarm House was cheering to see. But the
                        man's detention was a grave matter, as we all realized, and made
                        imperative the immediate consideration of Larry's future.
                    "I must goand go at once!" declared Larry.
                    "Mr. Donovan, I should feel honored to have you remain,"
                        said my grandfather. "I hope to hold Jack here, and I wish you
                        would share the house with us."
                    "The sheriff and those fellows won't squeal very hard about
                        their performances here," said Stoddard. "And they
                        won't try to rescue the prisoner, even for a reward, from a house
                        where the dead come back to life."
                    
                    "No; but you can't hold a British prisoner in an American
                        private house for ever. Too many people know he has been in this part of the
                        country; and you may be sure that the fight here and the return of Mr.
                        Glenarm will not fail of large advertisement. All I can ask of you, Mr.
                        Glenarm, is that you hold the fellow a few hours after I leave, to give me a
                        start."
                    "Certainly. But when this trouble of yours blows over, I hope you
                        will come back and help Jack to live a decent and orderly life."
                    My grandfather spoke of my remaining with a warmth that was grateful to my
                        heart; but the place and its associations had grown unbearable. I had not
                        mentioned Marian Devereux to him, I had not told him of my Christmas flight
                        to Cincinnati; for the fact that I had run away and forfeited my right made
                        no difference now, and I waited for an opportunity when we should be alone
                        to talk of my own affairs.
                    At luncheon, delayed until mid-afternoon, Bates produced champagne, and the
                        three of us, worn with excitement and stress of battle, drank a toast,
                        standing, to the health of John Marshall Glenarm.
                    "My friends,"the old gentleman rose and we all stood, our
                        eyes bent upon him in, I think, real affection,"I am an old and
                        foolish man. Ever since I was able to do so I have indulged my whims. This
                        house  is one of them. I had wished to make it
                        a thing of beauty and dignity, and I had hoped that Jack would care for it
                        and be willing to complete it and settle here. The means I employed to test
                        him were not, I admit, worthy of a man who intends well toward his own flesh
                        and blood. Those African adventures of yours scared me, Jack; but to
                        think"and he laughed"that I placed you here in this
                        peaceful place amid greater dangers probably than you ever met in
                        tiger-hunting! But you have put me to shame. Here's health and
                        peace to you!"
                    "So say we all!" cried the others.
                    "One thing more," my grandfather continued, "I
                        don't want you to think, Jack, that you would really have been cut
                        off under any circumstances if I had died while I was hiding in Egypt. What
                        I wanted, boy, was to get you home! I made another will in England, where I
                        deposited the bulk of my property before I died, and did not forget you.
                        That will was to protect you in case I really
                        died!"and he laughed cheerily.
                    The others left usStoddard to help Larry get his things togetherand my
                        grandfather and I talked for an hour at the table.
                    "I have thought that many things might happen here," I
                        said, watching his fine, slim fingers, as he polished his eye-glasses, then
                        rested his elbows on the table  and smiled at
                        me. "I thought for a while that I should certainly be shot; then at
                        times I was afraid I might not be; but your return in the flesh was
                        something I never considered among the possibilities. Bates fooled me. That
                        talk I overheard between him and Pickering in the church porch that foggy
                        night was the thing that seemed to settle his case; then the next thing I
                        knew he was defending the house at the serious risk of his life; and I was
                        more puzzled than ever."
                    "Yes, a wonderful man, Bates. He always disliked Pickering, and he
                        rejoiced in tricking him."
                    "Where did you pick Bates up? He told me he was a Yankee, but he
                        doesn't act or talk it."
                    My grandfather laughed. "Of course not! He's an Irishman
                        and a man of educationbut that's all I know about him, except that
                        he is a marvelously efficient servant."
                    My mind was not on Bates. I was thinking now of Marian Devereux. I could not
                        go on further with my grandfather without telling him how I had run away and
                        broken faith with him, but he gave me no chance.
                    "You will stay on here,you will help me to finish the
                        house?" he asked with an unmistakable eagerness of look and tone.
                    It seemed harsh and ungenerous to tell him that I wished to go; that the
                        great world lay beyond the confines  of
                        Glenarm for me to conquer; that I had lost as well as gained by those few
                        months at Glenarm House, and wished to go away. It was not the mystery, now
                        fathomed, nor the struggle, now ended, that was uppermost in my mind and
                        heart, but memories of a girl who had mocked me with delicious girlish
                        laughter,who had led me away that I might see her transformed into another,
                        more charming, being. It was a comfort to know that Pickering, trapped and
                        defeated, was not to benefit by the bold trick she had helped him play upon
                        me. His loss was hers as well, and I was glad in my bitterness that I had
                        found her in the passage, seeking for plunder at the behest of the same
                        master whom Morgan, Ferguson and the rest of them served.
                    The fight was over and there was nothing more for me to do in the house by
                        the lake. After a week or so I should go forth and try to win a place for
                        myself. I had my profession; I was an engineer, and I did not question that
                        I should be able to find employment. As for my grandfather, Bates would care
                        for him, and should visit him often. I was resolved not to give him any
                        further cause for anxiety on account of my adventurous and roving ways. He
                        knew well enough that his old hope of making an architect of me was lost
                        beyond redemptionI had told him thatand now I wished to depart in peace and
                        go to some new part of the world,  where there
                        were lines to run, tracks to lay and bridges to build.
                    These thoughts so filled my mind that I forgot he was patiently waiting for
                        my answer.
                    "I should like to do anything you ask; I should like to stay here
                        always, but I can't. Don't misunderstand me. I have no
                        intention of going back to my old ways. I squandered enough money in my
                        wanderings, and I had my joy of that kind of thing. I shall find employment
                        somewhere and go to work."
                    "But, Jack,"he bent toward me kindly,"Jack, you
                        mustn't be led away by any mere quixotism into laying the
                        foundation of your own fortune. What I have is yours, boy. What is in the
                        box in the chimney is yours nowto-day."
                    "I wish you wouldn't! You were always too kind, and I
                        deserve nothing, absolutely nothing."
                    "I'm not trying to pay you, Jack. I want to ease my own
                        conscience, that's all."
                    "But money can do nothing for mine," I replied, trying t
                    smile. "I've been dependent all my days, and now
                        I'm going to work. If you were infirm and needed me, I should not
                        hesitate, but the world will have its eyes on me now."
                    "Jack, that will of mine did you a great wrong; it put a mark upon
                        you, and that's what hurts me, that's  what I want to make amends for! Don't you see? Now
                        don't punish me, boy. Come! Let us be friends!"
                    He rose and put out his hands.
                    "I didn't mean that! I don't care about that! It
                        was nothing more than I deserved. These months here have changed me.
                        Haven't you heard me say I was going to work?"
                    And I tried to laugh away further discussion of my future.
                    "It will be more cheerful here in the spring," he said, as
                        though seeking an inducement for me to remain. "When the resort
                        colony down here comes to life the lake is really gay."
                    I shook my head. The lake, that pretty cupful of water, the dip and glide of
                        a certain canoe, the remembrance of a red tam-o'-shanter merging
                        afar off in an October sunsetmy purpose to leave the place strengthened as I
                        thought of these things. My nerves were keyed to a breaking pitch and I
                        turned upon him stormily.
                    "So Miss Devereux was the other person who shared your confidence!
                        Do you understand,do you appreciate the fact that she was
                        Pickering's ally?"
                    "I certainty do not," he replied coldly.
                        "I'm surprised to hear you speak so of a woman whom you
                        can scarcely know"
                    
                    "Yes, I know her; my God, I have reason to know her! But even when I
                        found her out I did not dream that the plot was as deep as it is. She knew
                        that it was a scheme to test me, and she played me into Pickering's
                        hands. I saw her only a few nights ago down there in the tunnel acting as
                        his spy, looking for the lost notes that she might gain grace in his eyes by
                        turning them over to him. You know I always hated Pickering,he was too
                        smooth, too smug, and you and everybody else were for ever praising him to
                        me. He was always held up to me as a model; and the first time I saw Marian
                        Devereux she was with himit was at Sherry's the night before I came
                        here. I suppose she reached St. Agatha's only a few hours ahead of
                        me."
                    "Yes. Sister Theresa was her guardian. Her father was a dear friend,
                        and I knew her from her early childhood. You are mistaken, Jack. Her knowing
                        Pickering means nothing,they both lived in New York and moved in the same
                        circle."
                    "But it doesn't explain her efforts to help him, does
                        it?" I blazed. "He wished to marry her,Sister Theresa told
                        me that,and I failed, I failed miserably to keep my obligation hereI ran
                        away to follow her!"
                    "Ah, to be sure! You were away Christmas Eve, when those vandals
                        broke in. Bates merely mentioned it in the last report I got as I came
                        through New York.  That was all right. I
                        assumed, of course, that you had gone off somewhere to get a little
                        Christmas cheer; I don't care anything about it."
                    "But I had followed herI went to Cincinnati to see
                        her. She dared me to comeit was a trick, a part of the conspiracy to steal
                        your property."
                    The old gentleman smiled. It was a familiar way of his, to grow calm as other
                        people waxed angry.
                    "She dared you to come, did she! That is quite like Marian; but you
                        didn't have to go, did you, Jack?"
                    "Of course not; of course I didn't have to go,
                        but"
                    I stammered, faltered and ceased. Memory threw open her portals with a
                        challenge. I saw her on the stairway at the Armstrongs'; I heard
                        her low, soft laughter, I felt the mockery of her voice and eyes! I knew
                        again the exquisite delight of being near her. My heart told me well enough
                        why I had followed her.
                    "Jack, I'm glad I'm not buried up there in that
                        Vermont graveyard with nobody to exercise the right of guardianship over
                        you. I've had my misgivings about you; I used to think you were a
                        born tramp; and you disappointed me in turning your back on architecture,the
                        noblest of all professions; but this performance of yours really beats them
                        all. Don't you know that a girl like Marian Devereux isn't
                        likely to become the agent of any rascal? Do you really believe for a minute
                        that she  tempted you to follow her, so you
                        might forfeit your rights to my property?"
                    "But why was she trying to find those notes of his? Why did she come
                        back from Cincinnati with his party? If you could answer me those things,
                        maybe I'd admit that I'm a fool. Pickering, I imagine, is
                        a pretty plausible fellow where women are concerned."
                    "For God's sake, Jack, don't speak of that girl as
                        women! I put her in that will of mine to pique your curiosity, knowing that
                        if there was a penalty on your marrying her you would be wholly likely to do
                        it,for that's the way human beings are made. But you've
                        mixed it all up now, and insulted her in the grossest way possible for a
                        fellow who is really a gentleman. And I don't want to lose you; I
                        want you here with me, Jack! This is a beautiful country, this Indiana! And
                        what I want to do is to found an estate, to build a house that shall be
                        really beautiful,something these people hereabouts can be proud of,and I
                        want you to have it with me, Jack, to link our name to these woods and that
                        pretty lake. I'd rather have that for my neighbor than any lake in
                        Scotland. These rich Americans, who go to England to live, don't
                        appreciate the beauty of their own country. This landscape is worthy of the
                        best that man can do. And I didn't undertake to build a crazy house
                        so much as  one that should have some dignity
                        and character. That passage around the chimney is an indulgence,
                        Jack,I'll admit it's a little bizarre,you see that chimney
                        isn't so big outside as it is in!"and he laughed and
                        rubbed his knees with the palms of his hands,"and my bringing
                        foreign laborers here wasn't really to make it easier to get things
                        done my way. Wait till you have seen the May-apples blossom and heard the
                        robins sing in the summer twilight,help me to finish the house,then if you
                        want to leave I'll bid you God-speed."
                    The feeling in his tone, the display of sentiment so at variance with my old
                        notion of him, touched me in spite of myself. There was a characteristic
                        nobility and dignity in his plan; it was worthy of him. And I had never
                        loved him as now, when he finished this appeal, and turned away to the
                        window, gazing out upon the somber woodland.
                    "Mr. Donovan is ready to go, sir," announced Bates at the
                        door, and we went into the library, where Larry and Stoddard were
                    waiting.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    SHORTER VISTAS
                    Larry had assembled his effects in the library, and to my surprise, Stoddard
                        appeared with his own hand-bag.
                    "I'm going to see Donovan well on his way," said
                        the clergyman.
                    "It's a pity our party must break up," exclaimed
                        my grandfather. "My obligations to Mr. Donovan are very greatand to
                        you, too, Stoddard. Jack's friends are mine hereafter, and when we
                        get new doors for Glenarm House you shall honor me by accepting duplicate
                        keys."
                    "Where's Bates?" asked Larry, and the man came in,
                        respectfully, inperturbably as always, and began gathering up the bags.
                    "Stopone moment! Mr. Glenarm," said Larry. "Before
                        I go I want to congratulate you on the splendid courage of this man who has
                        served you and your house with so much faithfulness and tact. And I want to
                        tell you something else, that you probably would never learn from
                        him"
                    
                    "Donovan!" There was a sharp cry in Bates' voice,
                        and he sprang forward with his hands outstretched entreatingly. But Larry
                        did not heed him.
                    "The moment I set eyes on this man I recognized him. It's
                        not fair to you or to him that you should not know him for what he is. Let
                        me introduce an old friend, Walter Creighton; he was a student at Dublin
                        when I was there,I remember him as one of the best fellows in the
                        world."
                    "For God's sakeno!" pleaded Bates. He was deeply
                        moved and turned his face away from us.
                    "But, like me," Larry went on, "he mixed in
                        politics. One night in a riot at Dublin a constable was killed. No one knew
                        who was guilty, but a youngster was suspected,the son of one of the richest
                        and best-known men in Ireland, who happened to get mixed in the row. To draw
                        attention from the boy, Creighton let suspicion attach to his own name, and,
                        to help the boy's case further, ran away. I had not heard from or
                        of him until the night I came here and found him the defender of this house.
                        By God! that was no servant's trick,it was the act of a royal
                        gentleman."
                    They clasped hands; and with a new light in his face, with a new manner, as
                        though he resumed, as a familiar garment, an old disused personality, Bates
                        stood transfigured in the twilight, a man and a gentleman. I think  we were all drawn to him; I know that a sob
                        clutched my throat and tears filled my eyes as I grasped his hand.
                    "But what in the devil did you do it for?" blurted my
                        grandfather, excitedly twirling his glasses.
                    Bates (I still call him Bates,he insists on it) laughed. For the first time
                        he thrust his hands into his pockets and stood at his ease, one of us.
                    "Larry, you remember I showed a fondness for the stage in our
                        university days. When I got to America I had little money and found it
                        necessary to find employment without delay. I saw Mr. Glenarm's
                        advertisement for a valet. Just as a lark I answered it to see what an
                        American gentleman seeking a valet looked like. I fell in love with Mr.
                        Glenarm at sight"
                    "It was mutual!" declared my grandfather. "I never
                        believed your story at all,you were too perfect in the part!"
                    "Well, I didn't greatly mind the valet business; it helped
                        to hide my identity; and I did like the humor and whims of Mr. Glenarm. The
                        housekeeping, after we came out here, wasn't so
                        pleasant"he looked at his hands ruefully"but this joke of
                        Mr. Glenarm's making a will and then going to Egypt to see what
                        would happen,that was too good to miss. And when the heir arrived I found
                        new opportunities of practising amateur theatricals; and
                        Pickering's efforts to enlist  me in
                        his scheme for finding the money and making me rich gave me still greater
                        opportunities. There were times when I was strongly tempted to blurt the
                        whole thing; I got tired of being suspected, and of playing ghost in the
                        wall; and if Mr. Glenarm hadn't got here just as he did I should
                        have stopped the fight and proclaimed the truth. I hope," he said,
                        turning to me, "you have no hard feelings, sir." And he
                        threw into the "sir" just a touch of irony that made us
                        all roar.
                    "I'm certainly glad I'm not dead,"
                        declared my grandfather, staring at Bates. "Life is more fun than I
                        ever thought possible. Bless my soul!" he said, "if it
                        isn't a shame that Bates can never cook another omelette for
                        me!"
                    We sent Bates back with my grandfather from the boat-house, and Stoddard,
                        Larry and I started across the ice; the light coating of snow made walking
                        comparatively easy. We strode on silently, Stoddard leading. Their plan was
                        to take an accommodation train at the first station beyond Annandale, leave
                        it at a town forty miles away, and then hurry east to an obscure place in
                        the mountains of Virginia, where a religious order maintained a house. There
                        Stoddard promised Larry asylum and no questions asked.
                    We left the lake and struck inland over a rough country  road to the station, where Stoddard purchased tickets only a
                        few minutes before the train whistled.
                    We stood on the lonely platform, hands joined to hands, and I know not what
                        thoughts in our minds and hearts.
                    "We've met and we've said good-by in many odd
                        corners of this strange old world," said Larry, "and God
                        knows when we shall meet again."
                    "But you must stay in Americathere must be no sea between
                        us!" I declared.
                    "Donovan's sins don't seem heinous to me!
                        It's simply that they've got to find a
                        scapegoat,"and Stoddard's voice was all sympathy and
                        kindness. "It will blow over in time, and Donovan will become an
                        enlightened and peaceable American citizen."
                    There was a constraint upon us all at this moment of partingso many things
                        had happened that dayand when men have shared danger together they are bound
                        by ties that death only can break. Larry's effort at cheer struck a
                        little hollowly upon us.
                    "Beware, lad, of women!" he importuned me.
                    "Humph! You still despise the sex on account of that affair with the
                        colleen of the short upper lip."
                    "Verily. And the eyes of that little lady, who guided your
                        grandfather back from the other world, reminded me strongly of her! Bah,
                        these women!"
                    
                    "Precious little you know about them!" I retorted.
                    "The devil I don't!"
                    "No," said Stoddard, "invoke the angels, not the
                        devil!"
                    "Hear him! Hear him! A priest with no knowledge of the
                        world."
                    "Alas, my cloth! And you fling it at me after I have gone through
                        battle, murder and sudden death with you gentlemen!"
                    "We thank you, sir, for that last word," said Larry
                        mockingly. "I am reminded of the late Lord Alfred: 
                            
                                "I waited for the train at Coventry;
                                I hung with grooms and porters on the bridge,
                                To watch the three tall spires,"'
                            
                         he quoted, looking off through the twilight toward St.
                        Agatha's. "I can't see a blooming
                        spire!"
                    The train was now roaring down upon us and we clung to this light mood for
                        our last words. Between men, gratitude is a thing best understood in
                        silence; and these good friends, I knew, felt what I could not say.
                    "Before the year is out we shall all meet again," cried
                        Stoddard hopefully, seizing the bags.
                    "Ah, if we could only be sure of that!" I replied. And in a
                        moment they were both waving their hands to me  from the rear platform, and I strode back homeward over the lake.
                    A mood of depression was upon me; I had lost much that day, and what I had
                        gainedmy restoration to the regard of the kindly old man of my own blood,
                        who had appealed for my companionship in terms hard to denyseemed trifling
                        as I tramped over the ice. Perhaps Pickering, after all, was the real gainer
                        by the day's event. My grandfather had said nothing to allay my
                        doubts as to Marian Devereux's strange conduct, and yet his
                        confidence in her was apparently unshaken.
                    I tramped on, and leaving the lake, half-unconsciously struck into the wood
                        beyond the dividing wall, where snow-covered leaves and twigs rattled and
                        broke under my tread. I came out into an open space beyond St.
                        Agatha's, found the walk and turned toward home.
                    As I neared the main entrance to the school the door opened and a woman came
                        out under the overhanging lamp. She carried a lantern, and turned with a
                        hand outstretched to some one who followed her with careful steps.
                    "Ah, Marian," cried my grandfather, "it's
                        ever the task of youth to light the way of age."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX
                    AND SO THE LIGHT LED ME
                    He had been to see Sister Theresa, and Marian was walking with him to the
                        gate. I saw her quite plainly in the light that fell from the lamp overhead.
                        A long cloak covered her, and a fur toque capped her graceful head. My
                        grandfather and his guide were apparently in high spirits. Their laughter
                        smote harshly upon me. It seemed to shut me out,to lift a barrier against
                        me. The world lay there within the radius of that swaying light, and I hung
                        aloof, hearing her voice and jealous of the very companionship and sympathy
                        between them.
                    But the light led me. I remembered with bitterness that I had always followed
                        her,whether as Olivia, trailing in her girlish race across the snow, or as
                        the girl in gray, whom I had followed, wondering, on that night journey at
                        Christmas Eve; and I followed now. The distrust, my shattered faith, my
                        utter loneliness, could not weigh against the joy of hearing that laugh of
                        hers breaking mellowly on the night.
                    I paused to allow the two figures to widen the distance between us as they
                        traversed the path that curved  away toward
                        the chapel. I could still hear their voices, and see the lantern flash and
                        disappear. I felt an impulse to turn back, or plunge into the woodland; but
                        I was carried on uncontrollably. The light glimmered, and her voice still
                        floated back to me. It stole through the keen winter dark like a memory of
                        spring; and so her voice and the light led me.
                    Then I heard an exclamation of dismay followed by laughter in which my
                        grandfather joined merrily.
                    "Oh, never mind; we're not afraid," she exclaimed.
                    I had rounded the curve in the path where I should have seen the light; but
                        the darkness was unbroken. There was silenc for a moment, in which I drew
                        quite near to them.
                    Then my grandfather's voice broke out cheerily.
                    "Now I must go back with you! A fine person you
                        are to guide an old man! A foolish virgin, indeed, with no oil in her
                        lamp!"
                    "Please do not! Of course I'm going to see you quite to
                        your own door! I don't intend to put my hand to the lantern and
                        then turn back!"
                    "This walk isn't what it should be," said my
                        grand-father, "we'll have to provide something better in
                        the spring."
                    They were still silent and I heard him futilely striking a match. Then the
                        lantern fell, its wires rattling  as it struck
                        the ground, and the two exclaimed with re-newed merriment upon their
                        misfortune.
                    "If you will allow me!" I called out, my hand fumbling in
                        my pocket for my own match-box.
                    I have sometimes thought that there is really some sort of decent courtesy in
                        me. 'An old man caught in a rough path that was none too good at
                        best! And a girl, even though my enemy! These were, I fancy, the thoughts
                        that crossed my mind.
                    "Ah, it's Jack!" exclaimed my grandfather.
                        "Marian was showing me the way to the gate and our light went
                        out."
                    "Miss Devereux," I murmured. I have, I hope, an icy tone
                        for persons who have incurred my displeasure, and I employed it then and
                        there, with, no doubt, its fullest value.
                    She and my grandfather were groping in the dark for the lost lantern, and I,
                        putting out my hand, touched her fingers.
                    "I beg your pardon," she murmured frostily.
                    Then I found and grasped the lantern.
                    "One moment," I said, "and I'll see
                        what's the trouble."
                    I thought my grandfather took it, but the flame of my wax match showed her
                        fingers, clasping the wires of the lantern. The cloak slipped away, showing
                        her arm's  soft curve, the blue and
                        white of her bodice, the purple blur of violets; and for a second I saw her
                        face, with a smile quivering about her lips. My grandfather was beating
                        impatiently with his stick, urging us to leave the lantern and go on.
                    "Let it alone," he said. "I'll go down
                        through the chapel; there's a lantern in there somewhere,"
                    "I'm awfully sorry," she remarked; "but I
                        recently lost my best lantern!"
                    To be sure she had! I was angry that she should so brazenly recall the night
                        I found her looking for Pickering's notes in the passage at the
                        Door of Bewilderment!
                    She had lifted the lantern now, and I was striving to touch the wax taper to
                        the wick, with imminent danger to my bare fingers.
                    "They don't really light well when the oil's
                        out," she observed, with an exasperating air of wisdom.
                    I took it from her hand and shook it close to my ear.
                    "Yes; of course, it's empty," I muttered
                        disdainfully.
                    "Oh, Mr. Glenarm!" she cried, turning away toward my
                        grandfather.
                    I heard his stick beating the rough path several yards away. He was hastening
                        toward Glenarm House.
                    "I think Mr. Glenarm has gone home."
                    "Oh, that is too bad!" she exclaimed.
                    
                    "Thank you! He's probably at the chapel by this time. If
                        you will permit me"
                    "Not at all!"
                    A man well advanced in the sixties should not tax his arteries too severely.
                        I was quite sure that my grand-father ran up the chapel steps; I could hear
                        his stick beating hurriedly on the stone.
                    "If you wish to go farther"I began.
                    I was indignant at my grandfather's conduct; he had deliberately run
                        off, leaving me alone with a young woman whom I particularly wished to
                        avoid.
                    "Thank you; I shall go back now. I was merely walking to the gate
                        with Mr. Glenarm. It is so fine to have him back again, so
                        unbelievable!"
                    It was just such a polite murmur as one might employ in speaking to an old
                        foe at a friend's table.
                    She listened a moment for his step; then, apparently satisfied, turned back
                        toward St. Agatha's. I followed, uncertain, hesitating, marking her
                        definite onward flight. From the folds of the cloak stole the faint perfume
                        of violets. The sight of her, the sound of her voice, combined to createand
                        to destroy!a mood with every step.
                    I was seeking some colorless thing to say when she spoke over her shoulder:
                    
                    "You are very kind, but I am not in the least afraid, Mr.
                        Glenarm."
                    "But there is something I wish to say to you. I should
                        like"
                    She slackened her step.
                    "Yes."
                    "I am going away."
                    "Yes; of course; you are going away."
                    Her tone implied that this was something that had been ordained from the
                        beginning of time, and did not matter.
                    "And I wish to say a word about Mr. Pickering."
                    She paused and faced me abruptly. We were at the edge of the wood, and the
                        school lay quite near. She caught the cloak closer about her and gave her
                        head a little toss I remembered well, as a trick compelled by the vagaries
                        of woman's head-dress.
                    "I can't talk to you here, Mr. Glenarm; I had no intention
                        of ever seeing you again; but I must say this"
                    "Those notes of Pickering'sI shall ask Mr. Glenarm to give
                        them to youas a mark of esteem from me."
                    She stepped backward as though I had struck her.
                    "You risked much for themfor him"I went on.
                    "Mr. Glenarm, I have no intention of discussing that, or any other
                        matter with you"
                    
                    "It is better so"
                    "But your accusations, the things you imply, are un-just,
                        infamous!"
                    The quaver in her voice shook my resolution to deal harshly with her.
                    "If I had not myself been a witness" I began.
                    "Yes; you have the conceit of your own wisdom, I dare say."
                    "But that challenge to follow you, to break my pledge; my running
                        away, only to find that Pickering was close at my heels; your visit to the
                        tunnel in search of those notes,don't you know that those things
                        were a blow that hurt? You had been the spirit of this woodland to me.
                        Through all these months, from the hour I watched you paddle off into the
                        sunset in your canoe, the thought of you made the days brighter, steadied
                        and cheered me, and wakened ambitions that I had forgottenabandonedlong ago.
                        And this hideous struggle here,it seems so idle, so worse than useless now!
                        But I'm glad I followed you,I'm glad that neither fortune
                        nor duty kept me back. And now I want you to know that Arthur Pickering
                        shall not suffer for anything that has happened. I shall make no effort to
                        punish him; for your sake he shall go free."
                    A sigh so deep that it was like a sob broke from her. She thrust forth her
                        hand entreatingly.
                    
                    "Why don't you go to him with your generosity? You are so
                        ready to believe ill of me! And I shall not defend myself; but I will say
                        these things to you, Mr. Glenarm: I had no idea, no thought of seeing him at
                        the Armstrongs' that night. It was a surprise to me, and to them,
                        when he telegraphed he was coming. And when I went into the tunnel there
                        under the wall that night, I had a purposea purpose"
                    "Yes?" she paused and I bent forward, earnestly waiting for
                        her words, knowing that here lay her great offending.
                    "I was afraid,I was afraid that Mr. Glenarm might not come in time;
                        that you might be dispossessed,lose the fight, and I came back with Mr.
                        Pickering because I thought some dreadful thing might happen hereto
                        you"
                    She turned and ran from me with the speed of the wind, the cloak fluttering
                        out darkly about her. At the door, under the light of the lamp, I was close
                        upon her. Her hand was on the vestibule latch.
                    "But how should I have known?" I cried. "And you
                        had taunted me with my imprisonment at Glenarm; you had dared me to follow
                        you, when you knew that my grandfather was living and watching to see
                        whether I kept faith with him. If you can tell me,if there is an answer to
                        that"
                    
                    "I shall never tell you anythingmore! You were so eager to think ill
                        of meto accuse me!"
                    "It was because I love you; it was my jealousy of that man, my
                        boyhood enemy, that made me catch at any doubt. You are so beautiful,you are
                        so much a part of the peace, the charm of all this! I had hoped for
                        springfor you and the spring together!"
                    "Oh, please!"
                    Her flight had shaken the toque to an unwonted angle; her breath came quick
                        and hard as she tugged at the latch eagerly. The light from overhead was
                        full upon us, but I could not go with hope and belief struggling unsatisfied
                        in my heart. I seized her hands and sought to look into her eyes.
                    "But you challenged me,to follow you! I want to know why you did
                        that!"
                    She drew away, struggling to free herself.
                    "Why was it, Marian?"
                    "Because I wanted"
                    "Yes"
                    "I wanted you to come, Squire Glenarm!"
                    Thrice spring has wakened the sap in the Glenarm wood since that night.
                        Yesterday I tore March from the calendar. April in Indiana! She is an
                        impudent tomboy who whistles at the window, points to the sunshine  and, when you go hopefully forth, summons the
                        clouds and pelts you with snow. The austere old woodland, wise from long
                        acquaintance, finds no joy in her The walnut and the hickory have a higher
                        respect for the stormier qualities of December. April in Indiana! She was
                        just there by the wall, where now the bluebird pauses dismayed, and waits
                        again the flash of her golden sandals. She bent there at the lakeside the
                        splash of a raindrop ago and tentatively poked the thin, brittle ice with
                        the pink tips of her little fingers. April in the heart! It brings back the
                        sweet wonder and awe of those days, three years ago, when Marian and I,
                        waiting for June to come, knew a joy that thrilled our hearts like the
                        tumult of the first robin's song. The marvel of it all steals over
                        me again as I hear the riot of melody in meadow and wood, and catch through
                        the window the flash of eager wings.
                    My history of the affair at Glenarm has overrun the bounds I had set for it,
                        and these, I submit, are not days for the desk and pen. Marian is turning
                        over the sheets of manuscript that lie at my left elbow, and demanding that
                        I drop work for a walk abroad. My grandfather is pacing the terrace outside,
                        planning, no doubt, those changes in the grounds that are his constant
                        delight.
                    Of some of the persons concerned in this winter's  tale let me say a word more. The prisoner
                        whom Larry left behind we discharged, after several days, with all the
                        honors of war, and (I may add without breach of confidence) a comfortable
                        indemnity. Larry has made a reputation by his book on Russiaa searching
                        study into the conditions of the Czar's empire, and, having
                        squeezed that lemon, he is now in Tibet. His father has secured from the
                        British government a promise of immunity for Larry, so long as that amiable
                        adventurer keeps away from Ireland. My friend's latest letters to
                        me contain, I note, no reference to The Sod.
                    Bates is in California conducting a fruit ranch, and when he visited us last
                        Christmas he bore all the marks of a gentleman whom the world uses well.
                        Stoddard's life has known many changes in these years, but they
                        must wait for another day, and, perhaps, another historian. Suffice it to
                        say that it was he who married us Marian and mein the little chapel by the
                        wall, and that when he comes now and then to visit us, we renew our
                        impression of him as a man large of body and of soul. Sister Theresa
                        continues at the head of St. Agatha's, and she and the other
                        Sisters of her brown-clad company are delightful neighbors.
                        Pickering's failure and subsequent disappearance were described
                        sufficiently in the newspapers and his name is never mentioned at Glenarm.
                    
                    As for myselfMarian is tapping the floor restlessly with her boot and I must
                        hastenI may say that I am no idler. It was I who carried on the work of
                        finishing Glenarm House, and I manage the farms which my grandfather has
                        lately acquired in this neighborhood. But better still, from my own point of
                        view, I maintain in Chicago an office as consulting engineer and I have
                        already had several important commissions.
                    Glenarm House is now what my grandfather had wished to make it, a beautiful
                        and dignified mansion. He insisted on filling up the tunnel, so that the
                        Door of Bewilderment is no more. The passage in the wall and the strong box
                        in the paneling of the chimney-breast remain, though the latter we use now
                        as a hiding-place for certain prized bottles of rare whisky which John
                        Marshall Glenarm ordains shall be taken down only on Christmas Eves, to
                        drink the health of Olivia Gladys Armstrong. That young woman, I may add, is
                        now a belle in her own city, and of the scores of youngsters all the way
                        from Pittsburg to New Orleans who lay siege to her heart, my word is, may
                        the best man win!
                    And now, at the end, it may seem idle vanity for a man still young to write
                        at so great length of his own affairs; but it must have been clear that mine
                        is the humblest figure in this narrative. I wished to set forth an honest
                        account of my grandfather's experiment in  looking into this world from another, and he has him-self
                        urged me to write down these various incidents while they are still fresh in
                        my memory.
                    Marianthe most patient of womenis walking to-ward the door, eager for the
                        sunshine, the free airs of spring, the blue vistas lakeward, and at last I
                        am ready to go.
                
            
        
    
