
     ----CITATION---- 
        Tarkington, Booth, 1869-1946. Penrod and Sam: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2384
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    "'Bing! Bing!' shouted Sam, levelling his gun at
                        the cage, while Herman and Verman hammered upon it, and Gipsy cursed boys,
                        the world, and the day he was born"
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    PENROD AND SAM
                
                BY
                    BOOTH TARKINGTON AUTHOR OF PENROD, SEVENTEEN,
                    ETC.
                ILLUSTRATED BY WORTH BREHM
                
                    NEW YORK
                    GROSSET & DUNLAP PUBLISHERS
                
            
            
            
                
                    Copyright, 1916, by
                     DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY
                
                
                    All rights reserved, including that of translation into foreign
                        languages, including the Scandinavian
                
                PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES AT THE COUNTRY 
                    PRESS, GARDEN CITY, N. Y.
                
                    Copyright, 1914, 1915, 1916, by
                     INTERNATIONAL MAGAZINES CO. (COSMOPOLITAN MAGAZINE)
            
            
            
                TO SUSANAH
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I. Penrod and Sam 3
                        
                    II. The Bonded Prisoner 20
                        
                    III. The Militarist 34
                        
                    IV. Bingism 43
                        
                    V. The In-Or-In 64
                        
                    VI. Georgie Becomes a Member 79
                        
                    VII. Whitey 101
                        
                    VIII. Salvage 109
                        
                    IX. Reward of Merit 120
                        
                    X. Conscience 137
                        
                    XI. The Tonic 149
                        
                    XII. Gipsy 164
                        
                    XIII. Concerning Trousers 174
                        
                    XIV. Camera Work in the Jungle 188
                        
                    XV. A Model Letter to a Friend 202
                        
                    XVI. Wednesday Madness 218
                        
                    
                    XVII. Penrod's Busy Day 232
                        
                    XVIII. On Account of the Weather 257
                        
                    XIX. Creative Art 271
                        
                    XX. The Departing Guest 282
                        
                    XXI. Yearnings 289
                        
                    XXII. The Horn of Fame 305
                        
                    XXIII. The Party 323
                        
                    XXIV. The Heart of Marjorie Jones 345
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                PENROD AND SAM
                
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    PENROD AND SAM
                    
                        DURING the daylight hours of several autumn Saturdays
                        there had been severe outbreaks of cavalry in the Schofield neighbourhood.
                        The sabres were of wood; the steeds were imaginary, and both were employed
                        in a game called "bonded pris'ner" by its
                        inventors, Masters Penrod Schofield and Samuel Williams. The pastime was not
                        intricate. When two enemies met, they fenced spectacularly until the person
                        of one or the other was touched by the opposing weapon; then, when the
                        ensuing claims of foul play had been disallowed and the subsequent argument
                        settled, the combatant touched was considered to be a prisoner until such
                        time as he might be touched by the hilt of a sword belonging to one of his
                        own party, which affected his release and restored to him the full enjoyment
                        of hostile activity. Pending such rescue, however, he was obliged to
                        accompany the forces of his captor whithersoever their strategical
                        necessities led them, which included many 
                        strange places. For the game was exciting, and, at its highest pitch, would
                        sweep out of an alley into a stable, out of that stable and into a yard, out
                        of that yard and into a house, and through that house with the sound (and
                        effect upon furniture) of trampling herds. In fact, this very similarity
                        must have been in the mind of the distressed coloured woman in Mrs.
                        Williams' kitchen, when she declared that she might
                        "jes' as well try to cook right spang in the middle
                        o' the stock-yards."
                    All up and down the neighbourhood the campaigns were waged, accompanied by
                        the martial clashing of wood upon wood and by many clamorous arguments.
                    "You're a pris'ner, Roddy Bitts!
                    "I am not!"
                    "You are, too! I touched you."
                    "Where, I'd like to know!
                    "On the sleeve."
                    "You did not! I never felt it. I guess I'd
                        'a' felt it, wouldn't I?"
                    "What if you didn't? I touched you, and you're
                        bonded. I leave it to Sam Williams."
                    "Yah! Course you would! He's on your side! I leave it to Herman."
                    "No, you won't! If you can't show any sense
                         about it, we'll do it over, and I
                        guess you'll see whether you feel it or not!
                        There! Now, I guess you"
                    "Aw, squash!"
                    Strangely enough, the undoubted champion proved to be the youngest and
                        darkest of all the combatants, one Verman, coloured, brother to Herman, and
                        substantially under the size to which his nine years entitled him. Verman
                        was unfortunately tongue-tied, but he was valiant beyond all others, and, in
                        spite of every handicap, he became at once the chief support of his own
                        party and the despair of the opposition.
                    On the third Saturday this opposition had been worn down by the successive
                        captures of Maurice Levy and Georgie Bassett until it consisted of only Sam
                        Williams and Penrod. Hence, it behooved these two to be wary, lest they be
                        wiped out altogether; and Sam was dismayed indeed, upon cautiously scouting
                        round a corner of his own stable, to find himself face to face with the
                        valorous and skilful Verman, who was acting as an outpost, or picket, of the
                        enemy.
                    Verman immediately fell upon Sam, horse and foot, and Sam would have fled but
                        dared not, for fear he might be touched from the rear. Therefore, he
                        defended himself as best he could, and there followed a  lusty whacking, in the course of which Verman's hat, a
                        relic and too large, fell from his head, touching Sam's weapon in
                        falling.
                    "There!" panted Sam, desisting immediately. "That
                        counts! You're bonded, Verman."
                    "Aim meewer!" Verman protested.
                    Interpreting this as, "Ain't neither," Sam
                        invented a law to suit the occasion. "Yes, you are; that's
                        the rule, Verman. I touched your hat with my sword, and your hat's
                        just the same as you."
                    "Imm mop!" Verman insisted.
                    "Yes, it is," said Sam, already warmly convinced (by his
                        own statement) that he was in the right. "Listen here! If I hit you
                        on the shoe, it would be the same as hitting you,
                        wouldn't it? I guess it'd count if I hit you on the shoe,
                        wouldn't it? Well, a hat's just the same as shoes. Honest,
                        that's the rule, Verman, and you're a
                        pris'ner."
                    Now, in the arguing part of the game, Verman's impediment coperated
                        with a native amiability to render him far less effective than in the actual
                        combat. He chuckled, and ceded the point.
                    "Aw wi," he said, and cheerfully followed his captor to a
                        hidden place among some bushes in the front yard, where Penrod lurked.
                    
                    "Looky what I got!" Sam said importantly,
                        pushing his captive into this retreat. "Now, I
                        guess you won't say I'm not so much use any more! Squat
                        down, Verman, so's they can't see you if they're
                        huntin' for us. That's one o' the ruleshonest.
                        You got to squat when we tell you to."
                    Verman was agreeable. He squatted, and then began to laugh uproariously.
                    "Stop that noise!" Penrod commanded. "You want to
                        bekray us? What you laughin' at?"
                    "Ep mack im mimmup," Verman giggled.
                    "What's he mean?" asked Sam.
                    Penrod was more familiar with Verman's utterance, and he
                        interpreted.
                    "He says they'll get him back in a minute."
                    "No, they won't. I'd just like to see"
                    "Yes, they will, too," said Penrod.
                        "They'll get him back for the main and simple reason we
                        can't stay here all day, can we? And they'd find us
                        anyhow, if we tried to. There's so many of 'em against
                        just us two, they can run in and touch him soon as they get up to usand then
                            he'll be after us again and"
                    "Listen here!" Sam interrupted. "Why
                        can't we put some real bonds on him? We could put
                        bonds on  his wrists and around his legswe could
                        put 'em all over him, easy as nothin'. Then we could gag
                        him"
                    "No, we can't," said Penrod. "We
                        can't, for the main and simple reason we haven't got any
                        rope or anything to make the bonds with, have we? I wish we had some
                        o' that stuff they give sick people. Then, I bet
                        they wouldn't get him back so soon!"
                    "Sick people?" Sam repeated, not comprehending.
                    "It makes 'em go to sleep, no matter what you do to
                        'em," Penrod explained. "That's the main
                        and simple reason they can't wake up, and you can cut off their ole
                        legsor their arms, or anything you want to."
                    "Hoy!" exclaimed Verman, in a serious tone. His laughter
                        ceased instantly, and he began to utter a protest sufficiently intelligible.
                    "You needn't worry," Penrod said gloomily.
                        "We haven't got any o' that stuff; so we
                        can't do it."
                    "Well, we got to do sumpthing," said Sam.
                    His comrade agreed, and there was a thoughtful silence, but presently
                        Penrod's countenance brightened.
                    "I know!" he exclaimed. "I know
                        what we'll do with him. Why, I thought of it just as easy! I can  most always think of
                        things like that, for the main and simple reasonwell, I thought of it just
                        as soon"
                    "Well, what is it?" Sam demanded crossly. Penrod's
                        reiteration of his new-found phrase, "for the main and simple
                        reason," had been growing more and more irksome to his friend all
                        day, though Sam was not definitely aware that the phrase was the cause of
                        his annoyance. "What are we goin' to do
                        with him, you know so much?"
                    Penrod rose and peered over the tops of the bushes, shading his eyes with his
                        hand, a gesture which was unnecessary but had a good appearance. He looked
                        all round about him in this manner, finally vouchsafing a report to the
                        impatient Sam.
                    "No enemies in sightjust for the main and simple reason I expect
                        they're all in the alley and in Georgie Bassett's
                        backyard."
                    "I bet they're not!" Sam said scornfully, his
                        irritation much increased. "How do you know so
                        much about it?"
                    "Just for the main and simple reason," Penrod replied, with
                        dignified finality.
                    And at that, Sam felt a powerful impulse to do violence upon the person of
                        his comrade-in-arms.  The emotion which
                        prompted this impulse was so primitive and straightforward that it almost
                        resulted in action, but Sam had a vague sense that he must control it as
                        long as he could.
                    "Bugs!" he said.
                    Penrod was sensitive, and this cold word hurt him. However, he was under the
                        domination of his strategic idea, and he subordinated private grievance to
                        the common weal. "Get up!" he commanded. "You get
                        up, too, Verman. You got toit's the rule. Now hereI'll show you what we're goin' to do. Stoop
                        over, and both o' you do just exackly like I do.
                        You watch me, because this biz'nuss has got to be
                        done right!"
                    
                    Sam muttered something; he was becoming more insurgent every moment, but he
                        obeyed. Likewise, Verman rose to his feet, ducked his head between his
                        shoulders, and trotted out to the sidewalk at Sam's heels, both
                        following Penrod and assuming a stooping position in imitation of him.
                        Verman was delighted with this phase of the game, and, also, he was
                        profoundly amused by Penrod's pomposity. Something dim and deep
                        within him perceived it to be cause for such merriment that he had ado to
                        master himself, and was forced to bottle and cork his laughter with  both hands. They proved insufficient;
                        sputterings burst forth between his fingers.
                    "You stop that!" said Penrod, looking back darkly upon the
                        prisoner.
                    Verman endeavoured to oblige, though giggles continued to leak from him at
                        intervals, and the three boys stole along the fence in single file,
                        proceeding in this fashion until they reached Penrod's own front
                        gate. Here the leader ascertained, by a reconnaissance as far as the corner,
                        that the hostile forces were still looking for them in another direction. He
                        returned in a stealthy but important manner to his disgruntled follower and
                        the hilarious captive.
                    "Well," said Sam impatiently, "I guess
                        I'm not goin' to stand around here all day, I guess! You
                        got anything you want to do, why'n't you go on and do it?"
                    Penrod's brow was already contorted to present the appearance of
                        detached and lofty concentrationa histrionic failure, since it did not
                        deceive the audience. He raised a hushing hand.
                    
                        "Sh!" he murmured. "I got to
                        think."
                    "Bugs!" said the impolite Mr. Williams again.
                    Verman bent double, squealing and sputtering; indeed, he was ultimately
                        forced to sit upon the ground, so exhausting was the mirth to which he now
                        gave  way. Penrod's composure was
                        somewhat affected, and he showed annoyance.
                    "Oh, I guess you won't laugh quite so much about a minute
                        from now, ole Mister Verman!" he said severely. "You get
                        up from there and do like I tell you."
                    "Well, why'n't you tell him why
                        he won't laugh so much, then?" Sam demanded, as Verman
                        rose. "Why'n't you do sumpthing and quit
                        talkin' so much about it?"
                    Penrod haughtily led the way into the yard.
                    "You follow me," he said, "and I guess
                        you'll learn a little sense!"
                    Then, abandoning his hauteur for an air of mystery equally
                        irritating to Sam, he stole up the steps of the porch, and after a
                        moment's manipulation of the knob of the big front door, contrived
                        to operate the fastenings, and pushed the door open.
                    "Come on," he whispered, beckoning. And the three boys
                        mounted the stairs to the floor above in silencesave for a belated giggle on
                        the part of Verman, which was restrained upon a terrible gesture from
                        Penrod. Verman buried his mouth as deeply as possible in a ragged sleeve,
                        and confined his demonstrations to a heaving of the stomach and diaphragm.
                             Penrod led the way into the dainty room of
                        his nineteen-year-old sister, Margaret, and closed the door.
                    "There," he said, in a low and husky voice, "I
                        expect you'll see what I'm goin' to do
                        now!"
                    "Well, what?" asked the skeptical Sam. "If we stay
                        here very long your mother'll come and send us downstairs.
                        What's the good of"
                    "Wait, can't you?" Penrod
                        wailed, in a whisper.
                    "My goodness!" And going to an inner door, he threw it
                        open, disclosing a clothes-closet hung with pretty garments of many kinds,
                        while upon its floor were two rows of shoes and slippers of great variety
                        and charm.
                    A significant thing is to be remarked concerning the door of this somewhat
                        intimate treasury: there was no knob or latch upon the inner side, so that,
                        when the door was closed, it could be opened only from the outside.
                    "There!" said Penrod. "You get in there, Verman,
                        and I'll bet they won't get to touch you back out
                        o' bein' our pris'ner very soon, now! Oh, I guess not!"
                    "Pshaw!" said Sam. "Is that all you were
                        goin' to do? Why, your mother'll come and make him get out
                        the first"
                    
                    "No, she won't. She and Margaret have gone to my
                        aunt's in the country, and aren't goin' to be
                        back till dark. And even if he made a lot o' noise, it's
                        kind of hard to hear anything from in there, anyway, when the
                        door's shut. Besides, he's got to keep
                        quietthat's the rule, Verman. You're a pris'ner,
                        and it's the rule you can't holler or nothin'.
                        You unnerstand that, Verman?"
                    "Aw wi," said Verman.
                    "Then go on in there. Hurry!"
                    The obedient Verman marched into the closet and sat down among the shoes and
                        slippers, where he presented an interesting effect of contrast. He was still
                        subject to hilaritythough endeavouring to suppress it by means of a
                        patent-leather slipperwhen Penrod closed the door.
                    "There!" said Penrod, leading the way from the room.
                        "I guess now you see!"
                    Sam said nothing, and they came out to the open air, and reached their
                        retreat in the Williams' yard again, without his having
                        acknowledged Penrod's service to their mutual cause.
                    "I thought of that just as easy!" Penrod remarked, probably
                        prompted to this odious bit of complacency by Sam's withholding the
                        praise which might naturally  have been
                        expected. And he was moved to add, "I guess it'd of been a
                        pretty long while if we'd had to wait for you to think of sumpthing
                        as good as that, Sam."
                    "Why would it?" Sam asked. "Why would it of been
                        such a long while?"
                    "Oh," responded Penrod, airily, "just for the main
                        and simple reason!"
                    Sam could bear it no longer.
                    "Oh, hush up!" he shouted.
                    Penrod was stung.
                    "Do you mean me?" he demanded.
                    "Yes, I do!" replied the goaded Sam.
                    "Did you tell me to hush up?"
                    "Yes, I did!"
                    "I guess you don't know who you're
                        talkin' to," Penrod said ominously. "I guess I
                        just better show you who you're talkin' to like that. I
                        guess you need a little sumpthing, for the main and simple"
                    Sam uttered an uncontrollable howl and sprang upon Penrod, catching him round
                        the waist. Simultaneously with this impact, the wooden swords spun through
                        the air, and were presently trodden underfoot as the two boys wrestled to
                        and fro.
                    Penrod was not altogether surprised by the onset of  his friend. He had been aware of Sam's increasing
                        irritation (though neither boy could have clearly stated its cause), and
                        that very irritation produced a corresponding emotion in the bosom of the
                        irritator. Mentally, Penrod was quite ready for the conflictnay, he welcomed
                        itthough, for the first few moments, Sam had the physical advantage.
                    However, it is proper that a neat distinction be drawn here. This was a
                        conflict, but neither technically nor in the intention of the contestants
                        was it a fight. Penrod and Sam were both in a state of high exasperation,
                        and there was great bitterness; but no blows fell and no tears. They
                        strained, they wrenched, they twisted, and they panted, and muttered:
                        "Oh, no, you don't!" "Oh, I guess I
                        do!" "Oh, you will, will you?"
                        "You'll see what you get in about a minute!"
                        "I guess you'll learn some sense this time!"
                    Streaks and blotches began to appear upon the two faces, where colour had
                        been heightened by the ardent application of a cloth sleeve or shoulder,
                        while ankles and insteps were scraped and toes were trampled. Turf and
                        shrubberies suffered, also, as the struggle went on, until finally the
                        wrestlers pitched headlong into a young lilac bush, and came to  earth together, among its crushed and
                        sprawling branches.
                    
                        "Ooch!" and "Wuf!" were the two exclamations which marked
                        this episode, and then, with no further comment, the struggle was
                        energetically continued upon a horizontal plane. Now Penrod was on top, now
                        Sam; they rolled, they squirmed, they suffered. And this contest endured. It
                        went on and on, and it was impossible to imagine its coming to a definite
                        termination. It went on so long that, to both the participants, it seemed to
                        be a permanent thing, a condition which had always existed and which must
                        always exist perpetually.
                    And thus they were discovered by a foray of the hostile party, headed by
                        Roddy Bitts and Herman (older brother to Verman) and followed by the bonded
                        prisoners, Maurice Levy and Georgie Bassett. These and others caught sight
                        of the writhing figures, and charged down upon them with loud cries of
                        triumph.
                    "Pris'ner! Pris'ner! Bonded
                        pris'ner!" shrieked Roddy Bitts, and touched Penrod and
                        Sam, each in turn, with his sabre. Then, seeing that they paid no attention
                        and that they were at his mercy, he recalled the fact that several times,
                        during earlier stages of the  game, both of
                        them had been unnecessarily vigorous in "touching" his own
                        rather plump person. Therefore, the opportunity being excellent, he raised
                        his weapon again, and, repeating the words "bonded
                        pris'ner" as ample explanation of his deed, brought into
                        play the full strength of his good right arm. He used the flat of the sabre.
                    
                        Whack! Whack! Roddy was perfectly impartial. It was a
                        cold-blooded performance and even more effective than he anticipated. For
                        one thing, it ended the civil war instantly. Sam and Penrod leaped to their
                        feet, shrieking and bloodthirsty, while Maurice Levy capered with joy,
                        Herman was so overcome that he rolled upon the ground, and Georgie Bassett
                        remarked virtuously:
                    "It serves them right for fighting."
                    But Roddy Bitts foresaw that something not within the rules of the game was
                        about to happen.
                    "Here! You keep away from me!" he quavered, retreating.
                        "I was just takin' you pris'ners. I guess I had a
                        right to touch you, didn't I?"
                    Alas! Neither Sam nor Penrod was able to see the matter in that light. They
                        had retrieved their own weapons, and they advanced upon Roddy, with a
                        purposefulness that seemed horrible to him.
                    
                    "Here! You keep away from me!" he said, in great alarm.
                        "I'm goin' home."
                    He did go homebut only subsequently. What took place before his departure had
                        the singular solidity and completeness of systematic violence; also, it bore
                        the moral beauty of all actions which lead to peace and friendship, for,
                        when it was over, and the final vocalizations of Roderick Magsworth Bitts,
                        Junior, were growing faint with increasing distance, Sam and Penrod had
                        forgotten their differences and felt well disposed toward each other once
                        more. All their animosity was exhausted, and they were in a glow of good
                        feeling, though probably they were not conscious of any direct gratitude to
                        Roddy, whose thoughtful opportunism was really the cause of this happy
                        result.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    THE BONDED PRISONER
                    
                        AFTER such rigorous events, every one comprehended that
                        the game of bonded prisoner was over, and there was no suggestion that it
                        should or might be resumed. The fashion of its conclusion had been so
                        consummately enjoyed by all parties (with the natural exception of Roddy
                        Bitts) that a renewal would have been tame; hence, the various minds of the
                        company turned to other matters and became restless. Georgie Bassett
                        withdrew first, remembering that if he expected to be as wonderful as usual,
                        to-morrow, in Sunday-school, it was time to prepare himself, though this was
                        not included in the statement he made alleging the cause of his departure.
                        Being detained bodily and pressed for explanation, he desperately said that
                        he had to go home to tease the cookwhich had the rakehelly air he thought
                        would insure his release, but was not considered plausible. However, he was
                        finally allowed to go, and, as first hints of evening  were already cooling and darkening the air, the party broke up,
                        its members setting forth, whistling, toward their several homes, though
                        Penrod lingered with Sam. Herman was the last to go from them.
                    "Well, I got git 'at stove-wood f'
                        suppuh," he said, rising and stretching himself. "I got
                        git 'at lil' soap-box wagon, an' go on ovuh
                        wheres 'at new house buil'in' on Secon'
                        Street; pick up few shingles an' blocks layin'
                        roun'."
                    He went through the yard toward the alley, and, at the alley gate,
                        remembering something, he paused and called to them. The lot was a deep one,
                        and they were too far away to catch his meaning. Sam shouted,
                        "Can't hear you," and Herman
                        replied, but still unintelligibly; then, upon Sam's repetition of
                        "Can't hear you," Herman waved
                        his arm in farewell, implying that the matter was of little significance,
                        and vanished. But if they had understood him, Penrod and Sam might have
                        considered his inquiry of instant importance, for Herman's last
                        shout was to ask if either of them had noticed "where Verman
                        went."
                    Verman and Verman's whereabouts were, at this hour, of no more
                        concern to Sam and Penrod than  was the other
                        side of the moon. That unfortunate bonded prisoner had been long since
                        utterly effaced from their fields of consciousness, and the dark secret of
                        their Bastille troubled them notfor the main and simple reason that they had
                        forgotten it.
                    They drifted indoors, and found Sam's mother's white cat
                        drowsing on a desk in the library, the which coincidence obviously inspired
                        the experiment of ascertaining how successfully ink could be used in making
                        a clean white cat look like a coach-dog. There was neither malice nor
                        mischief in their idea; simply, a problem presented itself to the biological
                        and artistic questionings beginning to stir within them. They did not mean
                        to do the cat the slightest injury or to cause her any pain. They were above
                        teasing cats, and they merely detained this one and made her feel a little
                        wetat considerable cost to themselves from both the ink and the cat.
                        However, at the conclusion of their efforts, it was thought safer to drop
                        the cat out of the window before anybody came, and, after some hasty work
                        with blotters, the desk was moved to cover certain sections of the rug, and
                        the two boys repaired to the bathroom for hot water and soap. They knew they
                        had done nothing wrong, but they felt easier 
                        when the only traces remaining upon them were the less prominent ones upon
                        their garments.
                    These precautions taken, it was time for them to make their appearance at
                        Penrod's house for dinner, for it had been arranged, upon petition,
                        earlier in the day, that Sam should be his friend's guest for the
                        evening meal. Clean to the elbows and with light hearts, they set forth.
                        They marched, whistlingthough not producing a distinctly musical effect,
                        since neither had any particular air in mindand they found nothing wrong
                        with the world; they had not a care. Arrived at their adjacent destination,
                        they found Miss Margaret Schofield just entering the front door.
                    "Hurry, boys!" she said. "Mamma came home long
                        before I did, and I'm sure dinner is waiting. Run on out to the
                        dining-room and tell them I'll be right down."
                    And, as they obeyed, she mounted the stairs, humming a little tune and
                        unfastening the clasp of the long, light-blue military cape she wore. She
                        went to her own quiet room, lit the gas, removed her hat, and placed it and
                        the cape upon the bed; after which she gave her hair a push, subsequent to
                        her scrutiny of a mirror; then, turning out the light,  she went as far as the door. Being an orderly girl, she
                        returned to the bed and took the cape and the hat to her clothes-closet. She
                        opened the door of this sanctuary, and, in the dark, hung her cape upon a
                        hook and placed her hat upon the shelf. Then she closed the door again,
                        having noted nothing unusual, though she had an impression that the place
                        needed airing. She descended to the dinner table.
                    The other members of the family were already occupied with the meal, and the
                        visitor was replying politely, in his non-masticatory intervals, to
                        inquiries concerning the health of his relatives. So sweet and assured was
                        the condition of Sam and Penrod, that Margaret's arrival from her
                        room meant nothing to them. Their memories were not stirred, and they
                        continued eating, their expressions brightly placid.
                    But from out of doors there came the sound of a calling and questing voice,
                        at first in the distance, then growing loudercoming nearer.
                    "Oh, Ver-er-man! O-o-o-oh, Ver-er-ma-a-an!"
                    It was the voice of Herman.
                    
                        "Oo-o-o-o-oh, Ver-er-er-ma-a-a-an!"
                    
                    And then two boys sat stricken at that cheerful table and ceased to eat.
                        Recollection awoke with a bang!
                    
                    "Oh, my!" Sam gasped.
                    "What's the matter?" said Mr. Schofield.
                        "Swallow something the wrong way, Sam?"
                    "Ye-es, sir."
                    
                        "Oo-o-o-oh, Ver-er-er-ma-a-an!"
                    
                    And now the voice was near the windows of the dining-room.
                    Penrod, very pale, pushed back his chair and jumped up.
                    "What's the matter with you?"
                        his father demanded. "Sit down!"
                    "It's Hermanthat coloured boy lives in the alley,"
                        said Penrod hoarsely. "IexpectI think"
                    "Well, what's the matter?"
                    "I think his little brother's maybe got lost, and Sam and I
                        better go help look"
                    "You'll do nothing of the kind," said Mr.
                        Schofield sharply, "Sit down and eat your dinner."
                    In a palsy, the miserable boy resumed his seat. He and Sam exchanged a single
                        dumb glance; then the eyes of both swung fearfully to Margaret. Her
                        appearance was one of sprightly content, and, from a certain point of view,
                        nothing could have been more alarming. If she had opened her closet door
                        without  discovering Verman, that must have
                        been because Verman was dead and Margaret had failed to notice the body.
                        (Such were the thoughts of Penrod and Sam.) But she might not have opened
                        the closet door. And whether she had or not, Verman must still be there,
                        alive or dead, for if he had escaped he would have gone home, and their ears
                        would not be ringing with the sinister and melancholy cry that now came from
                        the distance, "Oo-o-oh, Ver-er-ma-an!"
                    
                    Verman, in his seclusion, did not hear that appeal from his brother; there
                        were too many walls between them. But he was becoming impatient for release,
                        though, all in all, he had not found the confinement intolerable or even
                        very irksome. His character was philosophic, his imagination calm; no
                        bugaboos came to trouble him. When the boys closed the door upon him, he
                        made himself comfortable upon the floor and, for a time, thoughtfully chewed
                        a patent-leather slipper that had come under his hand. He found the patent
                        leather not unpleasant to his palate, though he swallowed only a portion of
                        what he detached, not being hungry at that time. The soul-fabric of Verman
                        was of a fortunate weave; he was not a seeker and questioner. When it
                        happened  to him that he was at rest in a shady
                        corner, he did not even think about a place in the sun. Verman took life as
                        it came.
                    Naturally, he fell asleep. And toward the conclusion of his slumbers, he had
                        this singular adventure: a lady set her foot down within less than half an
                        inch of his noseand neither of them knew it. Verman slept on, without being
                        wakened by either the closing or the opening of the door. What did rouse him
                        was something ample and soft falling upon himMargaret's cape, which
                        slid from the hook after she had gone.
                    Enveloped in its folds, Verman sat up, corkscrewing his knuckles into the
                        corners of his eyes. Slowly he became aware of two important vacuumsone in
                        time and one in his stomach. Hours had vanished strangely into nowhere; the
                        game of bonded prisoner was something cloudy and remote of the long, long
                        ago, and, although Verman knew where he was, he had partially forgotten how
                        he came there. He perceived, however, that something had gone wrong, for he
                        was certain that he ought not to be where he found himself.
                    
                        White-Folks' House! The fact that Verman could
                        not have pronounced these words rendered them no  less clear in his mind; they began to stir his apprehension, and nothing
                        becomes more rapidly tumultuous than apprehension once it is stirred. That
                        he might possibly obtain release by making a noise was too daring a thought
                        and not even conceived, much less entertained, by the little and humble
                        Verman. For, with the bewildering gap of his slumber between him and
                        previous events, he did not place the responsibility for his being in
                        White-Folks' House upon the white folks who had put him there. His
                        state of mind was that of the stable-puppy who knows he must not be found in the parlour. Not thrice in his life had Verman
                        been within the doors of White-Folks' House, and, above all things,
                        he felt that it was in some undefined way vital to him to get out of
                        White-Folks' House unobserved and unknown. It was in his very blood
                        to be sure of that.
                    Further than this point, the processes of Verman's mind become
                        mysterious to the observer. It appears, however, that he had a definite
                        (though somewhat primitive) conception of the usefulness of disguise; and he
                        must have begun his preparations before he heard footsteps in the room
                        outside his closed door.
                    
                    These footsteps were Margaret's. Just as Mr. Schofield's
                        coffee was brought, and just after Penrod had been baffled in another
                        attempt to leave the table, Margaret rose and patted her father
                        impertinently upon the head.
                    "You can't bully me that way!"
                        she said. "I got home too late to dress, and I'm going to
                        a dance. 'Scuse!"
                    And she began her dancing on the spot, pirouetting herself swiftly out of the
                        room, and was immediately heard running up the stairs.
                    "Penrod!" Mr. Schofield shouted. "Sit down! How
                        many times am I going to tell you? What is the matter with
                        you to-night?"
                    "I got to go," gasped Penrod. "I
                        got to tell Margaret sumpthing."
                    "What have you 'got' to tell her?"
                    "It'sit's sumpthing I forgot to tell
                        her."
                    "Well, it will keep till she comes downstairs," said Mr.
                        Schofield grimly. "You sit down till this meal is
                        finished."
                    Penrod was becoming frantic.
                    "I got to tell herit's sumpthing Sam's mother told
                        me to tell her," he babbled. "Didn't she, Sam?
                        You heard her tell me to tell her; didn't you, Sam?"  Sam offered prompt corroboration.
                    "Yes, sir; she did. She said for us both to tell her. I better go,
                        too, I guess, because she said"
                    He was interrupted. Startlingly upon their ears rang shriek on shriek. Mrs.
                        Schofield, recognizing Margaret's voice, likewise shrieked, and Mr.
                        Schofield uttered various sounds, but Penrod and Sam were incapable of doing
                        anything vocally. All rushed from the table.
                    Margaret continued to shriek, and it is not to be denied that there was some
                        cause for her agitation. When she opened the closet door, her light-blue
                        military cape, instead of hanging on the hook where she had left it, came
                        out into the room in a manner which she afterward described as "a
                        kind of horrible creep, but faster than a creep." Nothing was to be
                        seen except the creeping cape, she said, but, of course, she could tell
                        there was some awful thing inside of it. It was too large to be a cat, and
                        too small to be a boy; it was too large to be Duke, Penrod's little
                        old dog, and, besides, Duke wouldn't act like that. It crept
                        rapidly out into the upper hall, and then, as she recovered the use of her
                        voice and began to scream, the animated cape abandoned its creeping for a
                        quicker gait"a weird, heaving flop," she defined it.  The Thing then decided upon a third style of
                        locomotion, evidently, for when Sam and Penrod reached the front hall, a few
                        steps in advance of Mr. and Mrs. Schofield, it was rolling grandly down the
                        stairs.
                    Mr. Schofield had only a hurried glimpse of it as it reached the bottom,
                        close by the front door.
                    "Grab that thing!" he shouted, dashing forward.
                        "Stop it! Hit it!"
                    It was at this moment that Sam Williams displayed the presence of mind which
                        was his most eminent characteristic. Sam's wonderful instinct for
                        the right action almost never failed him in a crisis, and it did not fail
                        him now. Leaping to the door, at the very instant when the rolling cape
                        touched it, Sam flung the door openand the cape rolled on. With incredible
                        rapidity and intelligence, it rolled, indeed, out into the night.
                    Penrod jumped after it, and the next second reappeared in the doorway holding
                        the cape. He shook out its folds, breathing hard but acquiring confidence.
                        In fact, he was able to look up in his father's face and say, with
                        bright ingenuousness
                    "It was just laying there. Do you know what I think? Well, it
                        couldn't have acted that way itself. 
                        I think there must have been sumpthing kind of inside of
                        it!"
                    Mr. Schofield shook his head slowly, in marvelling admiration.
                    "Brilliantoh, brilliant!" he murmured, while Mrs. Schofield
                        ran to support the enfeebled form of Margaret at the top of the stairs.
                    . . . In the library, after Margaret's departure to her dance, Mr.
                        and Mrs. Schofield were still discussing the visitation, Penrod having
                        accompanied his homeward-bound guest as far as the front gate.
                    "No; you're wrong," said Mrs. Schofield, upholding
                        a theory, earlier developed by Margaret, that the animated behaviour of the
                        cape could be satisfactorily explained on no other ground than the
                        supernatural. "You see, the boys saying they couldn't
                        remember what Mrs. Williams wanted them to tell Margaret, and that probably
                        she hadn't told them anything to tell her, because most likely
                        they'd misunderstood something she saidwell, of course, all that
                        does sound mixed-up and peculiar, but they sound that way about half the
                        time, anyhow. No; it couldn't possibly have had a thing to do with
                        it. They were right there at the table with us all the time, and they came
                        straight to the table  the minute they entered
                        the house. Before that, they'd been over at Sam's all
                        afternoon. So, it couldn't have been the
                        boys." Mrs. Schofield paused to ruminate with a little air of
                        pride, then added: "Margaret has often thoughtoh, long before
                        this!that she was a medium. I meanif she would let herself. So it
                        wasn't anything the boys did."
                    Mr. Schofield grunted.
                    "I'll admit this much," he said.
                        "I'll admit it wasn't anything we'll
                        ever get out of 'em."
                    And the remarks of Sam and Penrod, taking leave of each other, one on each
                        side of the gate, appeared to corroborate Mr. Schofield's opinion.
                    "Well, g'-night, Penrod," Sam said. "It
                        was a pretty good Saturday, wasn't it?"
                    "Fine!" said Penrod casually. "G'-night,
                        Sam."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    THE MILITARIST
                    
                        PENROD SCHOFIELD, having been "kept in"
                        for the unjust period of twenty minutes after school, emerged to a deserted
                        street. That is, the street was deserted so far as Penrod was concerned.
                        Here and there people were to be seen upon the sidewalks, but they were
                        adults, and they and the shade trees had about the same quality of
                        significance in Penrod's consciousness. Usually he saw grown people
                        in the mass, which is to say, they were virtually invisible to him, though
                        exceptions must be taken in favour of policemen, firemen, street-car
                        conductors, motormen, and all other men in any sort of uniform or regalia.
                        But this afternoon none of these met the roving eye, and Penrod set out upon
                        his homeward way wholly dependent upon his own resources.
                    To one of Penrod's inner texture, a mere unadorned walk from one
                        point to another was intolerable, and he had not gone a block without
                        achieving  some slight remedy for the tameness
                        of life. An electric-light pole at the corner, invested with powers of
                        observation, might have been surprised to find itself suddenly enacting a
                        rle of dubious honour in improvised melodrama. Penrod, approaching, gave the
                        pole a look of sharp suspicion, then one of conviction; slapped it lightly
                        and contemptuously with his open hand; passed on a few paces, but turned
                        abruptly, and, pointing his right forefinger, uttered the symbolic word,
                        "Bing!"
                    The plot was somewhat indefinite; yet nothing is more certain than that the
                        electric-light pole had first attempted something against him, then growing
                        bitter when slapped, and stealing after him to take him treacherously in the
                        back, had got itself shot through and through by one too old in such warfare
                        to be caught off his guard.
                    Leaving the body to lie where it was, he placed the smoking pistol in a
                        holster at his saddlebowhe had decided that he was mountedand proceeded up
                        the street. At intervals he indulged himself in other encounters, reining in
                        at first suspicion of ambush with a muttered, "Whoa,
                        Charlie!" or "Whoa, Mike!" or even
                        "Whoa, Washington!" for preoccupation with the enemy
                        outweighed attention  to the details of
                        theatrical consistency, though the steed's varying names were at
                        least harmoniously masculine, since a boy, in these creative moments, never
                        rides a mare. And having brought Charlie or Mike or Washington to a
                        standstill, Penrod would draw the sure weapon from its holster
                        and"Bing! Bing! Bing!"let them have it.
                    It is not to be understood that this was a noisy performance, or even an
                        obvious one. It attracted no attention from any pedestrian, and it was to be
                        perceived only that a boy was proceeding up the street at a somewhat
                        irregular gait. Three or four years earlier, when Penrod was seven or eight,
                        he would have shouted "Bing!" at the top of his voice; he
                        would have galloped openly; all the world might have seen that he bestrode a
                        charger. But a change had come upon him with advancing years. Although the
                        grown people in sight were indeed to him as walking trees, his dramas were
                        accomplished principally by suggestion and symbol. His
                        "Whoas" and "Bings" were delivered in a
                        husky whisper, and his equestrianism was established by action mostly of the
                        mind, the accompanying artistry of the feet being unintelligible to the
                        passerby.
                    And yet, though he concealed from observation 
                        the stirring little scenes he thus enacted, a love of realism was increasing
                        within him. Early childhood is not fastidious about the accessories of its
                        dramaa cane is vividly a gun which may instantly, as vividly, become a
                        horse; but at Penrod's time of life the lath sword is no longer
                        satisfactory. Indeed, he now had a vague sense that weapons of wood were
                        unworthy to the point of being contemptible and ridiculous, and he employed
                        them only when he was alone and unseen. For months a yearning had grown more
                        and more poignant in his vitals, and this yearning was symbolized by one of
                        his most profound secrets. In the inner pocket of his jacket he carried a
                        bit of wood whittled into the distant likeness of a pistol, but not even Sam
                        Williams had seen it. The wooden pistol never knew the light of day, save
                        when Penrod was in solitude; and yet it never left his side except at night,
                        when it was placed under his pillow. Still, it did not satisfy; it was but
                        the token of his yearning and his dream. With all his might and main Penrod
                        longed for one thing beyond all others. He wanted a Real Pistol!
                    That was natural. Pictures of real pistols being used to magnificently
                        romantic effect were upon almost all the billboards in town, the year round;
                             and as for the "movie"
                        shows, they could not have lived an hour unpistoled. In the drug store,
                        where Penrod bought his candy and soda when he was in funds, he would linger
                        to turn the pages of periodicals whose illustrations were fascinatingly
                        pistolic. Some of the magazines upon the very library table at home were
                        sprinkled with pictures of people (usually in evening clothes) pointing
                        pistols at other people. Nay, the Library Board of the town had emitted a
                        "Selected List of Fifteen Books for Boys," and Penrod had
                        read fourteen of them with pleasure, but as the fifteenth contained no
                        weapons in the earlier chapters and held forth little prospect of any
                        shooting at all, he abandoned it halfway, and read the most sanguinary of
                        the other fourteen over again. So, the daily food of his imagination being
                        gun, what wonder that he thirsted for the Real!
                    He passed from the sidewalk into his own yard, with a subdued
                        "Bing!" inflicted upon the stolid person of a gatepost,
                        and, entering the house through the kitchen, ceased to bing for a time.
                        However, driven back from the fore part of the house by a dismal sound of
                        callers, he returned to the kitchen and sat down.
                    "Della," he said to the cook, "do you know what
                             I'd do if you was a crook and I
                        had my ottomatic with me?"
                    Della was industrious and preoccupied. "If I was a cook!"
                        she repeated ignorantly, and with no cordiality. "Well, I am a cook. I'm a-cookin' right now.
                        Either g'wan in the house where y'b'long, or git
                        out in th' yard!"
                    Penrod chose the latter, and betook himself slowly to the back fence, where
                        he was greeted in a boisterous manner by his wistful little old dog, Duke,
                        returning from some affair of his own in the alley.
                    "Get down!" said Penrod coldly, and bestowed a spiritless
                        "Bing!" upon him.
                    At this moment a shout was heard from the alley, "Yay,
                        Penrod!" and the sandy head of comrade Sam Williams appeared above
                        the fence.
                    "Come on over," said Penrod.
                    As Sam obediently climbed the fence, the little old dog, Duke, moved slowly
                        away, but presently, glancing back over his shoulder and seeing the two boys
                        standing together, he broke into a trot and disappeared round a corner of
                        the house. He was a dog of long and enlightening experience; and he made it
                        clear that the conjunction of Penrod and Sam portended events which, from
                        his point of view,  might be unfortunate. Duke
                        had a forgiving disposition, but he also possessed a melancholy wisdom. In
                        the company of either Penrod or Sam, alone, affection often caused him to
                        linger, albeit with a little pessimism, but when he saw them together, he
                        invariably withdrew in as unobtrusive a manner as haste would allow.
                    "What you doin'?" Sam asked.
                    "Nothin'. What you?"
                    "I'll show you if you'll come over to our
                        house," said Sam, who was wearing an important and secretive
                        expression.
                    "What for?" Penrod showed little interest.
                    "Well, I said I'd show you if you came on over,
                        didn't I?"
                    "But you haven't got anything I haven't
                        got," said Penrod indifferently. "I know everything
                        that's in your yard and in your stable, and there isn't a
                        thing"
                    "I didn't say it was in the yard or in the stable, did
                        I?"
                    "Well, there ain't anything in your house,"
                        returned Penrod frankly, "that I'd walk two feet to look
                        atnot a thing!"
                    "Oh, no!" Sam assumed mockery. "Oh, no,  you wouldn't! You know what it is,
                        don't you? Yes, you do!"
                    Penrod's curiosity stirred somewhat.
                    "Well, all right," he said, "I got
                        nothin' to do. I just as soon go. What is it?"
                    "You wait and see," said Sam, as they climbed the fence.
                        "I bet your ole eyes'll open pretty far
                        in about a minute or so!"
                    "I bet they don't. It takes a good deal to get me excited,
                        unless it's sumpthing mighty"
                    "You'll see!" Sam promised.
                    He opened an alley gate and stepped into his own yard in a manner signalling
                        cautionthough the exploit, thus far, certainly required noneand Penrod began
                        to be impressed and hopeful. They entered the house, silently, encountering
                        no one, and Sam led the way upstairs, tiptoeing, implying unusual and
                        increasing peril. Turning, in the upper hall, they went into Sam's
                        father's bedroom, and Sam closed the door with a caution so genuine
                        that already Penrod's eyes began to fulfil his host's
                        prediction. Adventures in another boy's house are trying to the
                        nerves; and another boy's father's bedroom, when invaded,
                        has a violated sanctity that is almost appalling. Penrod felt that something
                             was about to happensomething much more
                        important than he had anticipated.
                    Sam tiptoed across the room to a chest of drawers, and, kneeling, carefully
                        pulled out the lowest drawer until the surface of its contentsMr.
                        Williams' winter underwearlay exposed. Then he fumbled beneath the
                        garments and drew forth a large object, displaying it triumphantly to the
                        satisfactorily dum-founded Penrod.
                    It was a blue-steel Colt's revolver, of the heaviest pattern made in
                        the Seventies. Mr. Williams had inherited it from Sam's grandfather
                        (a small man, a deacon, and dyspeptic) and it was larger and more horrible
                        than any revolver either of the boys had ever seen in any picture, moving or
                        stationary. Moreover, greenish bullets of great size were to be seen in the
                        chambers of the cylinder, suggesting massacre rather than mere murder. This
                        revolver was Real and it was Loaded!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    BINGISM
                    
                        BOTH boys lived breathlessly through a magnificent moment.
                    "Leave me have it!" gasped Penrod. "Leave me have
                        hold of it!"
                    "You wait a minute!" Sam protested, in a whisper.
                        "I want to show you how I do."
                    "No; you let me show you how I do!"
                        Penrod insisted; and they scuffled for possession.
                    "Look out!" Sam whispered warningly. "It might go
                        off."
                    "Then you better leave me have it!" And Penrod, victorious
                        and flushed, stepped back, the weapon in his grasp.
                        "Here," he said, "this is the way I do: You be a
                        crook; and suppose you got a dagger, and I"
                    "I don't want any dagger," Sam protested,
                        advancing. "I want that revolaver. It's my
                        father's revolaver, ain't it?"
                    "Well, wait a minute, can't you? I got a
                        right to  show you the way I do, first, haven't I?" Penrod began an improvisation
                        on the spot. "Say I'm comin' along after dark
                        like thislook, Sam! And say you try to make a jump at me"
                    "I won't!" Sam declined this rle impatiently.
                        "I guess it ain't your father's
                        revolaver, is it?"
                    "Well, it may be your father's but it ain't
                        yours," Penrod argued, becoming logical. "It
                        ain't either's of us revolaver, so I got as much
                        right"
                    "You haven't either. It's my fath"
                    
                        "Watch, can't youjust a
                        minute!" Penrod urged vehemently. "I'm not
                        goin' to keep it, am I? You can have it when I get through,
                        can't you? Here's how I do: I'm
                        comin' along after dark, just walkin' along this waylike
                        thislook, Sam!"
                    Penrod, suiting the action to the word, walked to the other end of the room,
                        swinging the revolver at his side with affected carelessness.
                    "I'm just walkin' along like this, and first I
                        don't see you," continued the actor. "Then I kind
                        of get a notion sumpthing wrong's liable to happen, so I
                        No!" He interrupted himself abruptly. "No; that
                        isn't it. You wouldn't notice that I had my good ole
                        revolaver with me. You wouldn't think I had one, because
                        it'd be under my coat like  this, and
                        you wouldn't see it." Penrod stuck the muzzle of the
                        pistol into the waistband of his knickerbockers at the left side and,
                        buttoning his jacket, sustained the weapon in concealment by pressure of his
                        elbow. "So you think I haven't got any; you think
                        I'm just a man comin' along, and so you"
                    Sam advanced. "Well, you've had your turn," he
                        said. "Now, it's mine. I'm goin' to show
                        you how I"
                    
                        "Watch me, can't you?" Penrod
                        wailed. "I haven't showed you how I do,
                        have I? My goodness! Can't you watch me a minute?"
                    "I have been! You said yourself it'd be
                        my turn soon as you"
                    "My goodness! Let me have a chance, can't
                        you?" Penrod retreated to the wall, turning his right side toward
                        Sam and keeping the revolver still protected under his coat. "I got
                        to have my turn first, haven't I?"
                    "Well, yours is over long ago."
                    "It isn't either! I"
                    "Anyway," said Sam decidedly, clutching him by the right
                        shoulder and endeavouring to reach his left side"anyway,
                        I'm goin' to have it now."
                    
                    "You said I could have my turn out!" Penrod, carried away
                        by indignation, raised his voice.
                    "I did not!" Sam, likewise lost to caution, asserted his
                        denial loudly.
                    "You did, too."
                    "You said"
                    "I never said anything!"
                    "You said Quit that!"
                    "Boys!" Mrs. Williams, Sam's mother, opened the
                        door of the room and stood upon the threshold The scuffling of Sam and
                        Penrod ceased instantly, and they stood hushed and stricken, while fear fell
                        upon them. "Boys, you weren't quarrelling, were
                        you?"
                    "Ma'am?" said Sam.
                    "Were you quarrelling with Penrod?"
                    "No, ma'am," answered Sam in a small voice.
                    "It sounded like it. What was the matter?"
                    Both boys returned her curious glance with meekness. They were summoning
                        their facultieswhich were needed. Indeed, these are the crises which prepare
                        a boy for the business difficulties of his later life. Penrod, with the huge
                        weapon beneath his jacket, insecurely supported by an elbow and by a
                        waistband which he instantly began to 
                        distrust, experienced distressful sensations similar to those of the owner
                        of too heavily insured property carrying a gasoline can under his overcoat
                        and detained for conversation by a policeman. And if, in the coming years,
                        it was to be Penrod's lot to find himself in that precise
                        situation, no doubt he would be the better prepared for it on account of
                        this present afternoon's experience under the scalding eye of Mrs.
                        Williams. It should be added that Mrs. Williams's eye was awful to
                        the imagination only. It was a gentle eye and but mildly curious, having no
                        remote suspicion of the dreadful truth, for Sam had backed upon the chest of
                        drawers and closed the damnatory open one with the calves of his legs.
                    Sam, not bearing the fatal evidence upon his person, was in a better state
                        than Penrod, though when boys fall into the stillness now assumed by these
                        two, it should be understood that they are suffering. Penrod, in fact, was
                        the prey to apprehension so keen that the actual pit of his stomach was
                        cold.
                    Being the actual custodian of the crime, he understood that his case was
                        several degrees more serious than that of Sam, who, in the event of
                        detection,  would be convicted as only an
                        accessory. It was a lesson, and Penrod already repented his selfishness in
                        not allowing Sam to show how he did, first.
                    "You're sure you weren't quarrelling,
                        Sam?" said Mrs. Williams.
                    "No, ma'am; we were just talking.'
                    Still she seemed dimly uneasy, and her eye swung to Penrod.
                    "What were you and Sam talking about, Penrod?"
                    "Ma'am?"
                    "What were you talking about?"
                    Penrod gulped invisibly.
                    "Well," he murmured, "it wasn't much.
                        Different things."
                    "What things?"
                    "Oh, just sumpthing. Different things."
                    "I'm glad you weren't quarrelling," said
                        Mrs. Williams, reassured by this reply, which, though somewhat baffling, was
                        thoroughly familiar to her ear. "Now, if you'll come
                        downstairs, I'll give you each one cookie and no more, so your
                        appetites won't be spoiled for your dinners."
                    She stood, evidently expecting them to precede her. To linger might renew
                        vague suspicion, causing it to become more definite; and boys preserve  themselves from moment to moment, not often
                        attempting to secure the future. Consequently, the apprehensive Sam and the
                        unfortunate Penrod (with the monstrous implement bulking against his ribs)
                        walked out of the room and down the stairs, their countenances indicating an
                        interior condition of solemnity. And a curious shade of behaviour might have
                        here interested a criminologist. Penrod endeavoured to keep as close to Sam
                        as possible, like a lonely person seeking company, while, on the other hand,
                        Sam kept moving away from Penrod, seeming to desire an appearance of
                        aloofness.
                    "Go into the library, boys," said Mrs. Williams, as the
                        three reached the foot of the stairs. "I'll bring you your
                        cookies. Papa's in there."
                    Under her eye the two entered the library, to find Mr. Williams reading his
                        evening paper. He looked up pleasantly, but it seemed to Penrod that he had
                        an ominous and penetrating expression.
                    "What have you been up to, you boys?" inquired this enemy.
                    "Nothing," said Sam. "Different things."
                    "What like?"
                    "Ohjust different things."
                    
                    Mr. Williams nodded; then his glance rested casually upon Penrod.
                    "What's the matter with your arm, Penrod?"
                    Penrod became paler, and Sam withdrew from him almost conspicuously.
                    "Sir?"
                    "I said, What's the matter with your arm?"
                    "Which one?" Penrod quavered.
                    "Your left. You seem to be holding it in an unnatural position. Have
                        you hurt it?"
                    Penrod swallowed. "Yes, sir. A boy bit meI mean a doga dog bit
                        me."
                    Mr. Williams murmured sympathetically: "That's too bad!
                        Where did he bite you?"
                    "On theright on the elbow."
                    "Good gracious! Perhaps you ought to have it cauterized."
                    "Sir?"
                    "Did you have a doctor look at it?"
                    "No, sir. My mother put some stuff from the drug store on
                        it."
                    "Oh, I see. Probably it's all right, then."
                    "Yes, sir." Penrod drew breath more freely, and accepted
                        the warm cookie Mrs. Williams brought him. He ate it without relish.
                    
                    "You can have only one apiece," she said.
                        "It's too near dinner-time. You needn't beg for
                        any more, because you can't have 'em."
                    They were good about that; they were in no frame of digestion for cookies.
                    "Was it your own dog that bit you?" Mr. Williams inquired.
                    "Sir? No, sir. It wasn't Duke."
                    "Penrod!" Mrs. Williams exclaimed. "When did it
                        happen?"
                    "I don't remember just when," he answered feebly.
                        "I guess it was day before yesterday."
                    "Gracious! How did it"
                    "Hehe just came up and bit me."
                    "Why, that's terrible! It might be dangerous for other
                        children," said Mrs. Williams, with a solicitous glance at Sam.
                        "Don't you know whom he belongs to?"
                    "No'm. It was just a dog."
                    "You poor boy! Your mother must have been dreadfully frightened when
                        you came home and she saw"
                    She was interrupted by the entrance of a middle-aged coloured woman.
                        "Miz Williams," she began, and then, as she caught sight
                        of Penrod, she addressed  him directly,
                        "You' ma telefoam if you here, send you home right away,
                        'cause they waitin' dinner on you."
                    "Run along, then," said Mrs. Williams, patting the visitor
                        lightly upon his shoulder; and she accompanied him to the front door.
                        "Tell your mother I'm so sorry about your getting bitten,
                        and you must take good care of it, Penrod."
                    "Yes'm."
                    Penrod lingered helplessly outside the doorway, looking at Sam, who stood
                        partially obscured in the hall, behind Mrs. Williams. Penrod's
                        eyes, with a veiled anguish, conveyed a pleading for help as well as a
                        horror of the position in which he found himself. Sam, however, pale and
                        determined, seemed to have assumed a stony attitude of detachment, as if it
                        were well understood between them that his own comparative innocence was
                        established, and that whatever catastrophe ensued, Penrod had brought it on
                        and must bear the brunt of it alone.
                    "Well, you'd better run along, since they're
                        waiting for you at home," said Mrs. Williams, closing the door.
                        "Good-night, Penrod."
                    . . . Ten minutes later Penrod took his place 
                        at his own dinner-table, somewhat breathless but with an expression of
                        perfect composure.
                    "Can't you ever come home without being
                        telephoned for?" demanded his father.
                    "Yes, sir." And Penrod added reproachfully, placing the
                        blame upon members of Mr. Schofield's own class,
                        "Sam's mother and father kept me, or I'd been
                        home long ago. They would keep on talkin', and I guess I had to be
                            polite, didn't I?"
                    His left arm was as free as his right; there was no dreadful bulk beneath his
                        jacket, and at Penrod's age the future is too far away to be
                        worried about. The difference between temporary security and permanent
                        security is left for grown people. To Penrod, security was security, and
                        before his dinner was half eaten his spirit had become fairly serene.
                    Nevertheless, when he entered the empty carriage-house of the stable, on his
                        return from school the next afternoon, his expression was not altogether
                        without apprehension, and he stood in the doorway looking well about him
                        before he lifted a loosened plank in the flooring and took from beneath it
                        the grand old weapon of the Williams family. No- did his
                        eye lighten with any pleasurable excitement as he sat himself down in a
                        shadowy corner and  began some sketchy
                        experiments with the mechanism. The allure of first sight was gone. In Mr.
                        Williams' bedchamber, with Sam clamouring for possession, it had
                        seemed to Penrod that nothing in the world was so desirable as to have that
                        revolver in his own handsit was his dream come true. But, for reasons not
                        definitely known to him, the charm had departed; he turned the cylinder
                        gingerly, almost with distaste; and slowly there stole over him a feeling
                        that there was something repellent and threatening in the heavy blue steel.
                    Thus does the long-dreamed Real misbehavenot only for Penrod!
                    More out of a sense of duty to bingism in general than for any other reason,
                        he pointed the revolver at the lawn-mower and gloomily murmured,
                        "Bing!"
                    Simultaneously, a low and cautious voice sounded from the yard outside,
                        "Yay, Penrod!" and Sam Williams darkened the doorway, his
                        eye falling instantly upon the weapon in his friend's hand. Sam
                        seemed relieved to see it.
                    "You didn't get caught with it, did you?" he said
                        hastily.
                    Penrod shook his head, rising.
                    "I guess not! I guess I got some brains around  me," he added, inspired by
                        Sam's presence to assume a slight swagger.
                        "They'd have to get up pretty early to find any good ole
                        revolaver, once I got my hands on it!"
                    "I guess we can keep it, all right," Sam said
                        confidentially. "Because this morning papa was putting on his
                        winter underclothes and he found it wasn't there, and they looked
                        all over and everywhere, and he was pretty mad, and said he knew it was
                        those cheap plumbers stole it that mamma got instead of the regular plumbers
                        he always used to have, and he said there wasn't any chance ever
                        gettin' it back, because you couldn't tell which one took
                        it, and they'd all swear it wasn't them. So it looks like
                        we could keep it for our revolaver, Penrod, don't it? I'll
                        give you half of it."
                    Penrod affected some enthusiasm. "Sam, we'll keep it out
                        here in the stable."
                    "Yes, and we'll go huntin' with it. We'll
                        do lots of things with it!" But Sam made no effort to take it, and
                        neither boy seemed to feel yesterday's necessity to show the other
                        how he did. "Wait till next Fourth o' July!" Sam
                        continued. "Oh, oh! Look out!"
                    This incited a genuine spark from Penrod.
                    
                    "Fourth o' July! I guess she'll be a little better
                        than any firecrackers! Just a little 'Bing! Bing! Bing!'
                        she'll be goin'. 'Bing! Bing!
                        Bing!'"
                    The suggestion of noise stirred his comrade. "I'll bet
                        she'll go off louder'n that time the gas-works blew up! I
                        wouldn't be afraid to shoot her off any
                        time."
                    "I bet you would," said Penrod. "You
                        aren't used to revolavers the way I"
                    "You aren't, either!" Sam exclaimed promptly.
                        "I wouldn't be any more afraid to shoot her off than you
                        would.
                    "You would, too!"
                    "I would not!"
                    "Well, let's see you then; you talk so much!" And
                        Penrod handed the weapon scornfully to Sam, who at once became less
                        self-assertive.
                    "I'd shoot her off in a minute," Sam said,
                        "only it might break sumpthing if it hit it."
                    "Hold her up in the air, then. It can't hurt the roof, can
                        it?"
                    Sam, with a desperate expression, lifted the revolver at arm's
                        length. Both boys turned away their heads, and Penrod put his fingers in his
                        earsbut nothing happened. "What's the matter?" he
                             demanded. "Why don't you
                        go on if you're goin' to?"
                    Sam lowered his arm. "I guess I didn't have her
                        cocked," he said apologetically, whereupon Penrod loudly jeered.
                    "Tryin' to shoot a revolaver and didn't know
                        enough to cock her! If I didn't know any more about revolavers than
                        that, I'd"
                    "There!" Sam exclaimed, managing to draw back the hammer
                        until two chilling clicks warranted his opinion that the pistol was now
                        ready to perform its office. "I guess she'll do all right
                        to suit you this time!"
                    "Well, why'n't you go ahead, then; you know so
                        much!" And as Sam raised his arm, Penrod again turned away his head
                        and placed his forefingers in his ears.
                    A pause followed.
                    "Why'n't you go ahead?"
                    Penrod, after waiting in keen suspense, turned to behold his friend standing
                        with his right arm above his head, his left hand over his left ear, and both
                        eyes closed.
                    "I can't pull the trigger," said Sam indistinctly,
                        his face convulsed as in sympathy with the great  muscular efforts of other parts of his body. "She won't
                        pull!"
                    "She won't?" Penrod remarked with scorn.
                        "I'll bet I could pull her."
                    Sam promptly opened his eyes and handed the weapon to Penrod.
                    "All right," he said, with surprising and unusual mildness.
                        "You try her, then."
                    Inwardly discomfited to a disagreeable extent, Penrod attempted to talk his
                        own misgivings out of countenance.
                    "Poor 'ittle baby!" he said, swinging the pistol
                        at his side with a fair pretense of careless ease. "Ain't
                        even strong enough to pull a trigger! Poor 'ittle baby! Well, if
                        you can't even do that much, you better watch me while I"
                    "Well," said Sam reasonably, "why don't
                        you go on and do it then?"
                    "Well, I am goin' to, ain't
                        I?"
                    "Well, then, why don't you?"
                    "Oh, I'll do it fast enough to suit you,
                        I guess, Penrod retorted, swinging the big revolver up a little higher than
                        his shoulder and pointing it in the direction of the double doors, which
                        opened upon the alley. "You better run, Sam," he jeered.
                             "You'll be pretty scared
                        when I shoot her off, I guess."
                    "Well, why don't you see if I will? I bet
                        you're afraid yourself."
                    "Oh, I am am I?" said Penrod, in a reckless voiceand his
                        finger touched the trigger. It seemed to him that his finger no more than
                        touched it; perhaps he had been reassured by Sam's assertion that
                        the trigger was difficult. His intentions must remain in doubt, and probably
                        Penrod himself was not certain of them; but one thing comes to the surface
                        as entirely definitethat trigger was not so hard to pull as Sam said it was.
                    
                        Bang! Wh-a-a-ack A shattering report split the air of the
                        stable, and there was an orifice of remarkable diameter in the alley door.
                        With these phenomena, three yells, expressing excitement of different kinds,
                        were almost simultaneoustwo from within the stable and the third from a
                        point in the alley about eleven inches lower than the orifice just
                        constructed in the planking of the door. This third point, roughly speaking,
                        was the open mouth of a gayly dressed young coloured man whose attention, as
                        he strolled, had been thus violently distracted from some mental
                        computations he was making in  numbers,
                        including, particularly, those symbols of ecstasy or woe, as the case might
                        be, seven and eleven. His eye at once perceived the orifice on a line
                        enervatingly little above the top of his head; and, although he had not
                        supposed himself so well known in this neighbourhood, he was aware that he
                        did, here and there, possess acquaintances of whom some such uncomplimentary
                        action might be expected as natural and characteristic. His immediate
                        procedure was to prostrate himself flat upon the ground, against the stable
                        doors.
                    In so doing, his shoulders came brusquely in contact with one of them, which
                        happened to be unfastened, and it swung open, revealing to his gaze two
                        stark-white white boys, one of them holding an enormous pistol and both
                        staring at him in stupor of ultimate horror. For, to the glassy eyes of
                        Penrod and Sam, the stratagem of the young coloured man, thus dropping to
                        earth, disclosed, with awful certainty, a slaughtered body.
                    This dreadful thing raised itself upon its elbows and looked at them, and
                        there followed a motionless momenta tableau of brief duration, for both boys
                        turned and would have fled, shrieking, but the body spoke.
                    
                    "'At's a nice business!" it said
                        reproachfully. "Nice business! Tryin' blow a
                        man's head off!"
                    Penrod was unable to speak, but Sam managed to summon the tremulous semblance
                        of a voice.
                    "Wherewhere did it hit you?" he gasped.
                    "Nemmine anything 'bout where it hit
                        me," the young coloured man returned, dusting his breast and knees
                        as he rose. "I want to know what kine o' white boys you
                        think you isman can't walk 'long street 'thout
                        you blowin' his head off!" He entered the stable and, with
                        an indignation surely justified, took the pistol from the limp, cold hand of
                        Penrod. "Whose gun you playin' with? Where you git
                        'at gun?"
                    "It's ours," quavered Sam. "It belongs to
                        us."
                    "Then you' pa ought to be 'rested," said
                        the young coloured man. "Lettin' boysp ay with
                        gun!" He examined the revolver with an interest in which there
                        began to appear symptoms of a pleasurable appreciation. "My
                        goo'ness! Gun like 'iss blow a team o' steers
                        thew a brick house! Look at 'at gun!"
                        With his right hand he twirled it in a manner most dexterous and surprising;
                        then suddenly he became severe. "You white boy, listen
                        me!" he said. "Ef I went an did what I ought to did, I'd march straight  out 'iss stable, git a policeman, an' tell him
                        'rest you an' take you off to jail.
                        'At's what you needblowin' man's head
                        off! Listen me: I'm goin' take 'iss gun
                        an' th'ow her away where you can't do no
                        mo' harm with her. I'm goin' take her way off in
                        the woods an' th'ow her away where can't nobody
                        fine her an' go blowin' man's head off with her.
                        'At's what I'm goin' do!" And
                        placing the revolver inside his coat as inconspicuously as possible, he
                        proceeded to the open door and into the alley, where he turned for a final
                        word. "I let you off 'iss one time," he said,
                        "but listen meyou listen, white boy: you bet' not tell
                        you' pa. I ain' goin' tell him,
                        an' you ain' goin' tell him. He
                        want know where gun gone, you tell him you los' her."
                    He disappeared rapidly.
                    Sam Williams, swallowing continuously, presently walked to the alley door,
                        and remarked in a weak voice, "I'm sick at my
                        stummick." He paused, then added more decidedly:
                        "I'm goin' home. I guess I've stood
                        about enough around here for one day!" And bestowing a last glance
                        upon his friend, who was now sitting dumbly upon the floor in the exact spot
                        where he had stood to fire the dreadful shot, Sam moved slowly away.
                    
                    The early shades of autumn evening were falling when Penrod emerged from the
                        stable; and a better light might have disclosed to a shrewd eye some
                        indications that here was a boy who had been extremely, if temporarily, ill.
                        He went to the cistern, and, after a cautious glance round the reassuring
                        horizon, lifted the iron cover. Then he took from the inner pocket of his
                        jacket an object which he dropped listlessly into the water: it was a bit of
                        wood, whittled to the likeness of a pistol. And though his lips moved not,
                        nor any sound issued from his vocal organs, yet were words formed. They were
                        so deep in the person of Penrod they came almost from the slowly
                        convalescing profundities of his stomach. These words concerned firearms,
                        and they were:
                    "Wish I'd never seen one! Never want to see one
                        again!"
                    Of course Penrod had no way of knowing that, as regards bingism in general,
                        several of the most distinguished old gentlemen in Europe were at that very
                        moment in exactly the same state of mind.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    THE IN-OR-IN
                    
                        GEORGIE BASSETT was a boy set apart. Not only that;
                        Georgie knew that he was a boy set apart. He would think about it for ten or
                        twenty minutes at a time, and he could not look at himself in a mirror and
                        remain wholly with out emotion. What that emotion was, he would have been
                        unable to put into words, but it helped him to understand that there was a
                        certain noble something about him which other boys did not possess.
                    Georgie's mother had been the first to discover that Georgie was a
                        boy set apart. In fact, Georgie did not know it until one day, when he
                        happened to overhear his mother telling two of his aunts about it. True, he
                        had always understood that he was the best boy in town and he intended to be
                        a minister when he grew up, but he had never before comprehended the full
                        extent of his sanctity, and, from that fraught moment onward, he had an
                        almost theatrical sense of his set-apartness.
                    
                    Penrod Schofield and Sam Williams and the other boys of the neighbourhood all
                        were conscious that there was something different and spiritual about
                        Georgie, and, though this consciousness of theirs may have been a little
                        obscure, it was none the less actual. That is to say, they knew that Georgie
                        Bassett was a boy set apart, but they did not know that they knew it.
                        Georgie's air and manner at all times demonstrated to them that the
                        thing was so, and, moreover, their mothers absorbed appreciation of
                        Georgie's wonderfulness from the very fount of it, for Mrs.
                        Bassett's conversation was of little else. Thus, the radiance of
                        his character became the topic of envious parental comment during moments of
                        strained patience in many homes, so that altogether the most remarkable fact
                        to be stated of Georgie Bassett is that he escaped the consequences as long
                        as he did.
                    Strange as it may seem, no actual violence was done him except upon the
                        incidental occasion of a tar-fight, into which he was drawn by an obvious
                        eccentricity on the part of destiny. Naturally, he was not popular with his
                        comrades; in all games he was pushed aside, and disregarded, being
                        invariably the tail-ender in every pastime in which leaders  "chose sides"; his counsels
                        were slighted as worse than weightless, and all his opinions instantly
                        hooted. Still, considering the circumstances fairly and thoughtfully, it is
                        difficult to deny that his boy companions showed creditable moderation in
                        their treatment of him. That is, they were moderate up to a certain date,
                        and even then they did not directly attack himthere was nothing cold-blooded
                        about it at all. The thing was forced upon them, and, though they all felt
                        pleased and upliftedwhile it was happeningthey did not understand precisely
                        why. Nothing could more clearly prove their innocence of heart than this
                        very ignorance, and yet none of the grown people who later felt themselves
                        concerned in the matter was able to look at it in that light. Now, here was
                        a characteristic working of those reactions which produce what is sometimes
                        called "the injustice of life," because the grown people
                        were responsible for the whole affair and were really the guilty parties. It
                        was from grown people that Georgie Bassett learned that he was a boy set
                        apart, and the effect upon him was what alienated his friends. Then these
                        alienated friends were brought (by odious comparisons on the part of grown
                        people) to a condition of mind wherein they suffered  dumb annoyance, like a low fever, whenever they heard
                        Georgie's name mentioned, while association with his actual person
                        became every day more and more irritating. And yet, having laid this fuse
                        and having kept it constantly glowing, the grown people expected nothing to
                        happen to Georgie.
                    The catastrophe befell as a consequence of Sam Williams deciding to have a
                        shack in his backyard. Sam had somehow obtained a vasty piano-box and a
                        quantity of lumber, and, summoning Penrod Schofield and the coloured
                        brethren, Herman and Verman, he expounded to them his building-plans and
                        offered them shares and benefits in the institution he purposed to found.
                        Acceptance was enthusiastic; straightway the assembly became a union of
                        carpenters all of one mind, and ten days saw the shack not completed but
                        comprehensible. Anybody could tell, by that time, that it was intended for a
                        shack.
                    There was a door on leather hinges; it drooped, perhaps, but it was a door.
                        There was a windownot a glass one, but, at least, it could be
                        "looked out of," as Sam said. There was a chimney made of
                        stovepipe, though that was merely decorative, because the cooking was done
                        out of doors in an underground "furnace" which the boys
                        excavated. There  were pictures pasted on the
                        interior walls, and, hanging from a nail, there was a crayon portrait of
                        Sam's grandfather, which he had brought down from the attic
                        quietly, though, as he said, it "wasn't any use on earth
                        up there." There were two lame chairs from Penrod's attic,
                        and along one wall ran a low and feeble structure intended to serve as a
                        bench or divan. This would come in handy, Sam said, if any of the party
                        "had to lay down or anything," and at a pinch (such as a
                        meeting of the association) it would serve to seat all the members in a row.
                    For, coincidentally with the development of the shack, the builders became
                        something more than partners. Later, no one could remember who first
                        suggested the founding of a secret order, or society, as a measure of
                        exclusiveness and to keep the shack sacred to members only, but it was an
                        idea that presently began to be more absorbing and satisfactory than even
                        the shack itself. The outward manifestations of it might have been observed
                        in the increased solemnity and preoccupation of the Caucasian members and in
                        a few ceremonial observances exposed to the public eye. As an instance of
                        these latter, Mrs. Williams, happening to glance  from a rearward window, about four o'clock one afternoon, found
                        her attention arrested by what seemed to be a flag-raising before the door
                        of the shack. Sam and Herman and Verman stood in attitudes of rigid
                        attention, shoulder to shoulder, while Penrod Schofield, facing them, was
                        apparently delivering some sort of exhortation which he read from a
                        scribbled sheet of foolscap. Concluding this, he lifted from the ground a
                        long and somewhat warped clothes-prop, from one end of which hung a whitish
                        flag, or pennon, bearing an inscription. Sam and Herman and Verman lifted
                        their right hands, while Penrod placed the other end of the clothes-prop in
                        a hole in the ground, with the pennon fluttering high above the shack. He
                        then raised his own right hand, and the four boys repeated something in
                        concert. It was inaudible to Mrs. Williams, but she was able to make out the
                        inscription upon the pennon. It consisted of the peculiar phrase,
                        "In-Or-In," done in black paint upon a muslin ground, and
                        consequently seeming to be in need of a blotter.
                    It recurred to her mind, later that evening, when she happened to find
                        herself alone with Sam in the library, and, in merest idle curiosity, she
                        asked:
                    
                    "Sam, what does 'In-Or-In' mean?"
                    Sam, bending over an arithmetic, uncreased his brow till it became of a blank
                        and marble smoothness.
                    "Ma'am?"
                    "What are those words on your flag?"
                    Sam gave her a long, cold, mystic look, rose to his feet, and left the room
                        with emphasis and dignity. For a moment she was puzzled. But Sam's
                        older brother was this year completing his education at a university, and
                        Mrs. Williams was not altogether ignorant of the obligations of secrecy
                        imposed upon some brotherhoods; so she was able to comprehend Sam's
                        silent withdrawal, and, instead of summoning him back for further questions,
                        she waited until he was out of hearing and then began to laugh.
                    Sam's action was in obedience to one of the rules adopted, at his
                        own suggestion, as a law of the order. Penrod advocated it warmly. From
                        Margaret he had heard accounts of her friends in college and thus had
                        learned much that ought to be done. On the other hand, Herman subscribed to
                        it with reluctance, expressing a decided opinion that if he and Verman were
                        questioned upon the matter at home and adopted the line of conduct required
                        by the new rule, it  would be well for them to
                        depart not only from the room in which the questioning took place but from
                        the house, and hurriedly at that. "An' stay away!" he concluded.
                    Verman, being tongue-tiednot without advantage in this case, and surely an
                        ideal qualification for membershipwas not so apprehensive. He voted with Sam
                        and Penrod, carrying the day.
                    New rules were adopted at every meeting (though it cannot be said that all of
                        them were practicable) for, in addition to the information possessed by Sam
                        and Penrod, Herman and Verman had many ideas of their own, founded upon
                        remarks overheard at home. Both their parents belonged to secret orders,
                        their father to the Innapenent 'Nevolent Lodge (so stated by
                        Herman) and their mother to the Order of White Doves.
                    From these and other sources, Penrod found no difficulty in compiling
                        material for what came to be known as the "rixual"; and it
                        was the rixual he was reading to the members when Mrs. Williams happened to
                        observe the ceremonial raising of the emblem of the order.
                    The rixual contained the oath, a key to the secret language, or code (devised
                        by Penrod for use in  uncertain emergencies),
                        and passwords for admission to the shack, also instructions for recognizing
                        a brother member in the dark, and a rather alarming sketch of the things to
                        be done during the initiation of a candidate.
                    This last was employed for the benefit of Master Roderick Magsworth Bitts,
                        Junior, on the Saturday following the flag-raising. He presented himself in
                        Sam's yard, not for initiation, indeedhaving no previous knowledge
                        of the Society of the In-Or-Inbut for general purposes of sport and pastime.
                        At first sight of the shack he expressed anticipations of pleasure, adding
                        some suggestions for improving the architectural effect. Being prevented,
                        however, from entering, and even from standing in the vicinity of the sacred
                        building, he plaintively demanded an explanation; whereupon he was commanded
                        to withdraw to the front yard for a time, and the members held meeting in
                        the shack. Roddy was elected, and consented to undergo the initiation.
                    He was not the only new member that day. A short time after Roddy had been
                        taken into the shack for the reading of the rixual and other ceremonies,
                        little Maurice Levy entered the Williams' gate and strolled round
                        to the backyard, looking for  Sam. He was
                        surprised and delighted to behold the promising shack, and, like Roddy,
                        entertained fair hopes for the future.
                    The door of the shack was closed; a board covered the window, but a murmur of
                        voices came from within. Maurice stole close and listened. Through a crack
                        he could see the flicker of a candle-flame, and he heard the voice of Penrod
                        Schofield:
                    "Roddy Bitts, do you solemnly swear?"
                    "Well, all right," said the voice of Roddy, somewhat
                        breathless.
                    "How many fingers you see before your eyes?"
                    "Can't see any," Roddy returned. "How
                        could I, with this thing over my eyes, and laying down on my stummick,
                        anyway?"
                    "Then the time has come," Penrod announced in solemn tones.
                        "The time has come."
                    Whack!
                    Evidently a broad and flat implement was thereupon applied to Roddy.
                    
                        "Ow!" complained the candidate.
                    "No noise!" said Penrod sternly, and added: "Roddy
                        Bitts must now say the oath. Say exackly what I say, Roddy, and if you
                        don'twell, you better, because you'll see! Now, say
                        'I solemnly swear'"
                    
                    "I solemnly swear" said Roddy.
                    "To keep the secrets"
                    "To keep the secrets" Roddy repeated.
                    "To keep the secrets in infadelaty and violate and
                        sanctuary."
                    "What?" Roddy naturally inquired.
                    Whack!
                    
                        "Ow!" cried Roddy.
                        "That's no fair!"
                    "You got to say just what I say," Penrod
                        was heard informing him. "That's the rixual, and anyway,
                        even if you do get it right, Verman's got to hit you every now and
                        then, because that's part of the rixual, too. Now go on and say it.
                        'I solemnly swear to keep the secrets in infadelaty and violate and
                        sanctuary.'"
                    "I solemnly swear" Roddy began.
                    But Maurice Levy was tired of being no party to such fascinating proceedings,
                        and he began to hammer upon the door.
                    "Sam! Sam Williams!" he shouted. "Lemme in there!
                        I know lots about 'nishiatin'. Lemme in!"
                    The door was flung open, revealing Roddy Bitts, blindfolded and bound, lying
                        face down upon the floor of the shack; but Maurice had only a fugitive  glimpse of this pathetic figure before he,
                        too, was recumbent. Four boys flung themselves indignantly upon him and bore
                        him to earth.
                    "Hi!" he squealed. "What you doin'?
                        Haven't you got any sense?"
                    And, from within the shack, Roddy added his own protest.
                    "Let me up, can't you?" he cried. "I got
                        to see what's goin' on out there, haven't I? I
                        guess I'm not goin' to lay here all day!
                        What you think I'm made of?"
                    "You hush up!" Penrod commanded. "This is a nice
                        biznuss!" he continued, deeply aggrieved. "What kind of a
                        'nishiation do you expect this is, anyhow?"
                    "Well, here's Maurice Levy gone and seen part of the
                        secrets," said Sam, in a voice of equal plaintiveness.
                        "Yes; and I bet he was listenin' out here, too!"
                    "Lemme up!" begged Maurice, half stifled. "I
                        didn't do any harm to your old secrets, did I? Anyways, I just as
                        soon be 'nishiated myself. I ain't afraid. So if you
                        'nishiate me, what difference will it make if I did hear a
                        little?"
                    Struck with this idea, which seemed reasonable, 
                        Penrod obtained silence from every one except Roddy, and it was decided to
                        allow Maurice to rise and retire to the front yard. The brother members then
                        withdrew within the shack, elected Maurice to the fellowship, and completed
                        the initiation of Mr. Bitts. After that, Maurice was summoned and underwent
                        the ordeal with fortitude, though the newest brotherstill tingling with his
                        own experienceshelped to make certain parts of the rixual unprecedentedly
                        severe.
                    Once endowed with full membership, Maurice and Roddy accepted the obligations
                        and privileges of the order with enthusiasm. Both interested themselves
                        immediately in improvements for the shack, and made excursions to their
                        homes to obtain materials. Roddy returned with a pair of lensless
                        mother-of-pearl opera-glasses, a contribution which led to the creation of a
                        new office, called the "warner." It was his duty to climb
                        upon the back fence once every fifteen minutes and search the horizon for
                        intruders or "anybody that hasn't got any biznuss around
                        here." This post proved so popular, at first, that it was found
                        necessary to provide for rotation in office, and to shorten the interval
                        from fifteen minutes to an indefinite but much briefer  period, determined principally by argument between the
                        incumbent and his successor.
                    And Maurice Levy contributed a device so pleasant, and so necessary to the
                        prevention of interruption during meetings, that Penrod and Sam wondered why
                        they had not thought of it themselves long before. It consisted of about
                        twenty-five feet of garden hose in fair condition. One end of it was
                        introduced into the shack through a knothole, and the other was secured by
                        wire round the faucet of hydrant in the stable. Thus, if members of the
                        order were assailed by thirst during an important session, or in the course
                        of an initiation, it would not be necessary for them all to leave the shack.
                        One could go, instead, and when he had turned on the water at the hydrant,
                        the members in the shack could drink without leaving their places. It was
                        discovered, also, that the section of hose could be used as a speaking-tube;
                        and though it did prove necessary to explain by shouting outside the tube
                        what one had said into it, still there was a general feeling that it
                        provided another means of secrecy and an additional safeguard against
                        intrusion. It is true that during the half-hour immediately following the
                        installation of this convenience, there  was a
                        little violence among the brothers concerning a question of policy. Sam,
                        Roddy, and VermanVerman especiallywished to use the tube "to talk
                        through," and Maurice, Penrod, and Herman wished to use it
                        "to drink through." As a consequence of the success of the
                        latter party, the shack became too damp for habitation until another day,
                        and several members, as they went home at dusk, might easily have been
                        mistaken for survivors of some marine catastrophe.
                    Still, not every shack is equipped with running water, and exuberance
                        befitted the occasion. Everybody agreed that the afternoon had been one of
                        the most successful and important in many weeks. The Order of the In-Or-In
                        was doing splendidly: and yet every brother felt, in his heart, that there
                        was one thing that could spoil it. Against that fatality, all were united to
                        protect themselves, the shack, the rixual, the opera-glasses, and the
                        water-and-speaking tube. Sam spoke not only for himself but for the entire
                        order when he declared, in speeding the last parting guest:
                    "Well, we got to stick to one thing or we might as well quit! Georgie Bassett better not come pokin'
                        around!"
                    "No, sir!" said Penrod,
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    GEORGIE BECOMES A MEMBER
                    
                        BUT Georgie did. It is difficult to imagine how cause and
                        effect could be more closely and patiently related. Inevitably, Georgie did
                        come poking around. How was he to refrain when daily, up and down the
                        neighbourhood, the brothers strutted with mystic and important airs, when
                        they whispered together and uttered words of strange import in his presence?
                        Thus did they defeat their own object. They desired to keep Georgie at a
                        distance, yet they could not refrain from posing before him. They wished to
                        impress upon him the fact that he was an outsider, and they but succeeded in
                        rousing his desire to be an insider, a desire which soon became a
                        determination. For few were the days until he not only knew of the shack but
                        had actually paid it a visit. That was upon a morning when the other boys
                        were in school, Georgie having found himself indisposed until about ten
                        o'clock, when he was able to take nourishment  and subsequently to interest himself in this rather private
                        errand. He climbed the Williams' alley fence, and having made a
                        modest investigation of the exterior of the shack, which was padlocked,
                        retired without having disturbed anything except his own peace of mind. His
                        curiosity, merely piqued before, now became ravenous and painful. It was not
                        allayed by the mystic manners of the members or by the unnecessary emphasis
                        they laid upon their coldness toward himself; and when a committee informed
                        him darkly that there were "secret orders" to prevent his
                        coming within "a hundred and sixteen feet"such was
                        Penrod's arbitrary languageof the Williams' yard,
                        "in any direction," Georgie could bear it no longer, but
                        entered his own house, and, in burning words, laid the case before a woman
                        higher up. Here the responsibility for things is directly traceable to grown
                        people. Within that hour, Mrs. Bassett sat in Mrs. Williams'
                        library to address her hostess upon the subject of Georgie's
                        grievance.
                    "Of course, it isn't Sam's fault," she
                        said, concluding her interpretation of the affair. "Georgie likes
                        Sam, and didn't blame him at all. No; we both felt that Sam would
                        always be a polite, nice boyGeorgie  used those
                        very wordsbut Penrod seems to have a very bad influence.
                        Georgie felt that Sam would want him to come and play in
                        the shack if Penrod didn't make Sam do everything he wants. What hurt Georgie most is that it's Sam's shack, and he felt for another boy to come and tell
                        him that he mustn't even go near itwell, of
                        course, it was very trying. And he's very much hurt with little
                        Maurice Levy, too. He said that he was sure that even Penrod would be glad
                        to have him for a member of their little club if it weren't for
                        Mauriceand I think he spoke of Roddy Bitts, too."
                    The fact that the two remaining members were coloured was omitted from this
                        discoursewhich leads to the deduction that Georgie had not mentioned it.
                    "Georgie said all the other boys liked him very much," Mrs.
                        Bassett continued, "and that he felt it his duty to join the club,
                        because most of them were so anxious to have him, and he is sure he would
                        have a good influence over them. He really did speak of it in quite a
                        touching way, Mrs. Williams. Of course, we mothers mustn't brag of
                        our sons too much, but Georgie really isn't like
                        other boys. He is so sensitive, you can't think how this little
                        affair  has hurt him, and I felt that it might
                        even make him ill. You see, I had to respect his reason
                        for wanting to join the club. And if I am his
                        mother"she gave a deprecating little laugh"I must say that
                        it seems noble to want to join not really for his own sake but for the good
                        that he felt his influence would have over the other boys. Don't
                        you think so, Mrs. Williams?"
                    Mrs. Williams said that she did, indeed. And the result of this interview was
                        another, which took place between Sam and his father that evening, for Mrs.
                        Williams, after talking to Sam herself, felt that the matter needed a man to
                        deal with it. The man did it man-fashion.
                    "You either invite Georgie Bassett to play in the shack all he wants
                        to," said the man, "or the shack comes down."
                    "But"
                    "Take your choice. I'm not going to have neighbourhood
                        quarrels over such"
                    "But, papa"
                    "That's enough! You said yourself you haven't
                        anything against Georgie."
                    "I said"
                    "You said you didn't like him, but you couldn't
                             tell why. You couldn't state a
                        single instance of bad behaviour against him. You couldn't mention
                        anything he ever did which wasn't what a gentleman should have
                        done. It's no use, I tell you. Either you invite Georgie to play in
                        the shack as much as he likes next Saturday, or the shack comes
                        down."
                    "But, papa"
                    "I'm not going to talk any more about it. If you want the
                        shack pulled down and hauled away, you and your friends continue to
                        tantalize this inoffensive little boy the way you have been. If you want to
                        keep it, be polite and invite him in."
                    "But"
                    "That's ALL, I said!"
                    Sam was crushed.
                    Next day he communicated the bitter substance of the edict to the other
                        members, and gloom became unanimous. So serious an aspect did the affair
                        present that it was felt necessary to call a special meeting of the order
                        after school. The entire membership was in attendance; the door was closed,
                        the window covered with a board, and the candle lighted. Then all of the
                        brothersexcept onebegan to express their sorrowful apprehensions. The whole
                        thing was spoiled, they agreed, if Georgie Bassett  had to be taken in. On the other hand, if they didn't
                        take him in, "there wouldn't be anything left."
                        The one brother who failed to express any opinion was little Verman. He was
                        otherwise occupied.
                    Verman had been the official paddler during the initiations of Roddy Bitts
                        and Maurice Levy; his work had been conscientious, and it seemed to be taken
                        by consent that he was to continue in office. An old shingle from the
                        woodshed roof had been used for the exercise of his function in the cases of
                        Roddy and Maurice, but this afternoon he had brought with him a new one,
                        which he had picked up somewhere. It was broader and thicker than the old
                        one, and, during the melancholy prophecies of his fellows, he whittled the
                        lesser end of it to the likeness of a handle. Thus engaged, he bore no
                        appearance of despondency; on the contrary, his eyes, shining brightly in
                        the candlelight, indicated that eager thoughts possessed him, while from
                        time to time the sound of a chuckle issued from his simple African throat.
                        Gradually the other brothers began to notice his preoccupation, and one by
                        one they fell silent, regarding him thoughtfully. Slowly the darkness of
                        their countenances lifted a little; something 
                        happier and brighter began to glimmer from each boyish face. All eyes
                        remained fascinated upon Verman.
                    "Well, anyway," said Penrod, in a tone that was almost
                        cheerful, "this is only Tuesday. We got pretty near all week to fix
                        up the 'nishiation for Saturday."
                    And Saturday brought sunshine to make the occasion more tolerable for both
                        the candidate and the society. Mrs. Williams, going to the window to watch
                        Sam, when he left the house after lunch, marked with pleasure that his look
                        and manner were sprightly as he skipped down the walk to the front gate.
                        There he paused and yodelled for a time. An answering yodel came presently;
                        Penrod Schofield appeared, and by his side walked Georgie Bassett. Georgie
                        was always neat, but Mrs. Williams noticed that he exhibited unusual gloss
                        and polish to-day. As for his expression, it was a shade too complacent
                        under the circumstances, though, for that matter, perfect tact avoids an air
                        of triumph under any circumstances. Mrs. Williams was pleased to observe
                        that Sam and Penrod betrayed no resentment whatever; they seemed to have
                        accepted defeat in a good spirit and to be inclined to make the best of  Georgie. Indeed, they appeared to be genuinely
                        excited about himit was evident that their cordiality was eager and
                        wholehearted.
                    The three boys conferred for a few moments; then Sam disappeared round the
                        house and returned, waving his hand and nodding. Upon that, Penrod took
                        Georgie's left arm, Sam took his right, and the three marched off
                        to the backyard in a companion-able way which made Mrs. Williams feel that
                        it had been an excellent thing to interfere a little in Georgie's
                        interest.
                    Experiencing the benevolent warmth that comes of assisting in a good action,
                        she ascended to an apartment upstairs, and, for a couple of hours, employed
                        herself with needle and thread in sartorial repairs on behalf of her husband
                        and Sam. Then she was interrupted by the advent of a coloured serving-maid.
                    "Miz Williams, I reckon the house goin' fall
                        down!" said this pessimist, arriving out of breath. "That
                        s'iety o' Mist' Sam's suttenly
                        tryin' to pull the roof down on ow haids!"
                    "The roof?" Mrs. Williams inquired mildly. "They
                        aren't in the attic, are they?"
                    "No'm; they in the celluh, but they reachin' fer  the roof! I
                        nev' did hear no sech a rumpus an' squawkin'
                        an' squawlin' an' fallin' an'
                        whoopin' an' whackin' an'
                        bangin'! They troop down by the outside celluh do',
                        n'enbang!they bus' loose, an' been goin'
                        on ev' since, wuss'n Bedlun! Ef they anything down celluh
                        ain' broke by this time, it cain' be only jes'
                        the foundashum, an' I bet that ain't
                        goin' stan' much longer! I'd gone down
                        an' stop 'em, but I'm 'fraid to.
                        Hones', Miz Williams, I'm 'fraid o' my
                        life go down there, all that Bedlun goin' on. I thought I come see
                        what you say."
                    Mrs. Williams laughed.
                    "We'll have to stand a little noise in the house sometimes,
                        Fanny, when there are boys. They're just playing, and a lot of
                        noise is usually a pretty safe sign."
                    "Yes'm," said Fanny. "It's
                        yo' house, Miz Williams, not mine. You want 'em tear it
                        down, I'm willin'."
                    She departed, and Mrs. Williams continued to sew. The days were growing
                        short, and at five o'clock she was obliged to put the work aside,
                        as her eyes did not permit her to continue it by artificial light.
                        Descending to the lower floor, she found the house silent, and when she
                        opened the front door  to see if the evening
                        paper had come, she beheld Sam, Penrod, and Maurice Levy standing near the
                        gate engaged in quiet conversation. Penrod and Maurice departed while she
                        was looking for the paper, and Sam came thoughtfully up the walk.
                    "Well, Sam," she said, "it wasn't such a
                        bad thing, after all, to show a little politeness to Georgie Bassett, was
                        it?"
                    Sam gave her a non-committal lookexpression of every kind had been wiped from
                        his countenance. He presented a blank surface.
                    "No'm," he said meekly.
                    "Everything was just a little pleasanter because you'd been
                        friendly, wasn't it?"
                    "Yes'm."
                    "Has Georgie gone home?"
                    "Yes'm."
                    "I hear you made enough noise in the cellarDid Georgie have a good
                        time?"
                    "Ma'am?"
                    "Did Georgie Bassett have a good time?"
                    "Well"Sam now had the air of a person trying to remember
                        details with absolute accuracy"well, he didn't say he did,
                        and he didn't say he didn't."
                    "Didn't he thank the boys?"
                    
                    "No'm."
                    "Didn't he even thank you?"
                    "No'm.'
                    "Why, that's queer," she said.
                        "He's always so polite. He seemed to be
                        having a good time, didn't he, Sam?"
                    "Ma'am?"
                    "Didn't Georgie seem to be enjoying himself?"
                    This question, apparently so simple, was not answered with promptness. Sam
                        looked at his mother in a puzzled way, and then he found it necessary to rub
                        each of his shins in turn with the palm of his right hand.
                    "I stumbled," he said apologetically. "I stumbled
                        on the cellar steps."
                    "Did you hurt yourself?" she asked quickly.
                    "No'm; but I guess maybe I better rub some arnica"
                    "I'll get it," she said. "Come up to your
                        father's bathroom, Sam. Does it hurt much?"
                    "No'm," he answered truthfully, "it
                        hardly hurts at all."
                    And having followed her to the bathroom, he insisted, with unusual
                        gentleness, that he be left to apply the arnica to the alleged injuries
                        himself.  He was so persuasive that she
                        yielded, and descended to the library, where she found her husband once more
                        at home after his day's work.
                    "Well?" he said. "Did Georgie show up, and were
                        they decent to him?"
                    "Oh, yes; it's all right. Sam and Penrod were good as gold.
                        I saw them being actually cordial to him."
                    "That's well," said Mr. Williams, settling into a
                        chair with his paper. "I was a little apprehensive, but I suppose I
                        was mistaken. I walked home, and just now, as I passed Mrs.
                        Bassett's, I saw Doctor Venny's car in front, and that
                        barber from the corner shop on Second Street was going in the door. I
                        couldn't think what a widow would need a barber and a doctor
                        forespecially at the same time. I couldn't think what
                        Georgie'd need such a combination for either, and then I got afraid
                        that maybe"
                    Mrs. Williams laughed. "Oh, no; it hasn't anything to do
                        with his having been over here. I'm sure they were very nice to
                        him."
                    "Well, I'm glad of that."
                    "Yes, indeed" Mrs. Williams began, when Fanny appeared,
                        summoning her to the telephone.
                    It is pathetically true that Mrs. Williams went to  the telephone humming a little song. She was detained at the
                        instrument not more than five minutes; then she made a plunging return into
                        the library, a blanched and stricken woman. She made strange, sinister
                        gestures at her husband.
                    He sprang up, miserably prophetic.
                    "Mrs. Bassett?"
                    "Go to the telephone," Mrs. Williams said hoarsely,
                        "She wants to talk to you, too. She can't talk muchshe's hysterical. She says they lured
                        Georgie into the cellar and had him beaten by negroes! That's not
                        all"
                    Mr. Williams was already on his way.
                    "You find Sam!" he commanded, over his shoulder.
                    Mrs. Williams stepped into the front hall.
                    "Sam!" she called, addressing the upper reaches of the
                        stairway. "Sam!"
                    Not even echo answered.
                    
                        "Sam!"
                    
                    A faint clearing of somebody's throat was heard behind her, a sound
                        so modest and unobtrusive it was no more than just audible, and, turning,
                        the mother beheld her son sitting upon the floor in the shadow of the stairs
                        and gazing meditatively at  the hatrack. His
                        manner indicated that he wished to produce the impression that he had been
                        sitting there, in this somewhat unusual place and occupation, for a
                        considerable time, but without overhearing anything that went on in the
                        library so close by.
                    "Sam," she cried, "what have you done?"
                    "WellI guess my legs are all right," he said gently.
                        "I got the arnica on, so probably they won't hurt any
                        m"
                    "Stand up!" she said.
                    "Ma'am?"
                    "March into the library!"
                    Sam marchedslow-time. In fact, no funeral march has been composed in a time
                        so slow as to suit this march of Sam's. One might have suspected
                        that he was in a state of apprehension.
                    Mr. Williams entered at one door as his son crossed the threshold of the
                        other, and this encounter was a piteous sight. After one glance at his
                        father's face, Sam turned desperately, as if to flee outright. But
                        Mrs. Williams stood in the doorway behind him.
                    "You come here!" And the father's voice was as
                        terrible as his face. "What did you do to Georgie
                            Bassett?"
                    
                    
                    "Nothin'," Sam gulped; "nothin'
                        at all."
                    "What!"
                    "We justwe just 'nishiated him."
                    Mr. Williams turned abruptly, walked to the fireplace, and there turned
                        again, facing the wretched Sam.
                    "That's all you did?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Georgie Bassett's mother has just told me over the
                        telephone," said Mr. Williams deliberately, "that you and
                        Penrod Schofield and Roderick Bitts and Maurice Levy lured
                            Georgie into the cellar and had him beaten by negroes!"
                    
                    At this, Sam was able to hold up his head a little and to summon a rather
                        feeble indignation.
                    "It ain't so," he declared. "We
                        didn't any such thing lower him into the cellar. We
                        weren't goin' near the cellar with him.
                        We never thought of goin' down cellar. He went
                        down there himself, first."
                    "So! I suppose he was running away from you, poor thing! Trying to
                        escape from you, wasn't he?"
                    "He wasn't," said Sam doggedly. "We
                        weren't chasin' himor anything at all."
                    "Then why did he go in the cellar?"
                    
                    "Well, he didn't exactly go in the
                        cellar," said Sam reluctantly.
                    "Well, how did he get in the cellar,
                        then?"
                    "Hehe fell in," said Sam.
                    "How did he fall in?"
                    "Well, the door was open, andwell, he kept walkin' around
                        there, and we hollered at him to keep away, but just then he kind ofwell,
                        the first I noticed was I couldn't see him, and so we went and looked down the steps, and he was
                        sitting down there on the bottom step and kind of shouting, and"
                    "See here!" Mr. Williams interrupted.
                        "You're going to make a clean breast of this whole affair
                        and take the consequences. You're going to tell it and tell it all. Do you understand that?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Then you tell me how Georgie Bassett fell down the cellar stepsand
                        tell me quick!"
                    "Hehe was blindfolded."
                    "Aha! Now we're getting at it. You begin
                        at the beginning and tell me just what you did to him from the time he got
                        here. Understand?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Go on, then!"
                    
                    "Well, I'm goin' to," Sam protested.
                        "We never hurt him at all. He wasn't even hurt when he
                        fell down cellar. There's a lot of mud down there, because the
                        cellar door leaks, and"
                    "Sam!" Mr. Williams's tone was deadly.
                        "Did you hear me tell you to begin at the beginning?"
                    Sam made a great effort and was able to obey.
                    "Well, we had everything ready for the 'nishiation before
                        lunch," he said. "We wanted it all to be nice, because you
                        said we had to have him, papa, and after lunch Penrod went to guard
                        himthat's a new part in the rixualand he brought him over, and we
                        took him out to the shack and blindfolded him, andwell, he got kind of mad
                        because we wanted him to lay down on his stummick and be tied up, and he
                        said he wouldn't, because the floor was a little bit wet in there
                        and he could feel it sort of squashy under his shoes, and he said his mother
                        didn't want him ever to get dirty and he just wouldn't do
                        it; and we all kept telling him he had to, or else how could there be any
                        'nishiation; and he kept gettin' madder and said he wanted
                        to have the 'nishiation outdoors where it wasn't wet and
                        he wasn't goin' to lay down on his stummick,
                        anyway." Sam paused for wind, then got under way again:  "Well, some of the boys were
                        tryin' to get him to lay down on his stummick, and he kind of fell
                        up against the door and it came open and he ran out in the yard. He was
                        tryin' to get the blindfold off his eyes, but he couldn't,
                        because it was a towel in a pretty hard knot; and he went tearin'
                        all around the backyard, and we didn't chase him, or anything. All
                        we did was just watch himand that's when he fell in the cellar.
                        Well, it didn't hurt him any. It didn't hurt him at all,
                        but he was muddier than what he would of been if he'd just had
                        sense enough to lay down in the shack. Well, so we thought, long as he was
                        down in the cellar anyway, we might as well have the rest of the
                        'nishiation down there. So we brought the things down andand
                        'nishiated himand that's all. That's every bit we
                        did to him."
                    "Yes," said Mr. Williams sardonically; "I see.
                        What were the details of the initiation?"
                    "Sir?"
                    "I want to know what else you did to him? What was the
                        initiation?"
                    "It'sit's secret," Sam murmured
                        piteously.
                    "Not any longer, I assure you! The society is a thing of the past
                        and you'll find your friend Penrod's  parents agree with me in that. Mrs. Bassett had already
                        telephoned them when she called us up. You go on with your story!"
                    Sam sighed deeply, and yet it may have been a consolation to know that his
                        present misery was not altogether without its counterpart. Through the
                        falling dusk his spirit may have crossed the intervening distance to catch a
                        glimpse of his friend suffering simultaneously and standing within the same
                        peril. And if Sam's spirit did thus behold Penrod in jeopardy, it
                        was a true vision.
                    "Go on!" said Mr. Williams.
                    "Well, there wasn't any fire in the furnace because
                        it's too warm yet, and we weren't goin' to do
                        anything'd hurt him, so we put him in
                        there"
                    "In the furnace?"
                    "It was cold," protested Sam. "There
                        hadn't been any fire there since last spring. Course we told him
                        there was fire in it. We had to do that," he
                        continued earnestly, "because that was part of the
                        'nishiation. We only kept him in it a little while and kind of
                        hammered on the outside a little and then we took him out and got him to lay
                        down on his stummick, because he was all muddy anyway, where he fell down
                        the cellar; and how could it  matter to anybody
                        that had any sense at all? Well, then we had the rixual, andandwhy, the
                        teeny little paddlin' he got wouldn't hurt a flea! It was
                        that little coloured boy lives in the alley did ithe isn't anyways
                        near half Georgie's sizebut Georgie got mad and
                        said he didn't want any ole nigger to paddle him. That's
                        what he said, and it was his own foolishness, because Verman won't
                        let anybody call him 'nigger,' and if
                        Georgie was goin' to call him that, he ought to had sense enough
                        not to do it when he was layin' down that way and Verman all ready
                        to be the paddler. And he needn't of been so mad at the rest of us,
                        either, because it took us about twenty minutes to get the paddle away from
                        Verman after that, and we had to lock Verman up in the laundry-room and not
                        let him out till it was all over. Well, and then things were kind of
                        spoiled, anyway; so we didn't do but just a little moreand
                        that's all."
                    "Go on! What was the 'just a little
                        more?'"
                    "Wellwe got him to swaller a little teeny bit of asafidity that
                        Penrod used to have to wear in a bag around his neck. It wasn't
                        enough to even make a person sneezeit wasn't much more'n a
                        half a spoonfulit wasn't hardly a quarter of a
                        spoonf"
                    
                    "Ha!" said Mr. Williams. "That accounts for the
                        doctor. What else?"
                    "Wellwewe had some paint left over from our flag, and we put just a
                        little teeny bit of it on his hair and"
                    "Ha!" said Mr. Williams. "That accounts for the
                        barber. What else?"
                    "That's all," said Sam, swallowing. "Then
                        he got mad and went home."
                    Mr. Williams walked to the door, and sternly motioned to the culprit to
                        precede him through it. But just before the pair passed from her sight, Mrs.
                        Williams gave way to an uncontrollable impulse.
                    "Sam," she asked, "what does
                        'In-Or-In' stand for?"
                    The unfortunate boy had begun to sniffle.
                    "Itit meansInnapenent Order of Infadelaty," he moanedand
                        plodded onward to his doom.
                    Not his alone: at that very moment Master Roderick Magsworth Bitts, Junior,
                        was suffering also, consequent upon telephoning on the part of Mrs. Bassett,
                        though Roderick's punishment was administered less on the ground of
                        Georgie's troubles and more on that of Roddy's having
                        affiliated with an order consisting so largely of Herman and Verman.  As for Maurice Levy, he was no whit less
                        unhappy. He fared as ill.
                    Simultaneously, two ex-members of the In-Or-In were finding their lot
                        fortunate. Something had prompted them to linger in the alley in the
                        vicinity of the shack, and it was to this fated edifice that Mr. Williams,
                        with demoniac justice, brought Sam for the deed he had in mind.
                    Herman and Verman listenedawe-strickento what went on within the shack. Then,
                        before it was over, they crept away and down the alley toward their own
                        home. This was directly across the alley from the Schofields'
                        stable, and they were horrified at the sounds which issued from the interior
                        of the stable store-room. It was the St. Bartholomew's Eve of that
                        neighbourhood.
                    "Man, man!" said Herman, shaking his head "Glad I
                        ain' no white boy!"
                    Verman seemed gloomily to assent.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    WHITEY
                    
                        PENROD and Sam made a gloomy discovery one morning in
                        mid-October. All the week had seen amiable breezes and fair skies until
                        Saturday, when, about breakfast-time, the dome of heaven filled solidly with
                        gray vapour and began to drip. The boys' discovery was that there
                        is no justice about the weather.
                    They sat in the carriage-house of the Schofields' empty stable; the
                        doors upon the alley were open, and Sam and Penrod stared torpidly at the
                        thin but implacable drizzle which was the more irritating because there was
                        barely enough of it to interfere with a number of things they had planned to
                        do.
                    "Yes; this is nice!" Sam said, in a tone
                        of plaintive sarcasm. "This is a perty way to
                        do!" (He was alluding to the personal spitefulness of the
                        elements.) "I'd like to know what's the sense of
                        itole sun pourin' down every day in the week when nobody  needs it, then cloud up and rain all
                        Saturday! My father said it's goin' to be a three
                        days' rain."
                    "Well, nobody with any sense cares if it rains Sunday and
                        Monday," said Penrod. "I wouldn't care if it
                        rained every Sunday as long I lived; but I just like to know what's
                        the reason it had to go and rain to-day. Got all the days o' the
                        week to choose from and goes and picks on Saturday. That's a fine
                        biz'nuss!"
                    "Well, in vacation" Sam began, but at a sound from a source
                        invisible to him he paused. "What's that?" he
                        said, somewhat startled.
                    It was a curious sound, loud and hollow and unhuman, yet it seemed to be a
                        cough. Both boys rose, and Penrod asked uneasily:
                    "Where'd that noise come from?"
                    "It's in the alley," said Sam.
                    Perhaps if the day had been bright, both of them would have stepped
                        immediately to the alley doors to investigate; but their actual procedure
                        was to move a little distance in the opposite direction. The strange cough
                        sounded again.
                    
                        "Say!" Penrod quavered. "What
                            is that?"
                    Then both boys uttered smothered exclamations and jumped, for the long, gaunt
                        head which appeared  in the doorway was
                        entirely unexpected. It was the cavernous and melancholy head of an
                        incredibly thin, old, whitish horse. This head waggled slowly from side to
                        side; the nostrils vibrated; the mouth opened, and the hollow cough sounded
                        again.
                    Recovering themselves, Penrod and Sam underwent the customary human reaction
                        from alarm to indignation.
                    "What you want, you ole horse, you?" Penrod shouted.
                        "Don't you come coughin' around me!"
                    
                    And Sam, seizing a stick, hurled it at the intruder.
                    "Get out o' here!" he roared.
                    The aged horse nervously withdrew his head, turned tail, and made a rickety
                        flight up the alley, while Sam and Penrod, perfectly obedient to inherited
                        impulse, ran out into the drizzle and uproariously pursued. They were but
                        automatons of instinct, meaning no evil. Certainly they did not know the
                        singular and pathetic history of the old horse who had wandered into the
                        alley and ventured to look through the open door.
                    This horse, about twice the age of either Penrod or Sam, had lived to find
                        himself in a unique position. He was nude, possessing neither harness nor
                        halter; all he had was a name, Whitey, and he would have  answered to it by a slight change of
                        expression if any one had thus properly addressed him. So forlorn was
                        Whitey's case, he was actually an independent horse; he had not
                        even an owner. For two days and a half he had been his own master.
                    Previous to that period he had been the property of one Abalene Morris, a
                        person of colour, who would have explained himself as engaged in the hauling
                        business. On the contrary, the hauling business was an insignificant side
                        line with Mr. Morris, for he had long ago given himself, as utterly as
                        fortune permitted, to that talent which, early in youth, he had recognized
                        as the greatest of all those surging in his bosom. In his waking thoughts
                        and in his dreams, in health and in sickness, Abalene Morris was the dashing
                        and emotional practitioner of an art probably more than Roman in antiquity.
                        Abalene was a crap-shooter. The hauling business was a disguise.
                    A concentration of events had brought it about that, at one and the same
                        time, Abalene, after a dazzling run of the dice, found the hauling business
                        an actual danger to the preservation of his liberty. He won seventeen
                        dollars and sixty cents, and within the hour found himself in trouble with
                        an officer of  the Humane Society on account
                        of an altercation with Whitey. Abalene had been offered four dollars for
                        Whitey some ten days earlier; wherefore he at once drove to the shop of the
                        junk-dealer who had made the offer and announced his acquiescence in the
                        sacrifice.
                    
                        "No, suh!" said the junk-dealer, with
                        emphasis "I awready done got me a good mule fer my
                        deliv'ry hoss, 'n'at ole Whitey hoss
                        ain' wuff no fo' dollah nohow! I 'uz a fool when
                        I talk 'bout th'owin' money roun' that
                        a-way. I know what you up to, Abalene.
                        Man come by here li'l bit ago tole me all 'bout white man
                        try to 'rest you, ovah on the --ynoo. Yessuh; he
                        say white man goin' to git you yit an'
                        th'ow' you in jail 'count o' Whitey.
                        White man tryin' to fine out who you is. He say,
                        nemmine, he'll know Whitey ag'in, even if he don'
                        know you! He say he ketch you by the hoss; so you come roun'
                        tryin' fix me up with Whitey so white man grab me, th'ow
                            me in 'at jail. G'on 'way
                        f'um hyuh, you Abalene! You cain' sell an' you
                        cain' give Whitey to no cullud man 'n 'is town.
                        You go an' drowned 'at ole hoss, 'cause you sutny
                        goin' to jail if you git ketched drivin' him."
                    The substance of this advice seemed good to 
                        Abalene, especially as the seventeen dollars and sixty cents in his pocket
                        lent sweet colours to life out of jail at this time. At dusk he led Whitey
                        to a broad common at the edge of town, and spoke to him finally.
                    "G'on 'bout you biz'nis," said
                        Abalene; "you ain' my hoss.
                        Don' look roun' at me, 'cause I
                        ain' got no 'quaintance wif you. I'm a man
                        o' money, an' I got my own frien's; I'm
                        a-lookin' fer bigger cities, hoss. You got you'
                        biz'nis an' I got mine. Mista' Hoss,
                        good-night!"
                    Whitey found a little frosted grass upon the common and remained there all
                        night. In the morning he sought the shed where Abalene had kept him, but
                        that was across the large and busy town, and Whitey was hopelessly lost. He
                        had but one eye, a feeble one, and his legs were not to be depended upon;
                        but he managed to cover a great deal of ground, to have many painful little
                        adventures, and to get monstrously hungry and thirsty before he happened to
                        look in upon Penrod and Sam.
                    When the two boys chased him up the alley they had no intention to cause
                        pain; they had no intention at all. They were no more cruel than Duke,
                        Penrod's little old dog, who followed his own instincts, and,  making his appearance hastily through a hole
                        in the back fence, joined the pursuit with sound and fury. A boy will nearly
                        always run after anything that is running, and his first impulse is to throw
                        a stone at it. This is a survival of primeval man, who must take every
                        chance to get his dinner. So, when Penrod and Sam drove the hapless Whitey
                        up the alley, they were really responding to an impulse thousands and
                        thousands of years oldan impulse founded upon the primordial observation
                        that whatever runs is likely to prove edible. Penrod and Sam were not
                        "bad"; they were never that. They were something which was
                        not their fault; they were historic.
                    At the next corner Whitey turned to the right into the cross-street; thence,
                        turning to the right again and still warmly pursued, he zigzagged down a
                        main thoroughfare until he reached another cross-street, which ran alongside
                        the Schofields' yard and brought him to the foot of the alley he
                        had left behind in his flight. He entered the alley, and there his dim eye
                        fell upon the open door he had previously investigated. No memory of it
                        remained, but the place had a look associated in his mind with hay, and as
                        Sam and Penrod turned the corner of the alley in panting yet still
                        vociferous  pursuit, Whitey stumbled up the
                        inclined platform before the open doors, staggered thunderously across the
                        carriage-house and through another open door into a stall, an apartment
                        vacant since the occupancy of Mr. Schofield's last horse, now
                        several years deceased.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    SALVAGE
                    
                        THE two boys shrieked with excitement as they beheld the
                        coincidence of this strange return. They burst into the stable, making
                        almost as much noise as Duke, who had become frantic at the invasion. Sam
                        laid hands upon a rake.
                    "You get out o' there, you ole horse, you!" he
                        bellowed. "I ain't afraid to drive him out. I"
                    
                        "Wait a minute!" shouted Penrod.
                        "Wait till I"
                    Sam was manfully preparing to enter the stall.
                    "You hold the doors open," he commanded,
                        "so's they won't blow shut and keep him in here.
                        I'm goin' to hit him with"
                    "Quee-yut!" Penrod shouted, grasping the
                        handle of the rake so that Sam could not use it. "Wait a minute, can't you?" He turned with
                        ferocious voice and gestures upon Duke. "Duke!" And Duke, in spite of his excitement,
                        was so impressed that he  prostrated himself
                        in silence, and then unobtrusively withdrew from the stable. Penrod ran to
                        the alley doors and closed them.
                    "My gracious!" Sam protested. "What you
                        goin' to do?"
                    "I'm goin' to keep this horse," said
                        Penrod, whose face showed the strain of a great idea.
                    "What for?"
                    
                    "For the reward," said Penrod simply.
                    Sam sat down in the wheelbarrow and stared at his friend almost with awe.
                    "My gracious," he said, "I never thought
                        o' that! Howhow much do you think we'll get,
                        Penrod?"
                    Sam's thus admitting himself to a full partnership in the enterprise
                        met no objection from Penrod, who was absorbed in the contemplation of
                        Whitey.
                    "Well," he said judicially, "we might get more and
                        we might get less."
                    Sam rose and joined his friend in the doorway opening upon the two stalls.
                        Whitey had prempted the nearer, and was hungrily nuzzling the old frayed
                        hollows in the manger.
                    "Maybe a hundred dollarsor sumpthing?" Sam asked in a low
                        voice.
                    Penrod maintained his composure and repeated 
                        the new-found expression which had sounded well to him a moment before. He
                        recognized it as a symbol of the non-committal attitude that makes people
                        looked up to. "Well"he made it slow, and
                        frowned"we might get more and we might get less."
                    "More'n a hundred dollars?" Sam
                        gasped.
                    "Well," said Penrod, "we might get more and we
                        might get less." This time, however, he felt the need of adding
                        something. He put a question in an indulgent tone, as though he were
                        inquiring, not to add to his own information but to discover the extent of
                        Sam's. "How much do you think horses are worth,
                        anyway?"
                    "I don't know," said Sam frankly, and,
                        unconsciously, he added, "They might be more and they might be
                        less."
                    "Well, when our ole horse died," said Penrod,
                        "papa said he wouldn't taken five hundred dollars for him.
                        That's how much horses are worth!"
                    "My gracious!" Sam exclaimed. Then he had a practical
                        afterthought. "But maybe he was a better horse than
                        this'n. What colour was he?"
                    "He was bay. Looky here, Sam"and now Penrod's
                        manner changed from the superior to the 
                        eager"you look what kind of horses they have in a circus, and you
                        bet a circus has the best horses, don't it? Well,
                        what kind of horses do they have in a circus? They have some black and white
                        ones, but the best they have are white all over. Well, what kind of a horse
                        is this we got here? He's perty near white right now, and I bet if
                        we washed him off and got him fixed up nice he would be
                        white. Well, a bay horse is worth five hundred dollars, because
                        that's what papa said, and this horse"
                    Sam interrupted rather timidly.
                    "Hehe's awful bony, Penrod. You don't guess
                        that'd make any"
                    Penrod laughed contemptuously.
                    "Bony! All he needs is a little food and he'll fill right
                        up and look good as ever. You don't know much about horses, Sam, I
                        expect. Why, our ole horse"
                    "Do you expect he's hungry now?" asked Sam,
                        staring at Whitey.
                    "Let's try him," said Penrod. "Horses
                        like hay and oats the best, but they'll eat most
                        anything."
                    "I guess they will. He's tryin' to eat that manger
                        up right now, and I bet it ain't good for him."
                    "Come on," said Penrod, closing the door that  gave entrance to the stalls. "We got
                        to get this horse some drinkin'-water and some good food."
                    They tried Whitey's appetite first with an autumnal branch which
                        they wrenched from a hardy maple in the yard. They had seen horses nibble
                        leaves, and they expected Whitey to nibble the leaves of this branch, but
                        his ravenous condition did not allow him time for cool discriminations. Sam
                        poked the branch at him from the passageway, and Whitey, after one backward
                        movement of alarm, seized it venomously.
                    "Here! You stop that!" Sam shouted. "You stop
                        that, you ole horse, you!"
                    "What's the matter?" called Penrod from the
                        hydrant, where he was filling a bucket. "What's he
                        doin' now?"
                    "Doin'! He's eatin' the wood part, too!
                        He's chewin' up sticks as big as baseball bats!
                        He's crazy!"
                    Penrod rushed to see this sight, and stood aghast.
                    "Take it away from him, Sam!" he commanded sharply.
                    "Go on, take it away from him yourself!" was the prompt
                        retort of his comrade.
                    "You had no biz'nuss to give it to him," said  Penrod. "Anybody with any sense
                        ought to know it'd make him sick. What'd you want to go
                        and give it to him for?"
                    "Well, you didn't say not to."
                    "Well, what if I didn't? I never said I did, did I? You go
                        on in that stall and take it away from him."
                    
                        "Yes, I will!" Sam returned bitterly.
                        Then, as Whitey had dragged the remains of the branch from the manger to the
                        floor of the stall, Sam scrambled to the top of the manger and looked over.
                        "There ain't much left to take away!
                        He's swallered it all except some splinters. Better give him the
                        water to try and wash it down with." And, as Penrod complied,
                        "My gracious, look at that horse drink!"
                    
                    They gave Whitey four buckets of water, and then debated the question of
                        nourishment. Obviously, this horse could not be trusted with branches, and,
                        after getting their knees black and their backs sodden, they gave up trying
                        to pull enough grass to sustain him. Then Penrod remembered that horses like
                        apples, both "cooking-apples" and
                        "eating-apples," and Sam mentioned the fact that every
                        autumn his father received a barrel of "cooking-apples"
                        from a cousin who owned a farm. That barrel was in the  Williams' cellar now, and the cellar was
                        providentially supplied with "outside doors," so that it
                        could be visited without going through the house. Sam and Penrod set forth
                        for the cellar.
                    They returned to the stable bulging, and, after a discussion of
                        Whitey's digestion (Sam claiming that eating the core and seeds, as
                        Whitey did, would grow trees in his inside), they went back to the cellar
                        for supplies againand again. They made six trips, carrying each time a
                        capacity cargo of apples, and still Whitey ate in a famished manner. They
                        were afraid to take more apples from the barrel, which began to show
                        conspicuously the result of their raids, wherefore Penrod made an
                        unostentatious visit to the cellar of his own house. From the inside he
                        opened a window and passed vegetables out to Sam, who placed them in a
                        bucket and carried them hurriedly to the stable, while Penrod returned in a
                        casual manner through the house. Of his sang-froid under a
                        great strain it is sufficient to relate that, in the kitchen, he said
                        suddenly to Della, the cook, "Oh, look behind you!" and by
                        the time Della discovered that there was nothing unusual behind her, Penrod
                        was gone, and a loaf of bread from the kitchen table was gone with him.
                    
                    Whitey now ate nine turnips, two heads of lettuce, one cabbage, eleven raw
                        potatoes, and the loaf of bread. He ate the loaf of bread last and he was a
                        long time about it; so the boys came to a not unreasonable conclusion.
                    "Well, sir, I guess we got him filled up at last!" said
                        Penrod. "I bet he wouldn't eat a saucer of ice-cream now,
                        if we'd give it to him!"
                    "He looks better to me," said Sam, staring critically at
                        Whitey. "I think he's kind of begun to fill out some. I
                        expect he must like us, Penrod; we been doin' a good deal for this
                        horse."
                    "Well, we got to keep it up," Penrod insisted rather
                        pompously. "Long as I got charge o' this
                        horse, he's goin' to get good treatment."
                    "What we better do now, Penrod?"
                    Penrod took on the outward signs of deep thought.
                    "Well, there's plenty to do, all right. I
                        got to think."
                    Sam made several suggestions, which Penrodmaintaining his air of
                        preoccupationdismissed with mere gestures.
                    "Oh, I know!" Sam cried finally.
                        "We ought to wash him so's he'll look
                        whiter'n what he does now. We can turn the hose on him acrost the
                        manger."
                    
                    "No; not yet, said Penrod. "It's too soon after
                        his meal. You ought to know that yourself. What we got to do is to make up a
                        bed for himif he wants to lay down or anything."
                    "Make up a what for him?" Sam echoed, dum-founded.
                        "What you talkin' about? How can"
                    "Sawdust," said Penrod. "That's the way
                        the horse we used to have used to have it. We'll make this
                        horse's bed in the other stall, and then he can go in there and lay
                        down whenever he wants to."
                    "How we goin' to do it?"
                    "Look, Sam; there's the hole into the sawdust-box! All you
                        got to do is walk in there with the shovel, stick the shovel in the hole
                        till it gets full of sawdust, and then sprinkle it around on the empty
                        stall."
                    "All I got to do!" Sam cried.
                        "What are you goin' to do?"
                    "I'm goin' to be right here," Penrod
                        answered reassuringly. "He won't kick or anything, and it
                        isn't goin' to take you half a second to slip around
                        behind him to the other stall."
                    "What makes you think he won't kick?"
                    "Well, I know he won't, and, besides, you
                        could hit him with the shovel if he tried to. Anyhow, I'll be right
                        here, won't I?"
                    
                    "I don't care where you are," Sam said earnestly.
                        "What difference would that make if he ki"
                    "Why, you were goin' right in the stall," Penrod
                        reminded him. "When he first came in, you were goin' to
                        take the rake and"
                    "I don't care if I was," Sam declared. "I
                        was excited then."
                    "Well, you can get excited now, can't you?" his
                        friend urged. "You can just as easy get"
                    He was interrupted by a shout from Sam, who was keeping his eye upon Whitey
                        throughout the discussion.
                    "Look! Looky there!" And undoubtedly renewing his
                        excitement, Sam pointed at the long, gaunt head beyond the manger. It was
                        disappearing from view. "Look!" Sam shouted.
                        "He's layin' down!"
                    "Well, then," said Penrod, "I guess he's
                        goin' to take a nap. If he wants to lay down without
                        waitin' for us to get the sawdust fixed for him, that's
                        his lookout, not ours."
                    On the contrary, Sam perceived a favourable opportunity for action.
                    "I just as soon go and make his bed up while he's
                        layin' down," he volunteered. "You climb up on
                             the manger and watch him, Penrod, and
                        I'll sneak in the other stall and fix it all up nice for him,
                        so's he can go in there any time when he wakes up, and lay down
                        again, or anything; and if he starts to get up, you holler and I'll
                        jump out over the other manger."
                    Accordingly, Penrod established himself in a position to observe the
                        recumbent figure. Whitey's breathing was rather laboured but
                        regular, and, as Sam remarked, he looked "better," even in
                        his slumber. It is not to be doubted that, although Whitey was suffering
                        from a light attack of colic, his feelings were in the main those of
                        contentment. After trouble, he was solaced; after exposure, he was
                        sheltered; after hunger and thirst, he was fed and watered. He slept.
                    The noon whistles blew before Sam's task was finished, but by the
                        time he departed for lunch there was made a bed of such quality that Whitey
                        must needs have been a born faultfinder if he complained of it. The friends
                        parted, each urging the other to be prompt in returning, but Penrod got into
                        threatening difficulties as soon as he entered the house.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    REWARD OF MERIT
                    
                        PENROD," said his mother, "what did you
                        do with that loaf of bread Della says you took from the table?"
                    "Ma'am? What loaf o'
                        bread?"
                    "I believe I can't let you go outdoors this
                        afternoon," Mrs. Schofield said severely. "If you were
                        hungry, you know perfectly well all you had to do was to"
                    "But I wasn't hungry; I"
                    "You can explain later," said Mrs. Schofield.
                        "You'll have all afternoon."
                    Penrod's heart grew cold.
                    "I can't stay in," he protested.
                        "I've asked Sam Williams to come over."
                    "I'll telephone Mrs. Williams."
                    "Mamma!" Penrod's voice became agonized.
                        "I had to give that bread to ato a poor ole man.
                        He was starving and so were his children and his wife. They were all just
                            starvingand they couldn't  wait while I took time to come and ask you,
                        mamma. I got to go outdoors this afternoon. I got to! Sam's"
                    She relented.
                    In the carriage-house, half an hour later, Penrod gave an account of the
                        episode.
                    "Where'd we been, I'd just like to know,"
                        he concluded, "if I hadn't got out here this
                        afternoon?"
                    "Well, I guess I could managed him all right," said Sam.
                        "I was in the passageway, a minute ago, takin' a look at
                        him. He's standin' up again. I expect he wants more to
                        eat."
                    "Well, we got to fix about that," said Penrod.
                        "But what I meanif I'd had to stay in the house, where
                        would we been about the most important thing in the whole
                        biz'nuss?"
                    "What you talkin' about?"
                    "Well, why can't you wait till I tell you?"
                        Penrod's tone had become peevish. For that matter, so had
                        Sam's; they were developing one of the little differences, or
                        quarrels, that composed the very texture of their friendship.
                    "Well, why don't you tell me, then?"
                    "Well, how can I?" Penrod demanded. "You keep
                        talkin' every minute."
                    
                    "I'm not talkin' now, am
                        I?" Sam protested. "You can tell me now,
                        can't you? I'm not talk"
                    "You are, too!" shouted Penrod. "You talk all the
                        time! You"
                    He was interrupted by Whitey's peculiar cough. Both boys jumped and
                        forgot their argument.
                    "He means he wants some more to eat, I bet," said Sam.
                    "Well, if he does, he's got to wait," Penrod
                        declared. "We got to get the most important thing of all fixed up
                        first."
                    "What's that, Penrod?"
                    "The reward," said Penrod mildly. "That's
                        what I was tryin' to tell you about, Sam, if you'd ever
                        give me half a chance."
                    "Well, I did give you a chance. I kept tellin' you to tell me, but"
                    "You never! You kept sayin'"
                    They renewed this discussion, protracting it indefinitely; but as each
                        persisted in clinging to his own interpretation of the facts, the question
                        still remains unsettled. It was abandoned, or rather, it merged into another
                        during the later stages of the debate, this other being concerned with which
                        of the debaters had the least "sense." Each made the  plain statement that if he were more
                        deficient than his opponent in that regard, self-destruction would be his
                        only refuge. Each declared that he would "rather die than be talked
                        to death"; and then, as the two approached a point bluntly
                        recriminative, Whitey coughed again, whereupon they were miraculously
                        silent, and went into the passageway in a perfectly amiable manner.
                    "I got to have a good look at him, for once," said Penrod,
                        as he stared frowningly at Whitey. "We got to fix up about that
                        reward."
                    "I want to take a good ole look at him myself," said Sam.
                    After supplying Whitey with another bucket of water, they returned to the
                        carriage-house and seated themselves thoughtfully. In truth, they were
                        something a shade more than thoughtful; the adventure to which they had
                        committed themselves was beginning to be a little overpowering. If Whitey
                        had been a dog, a goat, a fowl, or even a stray calf, they would have felt
                        equal to him; but now that the earlier glow of their wild daring had
                        disappeared, vague apprehensions stirred. Their "good
                        look" at Whitey had not reassured themhe seemed large, Gothic, and
                        unusual.
                    
                    Whisperings within them began to urge that for boys to undertake an
                        enterprise connected with so huge an animal as an actual horse was perilous.
                        Beneath the surface of their musings, dim but ominous prophecies moved; both
                        boys began to have the feeling that, somehow, this affair was going to get
                        beyond them and that they would be in heavy trouble before it was overthey
                        knew not why. They knew why no more than they knew why they felt it
                        imperative to keep the fact of Whitey's presence in the stable a
                        secret from their respective families, but they did begin to realize that
                        keeping a secret of that size was going to be attended with some difficulty.
                        In brief, their sensations were becoming comparable to those of the man who
                        stole a house.
                    Nevertheless, after a short period given to unspoken misgivings, they
                        returned to the subject of the reward. The money-value of bay horses, as
                        compared to white, was again discussed, and each announced his certainty
                        that nothing less than "a good ole hunderd dollars" would
                        be offered for the return of Whitey.
                    But immediately after so speaking they fell into another silence, due to
                        sinking feelings. They had 
                        
                            FIG I
                        
                        
                            FIG II
                        
                         spoken loudly and confidently, and yet they
                        knew, somehow, that such things were not to be. According to their
                        knowledge, it was perfectly reason able to suppose that they would receive
                        this fortune, but they frightened themselves in speaking of it; they knew
                        that they could not have a hundred dollars for their own.
                        An oppression, as from something awful and criminal, descended upon them at
                        intervals.
                    Presently, however, they were warmed to a little cheerfulness again by
                        Penrod's suggestion that they should put a notice in the paper.
                        Neither of them had the slightest idea how to get it there, but such details
                        as that were beyond the horizon; they occupied themselves with the question
                        of what their advertisement ought to "say." Finding that
                        they differed irreconcilably, Penrod went to a cache of his in the
                        sawdust-box and brought two pencils and a supply of paper. He gave one of
                        the pencils and several sheets to Sam; then both boys bent themselves in
                        silence to the labour of practical composition. Penrod produced the briefer
                        paragraph. (See Fig. I.) Sam's was more ample. (See Fig. II.)
                    Neither Sam nor Penrod showed any interest in what the other had written, but
                        both felt that something  praiseworthy had
                        been accomplished. Penrod exhaled a sign, as of relief, and, in a manner he
                        had observed his father use sometimes, he said:
                    "Thank goodness, that's off my mind,
                        anyway!"
                    "What we goin' do next, Penrod?" Sam asked
                        deferentially, the borrowed manner having some effect upon him.
                    "I don't know what you're
                        goin' to do," Penrod returned, picking up the old cigarbox
                        which had contained the paper and pencils. "I'm goin' to put mine in here,
                        so's it'll come in handy when I haf to get at
                        it."
                    "Well, I guess I'll keep mine there, too," said
                        Sam. Thereupon he deposited his scribbled slip beside Penrod's in
                        the cigarbox, and the box was solemnly returned to the secret place whence
                        it had been taken.
                    "There, that's 'tended
                        to!" said Sam, and, unconsciously imitating his friend's
                        imitation, he gave forth audibly a breath of satisfaction and relief. Both
                        boys felt that the financial side of their great affair had been
                        conscientiously looked to, that the question of the reward was settled, and
                        that everything was proceeding in a businesslike manner. Therefore, they
                        were able to turn their attention to another matter.
                    
                    This was the question of Whitey's next meal. After their exploits of
                        the morning, and the consequent imperilment of Penrod, they decided that
                        nothing more was to be done in apples, vegetables, or bread; it was evident
                        that Whitey must be fed from the bosom of nature.
                    "We couldn't pull enough o' that frostbit ole
                        grass in the yard to feed him," Penrod said gloomily. "We
                        could work a week and not get enough to make him swaller more'n
                        about twice. All we got this morning, he blew most of it away. He'd
                        try to scoop it in toward his teeth with his lip, and then he'd haf
                        to kind of blow out his breath, and after that all the grass that'd
                        be left was just some wet pieces stickin' to the outsides of his
                        face. Well, and you know how he acted about that maple branch. We
                        can't trust him with branches."
                    Sam jumped up.
                    
                        "I know!" he cried.
                        "There's lots of leaves left on the branches. We can give
                        them to him."
                    "I just said"
                    "I don't mean the branches," Sam explained.
                        "We'll leave the branches on the trees, but just pull the
                        leaves off the branches and put 'em in the bucket and feed
                        'em to him out the bucket."
                    
                    Penrod thought this plan worth trying, and for three-quarters of an hour the
                        two boys were busy with the lower branches of various trees in the yard.
                        Thus they managed to supply Whitey with a fair quantity of wet leaves, which
                        he ate in a perfunctory way, displaying little of his earlier enthusiasm.
                        And the work of his purveyors might have been more tedious if it had been
                        less damp, for a boy is seldom bored by anything that involves his
                        staying-out in the rain without protection. The drizzle had thickened; the
                        leaves were heavy with water, and at every jerk the branches sent fat drops
                        over the two collectors. They attained a noteworthy state of sogginess.
                    Finally, they were brought to the attention of the authorities indoors, and
                        Della appeared upon the back porch.
                    "Musther Penrod," she called, "y'r mamma
                        says ye'll c'm in the house this minute an'
                        change y'r shoes an' stockin's an'
                        everythun' else ye got on! D'ye hear me?"
                    Penrod, taken by surprise and unpleasantly alarmed, darted away from the tree
                        he was depleting and ran for the stable.
                    "You tell her I'm dry as toast!" he shouted over
                        his shoulder.
                    
                    Della withdrew, wearing the air of a person gratuitously insulted; and a
                        moment later she issued from the kitchen, carrying an umbrella. She opened
                        it and walked resolutely to the stable.
                    "She says I'm to bring ye in the house," said
                        Della, "an' I'm goin' to bring
                        ye!"
                    Sam had joined Penrod in the carriage-house, and, with the beginnings of an
                        unnamed terror, the two beheld this grim advance. But they did not stay for
                        its culmination. Without a word to each other they hurriedly tiptoed up the
                        stairs to the gloomy loft, and there they paused, listening.
                    They heard Della's steps upon the carriage-house floor.
                    "Ah, there's plenty places t'hide in,"
                        they heard her say; "but I'll show ye! She tole me to
                        bring ye, and I'm"
                    She was interrupted by a peculiar soundloud, chilling, dismal, and
                        unmistakably not of human origin. The boys knew it for Whitey's
                        cough, but Della had not their experience. A smothered shriek reached their
                        ears; there was a scurrying noise, and then, with horror, they heard
                        Della's footsteps in the passageway that ran by Whitey's
                        manger. Immediately there came a louder shriek, and  even in the anguish of knowing their secret discovered, they
                        were shocked to hear distinctly the words, "O Lard in
                        hivvin!" in the well-known voice of Della. She shrieked again, and
                        they heard the rush of her footfalls across the carriage-house floor. Wild
                        words came from the outer air, and the kitchen door slammed violently. It
                        was all over. She had gone to "tell."
                    Penrod and Sam plunged down the stairs and out of the stable. They climbed
                        the back fence and fled up the alley. They turned into Sam's yard,
                        and, without consultation, headed for the cellar doors, nor paused till they
                        found themselves in the farthest, darkest, and gloomiest recess of the
                        cellar. There, perspiring, stricken with fear, they sank down upon the
                        earthen floor, with their moist backs against the stone wall.
                    Thus with boys. The vague apprehensions that had been creeping upon Penrod
                        and Sam all afternoon had become monstrous; the unknown was before them. How
                        great their crime would turn out to be (now that it was in the hands of
                        grown people), they did not know, but, since it concerned a horse, it would
                        undoubtedly be considered of terrible dimensions.
                    
                    Their plans for a reward, and all the things that had seemed both innocent
                        and practical in the morning, now staggered their minds as manifestations of
                        criminal folly. A new and terrible light seemed to play upon the
                        day's exploits; they had chased a horse belonging to strangers, and
                        it would be said that they deliberately drove him into the stable and there
                        concealed him. They had, in truth, virtually stolen him, and they had stolen
                        food for him. The waning light through the small window above them warned
                        Penrod that his inroads upon the vegetables in his own cellar must soon be
                        discovered. Della, that Nemesis, would seek them in order to prepare them
                        for dinner, and she would find them not. But she would recall his excursion
                        to the cellar, for she had seen him when he came up; and also the truth
                        would be known concerning the loaf of bread. Altogether, Penrod felt that
                        his case was worse than Sam'suntil Sam offered a suggestion which
                        roused such horrible possibilities concerning the principal item of their
                        offense that all thought of the smaller indictments disappeared.
                    "Listen, Penrod," Sam quavered: "Whatwhat if
                        thatwhat if that ole horse maybe b'longed to apoliceman!"
                        Sam's imagination was not of the 
                        comforting kind. "What'd theydo to us, Penrod, if it
                        turned out he was some policeman's horse?"
                    Penrod was able only to shake his head. He did not reply in words, but both
                        boys thenceforth considered it almost inevitable that Whitey had belonged to a policeman, and in their sense of so ultimate a
                        disaster, they ceased for a time to brood upon what their parents would
                        probably do to them The penalty for stealing a policeman's horse
                        would be only a step short of capital, they were sure. They would not be
                        hanged; but vague, looming sketches of something called the penitentiary
                        began to flicker before them.
                    It grew darker in the cellar, so that finally they could not see each other.
                    "I guess they're huntin' for us by now,"
                        Sam said huskily. "I don'tI don't like it much
                        down here, Penrod."
                    Penrod's hoarse whisper came from the profound gloom:
                    "Well, who ever said you did?"
                    "Well" Sam paused; then he said plaintively, "I
                        wish we'd never seen that dern ole
                        horse."
                    "It was every bit his fault," said Penrod. "We didn't do anything. If he hadn't
                        come stickin' his  ole head in our
                        stable, it'd never happened at all. Ole fool!" He rose.
                        "I'm goin' to get out of here; I guess
                        I've stood about enough for one day."
                    "Wherewhere you goin', Penrod? You aren't
                        goin' home, are you?"
                    "No; I'm not! What you take me for? You think I'm
                        crazy?"
                    "Well, where can we go?"
                    How far Penrod's desperation actually would have
                        -ed him is doubtful, but he made this statement:
                    "I don't know where you're
                        goin', but I'm goin' to walk
                        straight out in the country till I come to a farmhouse and say my
                        name's George and live there!"
                    "I'll do it, too," Sam whispered eagerly.
                        "I'll say my name's Henry."
                    "Well, we better get started," said the executive Penrod.
                        "We got to get away from here, anyway."
                    But when they came to ascend the steps leading to the "outside
                        doors," they found that those doors had been closed and locked for
                        the night.
                    "It's no use," Sam lamented, "and we
                        can't bust 'em, cause I tried to, once before. Fanny
                        always locks 'em about five o'clockI forgot. We got to go
                        up the stairway and try to sneak out through the house."
                    
                    They tiptoed back, and up the inner stairs. They paused at the top, then
                        breathlessly stepped out into a hall which was entirely dark. Sam touched
                        Penrod's sleeve in warning, and bent to listen at a door.
                    Immediately that door opened, revealing the bright library, where sat
                        Penrod's mother and Sam's father.
                    It was Sam's mother who had opened the door.
                    "Come into the library, boys," she said. "Mrs.
                        Schofield is just telling us about it."
                    And as the two comrades moved dumbly into the lighted room, Penrod's
                        mother rose, and, taking him by the shoulder, urged him close to the fire.
                    "You stand there and try to dry off a little, while I finish telling
                        Mr. and Mrs. Williams about you and Sam," she said.
                        "You'd better make Sam keep near the fire, too, Mrs.
                        Williams, because they both got wringing wet. Think of their running off
                        just when most people would have wanted to stay! Well, I'll go on
                        with the story, then. Della told me all about it, and what the cook next
                        door said she'd seen, how they'd been
                        trying to pull grass and leaves for the poor old thing all dayand all about
                        the apples they carried from your cellar, and getting wet
                        and working in the rain as hard as they couldand  they'd given him a loaf of bread! Shame on you,
                        Penrod!" She paused to laugh, but there was a little moisture round
                        her eyes, even before she laughed. "And they'd fed him on
                        potatoes and lettuce and cabbage and turnips out of our
                        cellar! And I wish you'd see the sawdust bed they made for him!
                        Well, when I'd telephoned, and the Humane Society man got there, he
                        said it was the most touching thing he ever knew. It seems he knew this horse, and had been looking for him. He said ninety-nine
                        boys out of a hundred would have chased the poor old thing away, and he was
                        going to see to it that this case didn't go unnoticed, because the
                        local branch of the society gives little silver medals for special acts like
                        this. And the last thing he said before he led the poor old horse away was
                        that he was sure Penrod and Sam each would be awarded one at the meeting of
                        the society next Thursday night."
                    . . . On the following Saturday morning a yodel sounded from the sunny
                        sidewalk in front of the Schofields' house, and Penrod, issuing
                        forth, beheld the familiar figure of Samuel Williams in waiting.
                    Upon Sam's breast there glittered a round bit of silver suspended by
                        a white ribbon from a bar of  the same metal.
                        Upon the breast of Penrod was a decoration precisely similar.
                    "'Lo, Penrod," said Sam. "What you
                        goin' to do?"
                    "Nothin'."
                    "I got mine on," said Sam.
                    "I have, too," said Penrod. "I wouldn't
                        take a hunderd dollars for mine."
                    "I wouldn't take two hunderd for mine," said Sam.
                    Each glanced pleasantly at the other's medal. They faced each other
                        without shame. Neither had the slightest sense of hypocrisy either in
                        himself or in his comrade. On the contrary!
                    Penrod's eyes went from Sam's medal back to his own; thence
                        they wandered, with perhaps a little disappointment, to the lifeless street
                        and to the empty yards and spectatorless windows of the neighbourhood. Then
                        he looked southward toward the busy heart of the town, where multitudes
                        were.
                    "Let's go down and see what time it is by the court-house
                        clock," said Penrod.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    CONSCIENCE
                    
                        MRS. SCHOFIELD had been away for three days, visiting her
                        sister in Dayton, Illinois, and on the train, coming back, she fell into a
                        reverie. Little dramas of memory were renacted in her pensive mind, and
                        through all of them moved the figure of Penrod as a principal figure, or
                        star. These little dramas did not present Penrod as he really was, much less
                        did they glow with the uncertain but glamorous light in which Penrod saw
                        himself. No; Mrs. Schofield had indulged herself in absence from her family
                        merely for her own pleasure, and now that she was homeward bound, her
                        conscience was asserting itself; the fact that she had enjoyed her visit
                        began to take on the aspect of a crime.
                    She had heard from her family only once during the three daysthe message,
                        "All well don't worry enjoy yourself,"
                        telegraphed by Mr. Schofield, and she had followed his suggestions to a
                        reasonable  extent. Of course she had
                        worriedbut only at times; wherefore she now suffered more and more poignant
                        pangs of shame because she had not worried constantly. Naturally, the figure
                        of Penrod, in her railway reverie, was that of an invalid.
                    She recalled all the illnesses of his babyhood and all those of his boyhood.
                        She reconstructed scene after scene, with the hero always prostrate and the
                        family physician opening the black case of phials. She emphatically renewed
                        her recollection of accidental misfortunes to the body of Penrod Schofield,
                        omitting neither the considerable nor the inconsiderable, forgetting no
                        strain, sprain, cut, bruise, or dislocation of which she had knowledge. And,
                        running this film in a sequence unrelieved by brighter interludes, she
                        produced a biographical picture of such consistent and unremittent gloom
                        that Penrod's past appeared to justify disturbing thoughts about
                        his present and future.
                    She became less and less at ease, reproaching herself for having gone away,
                        wondering how she had brought herself to do such a crazy thing, for it
                        seemed to her that the members of her family were almost helpless without
                        her guidance; they were apt to do anythinganything at allor to catch
                        anything.  The more she thought about her
                        having left these irresponsible harebrains unprotected and undirected for
                        three days, the less she was able to account for her action. It seemed to
                        her that she must have been a little flighty, but, shaking her head grimly,
                        she decided that flightiness was not a good excuse. And she made up her mind
                        that if, upon her arrival, she found poor little neglected Penrod and
                        Margaret and Mr. Schofield spared to her, safe and sound, she would make up
                        to themespecially to Penrodfor all her lack of care in the past, and for
                        this present wild folly of spending three whole days and nights with her
                        sister, far away in Dayton, Illinois. Consequently, when Mrs. Schofield
                        descended from that train, she wore the hurried but determined expression
                        which was always the effect upon her of a guilty conscience.
                    "You're sure Penrod is well
                        now?" she repeated, after Mr. Schofield had seated himself at her
                        side in a vehicle known to its driver as a "deepoe hack."
                    "'Well now?'" he said.
                        "He's been well all the time. I've told you twice
                        that he's all right."
                    "Men can't always see." She shook her head
                        impatiently. "I haven't been a bit sure he was well  lately. I don't think he's
                        been really well for two or three months. How has he seemed
                        to-day?"
                    "In fair health," Mr. Schofield replied thoughtfully.
                        "Della called me up at the office to tell me that one of the
                        telephone trouble-men had come into the house to say that if that durn boy
                        didn't quit climbing their poles they'd have him arrested.
                        They said he"
                    "That's it!" Mrs. Schofield interrupted quickly.
                        "He's nervous. It's some nervous trouble makes
                        him act like that. He's not like himself at all."
                    "Sometimes," said Mr. Schofield, "I wish he
                        weren't."
                    "When he's himself," Mrs. Schofield went on
                        anxiously, "he's very quiet and good; he doesn't
                        go climbing telegraph-poles and reckless things like that. And I noticed
                        before I went away that he was growing twitchy, and seemed to be getting the
                        habit of making unpleasant little noises in his throat."
                    "Don't fret about that," said her husband.
                        "He was trying to learn Sam Williams's imitation of a
                        bullfrog's croak. I used to do that myself when I was a boy.
                        Gl-glump, gallump! No; I can't do it now. But nearly all boys feel
                        obliged to learn it."
                    "You're entirely mistaken, Henry," she returned
                             a little sharply. "That
                        isn't the way he goes in his throat. Penrod is getting to be a very nervous boy, and he makes noises because he
                        can't help it. He works part of his face, too, sometimes, so much
                        that I've been afraid it would interfere with his looks."
                    "Interfere with his what?" For the moment, Mr. Schofield
                        seemed to be dazed.
                    "When he's himself," she returned crisply,
                        "he's quite a handsome boy."
                    "He is?"
                    "Handsomer than the average, anyhow," said Mrs. Schofield
                        firmly. "No wonder you don't see itwhen we've let
                        his system get all run down like this!"
                    "Good heavens!" murmured the mystified Mr. Schofield.
                        "Penrod's system hasn't been running down; its
                        just the same as it always was. He's absolutely all
                        right."
                    "Indeed he is not!" she said severely.
                        "We've got to take better care of him than we have
                        been."
                    "Why, how could"
                    "I know what I'm talking about," she interrupted.
                        "Penrod is anything but a strong boy, and it's all our
                        fault. We haven't been watchful enough of his health;
                        that's what's the matter with him and makes him so
                        nervous."
                    
                    Thus she continued, and, as she talked on, Mr. Schofield began, by
                        imperceptible processes, to adopt her views. As for Mrs. Schofield herself,
                        these views became substantial by becoming vocal. This is to say, with all
                        deference, that, as soon as she heard herself stating them she was convinced
                        that they accurately represented facts. And the determined look in her eyes
                        deepened when the "deepoe hack" turned the familiar corner
                        and she saw Penrod running to the gate, followed by his little old dog,
                        Duke.
                    Never had Penrod been so glad to greet his mother. Never was he more
                        boisterous in the expression of happiness of that kind. And the tokens of
                        his appetite at dinner, a little later, were extraordinary. Mr. Schofield
                        began to feel reassured in spite of himself, but Mrs. Schofield shook her
                        head.
                    "Don't you see? It's abnormal!" she said,
                        in a low, decisive voice.
                    That night Penrod awoke from a sweet, conscienceless slumberor, rather, he
                        was awakened. A wrappered form lurked over him in the gloom.
                    "Uffow" he muttered, and turned his face from the dim light
                        that shone through the doorway. He sighed and sought the depths of sleep
                        again.
                    
                    "Penrod," said his mother softly, and, while he resisted
                        feebly, she turned him over to face her.
                    "Gawn lea' me 'lone," he muttered.
                    Then, as a little sphere touched his lips, he jerked his head away, startled.
                    "Whassat?"
                    Mrs. Schofield replied in tones honeysweet and coaxing:
                    "It's just a nice little pill, Penrod."
                    "Doe waw 'ny!" he protested, keeping his eyes
                        shut, clinging to the sleep from which he was being riven.
                    "Be a good boy, Penrod," she whispered.
                        "Here's a glass of nice cool water to swallow it down
                        with. Come, dear; it's going to do you lots of good."
                    And again the little pill was placed suggestively against his lips; but his
                        head jerked backward, and his hand struck out in blind, instinctive
                        self-defense.
                    "I'll bust that ole pill," he
                        muttered, still with closed eyes. "Lemme get my han's on
                        it an' I will!"
                    "Penrod!"
                    
                        "Please go on away, mamma!"
                    "I will, just as soon as you take this little pill."
                    "I did."
                    
                    "No. dear."
                    
                    "I did," Penrod insisted plaintively. "You made me
                        take it just before I went to bed."
                    "Oh, yes; that one. But, dearie," Mrs.
                        Schofield explained, "I got to thinking about it after I went to
                        bed, and I decided you'd better have another."
                    "I don't want another."
                    "Yes, dearie."
                    "Please go 'way and let me sleep."
                    "Not till you've taken the little pill, dear."
                    "Oh, golly!" Groaning, he propped himself
                        upon an elbow and allowed the pill to pass between his lips. (He would have
                        allowed anything whatever to pass between them, if that passing permitted
                        his return to slumber.) Then, detaining the pill in his mouth, he swallowed
                        half a glass of water, and again was recumbent.
                    "G'-night, mamma."
                    "Good-night, dearie. Sleep well."
                    "Yes'm."
                    After her departure Penrod drowsily enjoyed the sugar coating of the pill,
                        but this was indeed a brief pleasure. A bitterness that was like a pang
                        suddenly made itself known to his sense of taste, and he realized that he
                        had dallied too confidingly with the product of a manufacturing chemist who
                        should  have been indicted for criminal
                        economy. The medicinal portion of the little pill struck the wall with a
                        faint tap, then dropped noiselessly to the floor, and, after a time, Penrod
                        slept.
                    Some hours later he began to dream; he dreamed that his feet and legs were
                        becoming uncomfortable as a result of Sam Williams' activities with
                        a red-hot poker.
                    "You quit that!" he said aloud, and awoke
                        indignantly. Again a dark, wrappered figure hovered over the bed.
                    "It's only a hot-water bag, dear," said Mrs.
                        Schofield, still labouring under the covers with an extended arm.
                        "You mustn't hunch yourself up that way, Penrod. Put your
                        feet down on it."
                    And, as he continued to hunch himself, she moved the bag in the direction of
                        his withdrawal.
                    "Ow, murder!" he exclaimed convulsively. "What you
                        tryin' to do? Scald me to death?"
                    "Penrod"
                    "My goodness, mamma," he wailed; "can't
                        you let me sleep a minute?"
                    
                    "It's very bad for you to let your feet get cold,
                        dear."
                    "They weren't cold. I don't want
                        any ole hot--wat"
                    
                    "Penrod," she said firmly, "you must put your feet
                        against the bag. It isn't too hot."
                    "Oh, isn't it?" he retorted. "I
                        don't s'pose you'd care if I burned my feet right
                        off! Mamma, won't you please, pul-leeze let me
                        get some sleep?"
                    "Not till you"
                    She was interrupted by a groan which seemed to come from an abyss.
                    "All right, I'll do it! Let 'em burn,
                        then!" Thus spake the desperate Penrod; and Mrs. Schofield was able
                        to ascertain that one heel had been placed in light contact with the bag.
                    "No; both feet, Penrod."
                    With a tragic shiver he obeyed.
                    
                        "That's right, dear! Now, keep them that
                        way. It's good for you. Good-night."
                    "G'-night!"
                    The door closed softly behind her, and the body of Penrod, from the hips
                        upward, rose invisibly in the complete darkness of the bedchamber. A moment
                        later the hot-water bag reached the floor in as noiseless a manner as that
                        previously adopted by the remains of the little pill, and Penrod once more
                        bespread his soul with poppies. This time he slept until the breakfast-bell
                        rang.
                    
                    He was late to school, and at once found himself in difficulties. Government
                        demanded an explanation of the tardiness, but Penrod made no reply of any
                        kind. Taciturnity is seldom more strikingly out of place than under such
                        circumstances, and the penalties imposed took account not only of
                        Penrod's tardiness but of his supposititious defiance of authority
                        in declining to speak. The truth was that Penrod did not know why he was
                        tardy, and, with mind still lethargic, found it impossible to think of an
                        excusehis continuing silence being due merely to the persistence of his
                        efforts to invent one. Thus were his meek searchings misinterpreted, and the
                        unloved hours of improvement in science and the arts made odious.
                    "They'll see!" he whispered
                        sorely to himself, as he bent low over his desk, a little later. Some day he
                        would "show 'em." The picture in his mind was of
                        a vast, vague assembly of people headed by Miss Spence and the superior
                        pupils who were never tardy, and these multitudes, representing persecution
                        and government in general, were all cringing before a Penrod Schofield who
                        rode a grim black horse up and down their miserable ranks, and gave curt
                        orders.
                    
                    "Make 'em step back there!" he commanded his
                        myrmidons savagely. "Fix it so's your horses'll
                        step on their feet if they don't do what I say!" Then,
                        from his shining saddle, he watched the throngs slinking away. "I
                        guess they know who I am now!"
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    THE TONIC
                    
                        THESE broodings helped a little, but it was a severe
                        morning, and on his way home at noon he did not recover heart enough to
                        practise the bullfrog's croak, the craft of which Sam Williams had
                        lately mastered to inspiring perfection. This sonorous accomplishment Penrod
                        had determined to make his own. At once guttural and resonant, impudent yet
                        plaintive, with a barbaric twang like the plucked string of a Congo
                        war-fiddle, the sound had fascinated him. It is made in the throat by
                        processes utterly impossible to describe in human words, and no alphabet as
                        yet produced by civilized man affords the symbols to vocalize it to the ear
                        of imagination. "Gunk" is the poor makeshift which must be
                        employed to indicate it.
                    Penrod uttered one half-hearted "Gunk" as
                        he turned in at his own gate. However, this stimulated him, and he paused to
                        practise. "Gunk!" he croaked. "Gunkgunkgunkgunk!"
                    
                    
                    Mrs. Schofield leaned out of an open window upstairs.
                    "Don't do that, Penrod," she said anxiously.
                        "Please don't do that."
                    "Why not?" asked Penrod, and feeling encouraged by his
                        progress in the new art, he continued: "Gunk!
                            Gunkgunkgunk! Gunkgunk"
                    
                    "Please try not to do it," she urged pleadingly.
                        "You can stop it if you try. Won't you,
                        dear?"
                    But Penrod felt that he was almost upon the point of attaining a mastery
                        equal to that of Sam Williams. He had just managed to do something in his
                        throat that he had never done before, and he felt that unless he kept on
                        doing it at this time, his new-born facility might evade him later.
                            "Gunk!" he croaked. "Gunkgunkgunk!" And he continued to croak,
                        persevering monotonously, his expression indicating the depth of his
                        preoccupation.
                    His mother looked down solicitously, murmured in a melancholy undertone,
                        shook her head; then disappeared from the window, and, after a moment or
                        two, opened the front door.
                    "Come in, dear," she said; "I've got
                        something for you."
                    Penrod's look of preoccupation vanished***; he  brightened and ceased to croak. His mother had already given
                        him a small leather pocketbook with a nickel in it, as a souvenir of her
                        journey. Evidently she had brought another gift as well, delaying its
                        presentation until now. "I've got something for
                        you!" These were auspicious words.
                    "What is it, mamma?" he asked, and as she smiled tenderly
                        upon him, his gayety increased. "Yay!" he shouted.
                        "Mamma, is it that reg'lar carpenter's tool chest
                        I told you about?"
                    "No," she said. "But I'll show you,
                        Penrod.
                    He followed her with alacrity to the dining-room, and the bright anticipation
                        in his eyes grew more brilliantuntil she opened the door of the
                        china-closet, simultaneously with that action announcing cheerily:
                    "It's something that's going to do you lots of
                        good, Penrod."
                    He was instantly chilled, for experience had taught him that when predictions
                        of this character were made, nothing pleasant need be expected. Two seconds
                        later his last hope departed as she turned from the closet and he beheld in
                        her hands a quart bottle containing what appeared to be a  section of grassy swamp immersed in a cloudy
                        brown liquor. He stepped back, grave suspicion in his glance.
                    "What is that?" he asked, in a hard
                        voice.
                    Mrs. Schofield smiled upon him.
                    "It's nothing," she said. "That is,
                        it's nothing you'll mind at all. It's just so you
                        won't be so nervous."
                    "I'm not nervous."
                    "You don't think so, of course, dear," she
                        returned, and, as she spoke, she poured some of the brown liquor into a
                        tablespoon. "People often can't tell when they're
                        nervous themselves; but your papa and I have been getting a little anxious
                        about you, dear, and so I got this medicine for you."
                    
                        "Where'd you get it?" he
                        demanded.
                    Mrs. Schofield set the bottle down and moved toward him, insinuatingly
                        extending the full table-spoon.
                    "Here, dear," she said; "just take this little
                        spoonful, like a goo"
                    "I want to know where it came from," he insisted darkly,
                        again stepping backward.
                    "Where?" she echoed absently, watching to see that nothing
                        was spilled from the spoon as she continued 
                        to move toward him. "Why, I was talking to old Mrs. Wottaw at
                        market this morning, and she said her son Clark used to have nervous
                        trouble, and she told me about this medicine and how to have it made at the
                        drug store. She told me it cured Clark, and"
                    "I don't want to be cured," said Penrod, adding
                        inconsistently, "I haven't got anything to be cured
                        of."
                    "Now, dear," Mrs. Schofield began, "you
                        don't want your papa and me to keep on worrying about"
                    "I don't care whether you worry or not," the
                        heart-less boy interrupted. "I don't want to take any
                        horrable ole medicine. What's that grass and weeds in the bottle
                        for?"
                    Mrs. Schofield looked grieved.
                    "There isn't any grass and there aren't any weeds;
                        those are healthful herbs."
                    "I bet they'll make me sick."
                    She sighed.
                    "Penrod, we're trying to make you well."
                    "But I am well, I tell you!"
                    "No, dear; your papa's been very much troubled about you.
                        Come, Penrod; swallow this down and 
                        don't make such a fuss about it. It's just for your own
                        good."
                    And she advanced upon him again, the spoon extended toward his lips. It
                        almost touched them for he had retreated until his back was against the
                        wall-paper. He could go no farther, but he evinced his unshaken repugnance
                        by averting his face.
                    "What's it taste like?" he demanded.
                    "It's not unpleasant at all," she answered, poking
                        the spoon at his mouth. "Mrs. Wottaw said Clark used to be very
                        fond of it. 'It doesn't taste like ordinary medicine at
                        all,' she said."
                    "How often I got to take it?" Penrod mumbled, as the
                        persistent spoon sought to enter his mouth. "Just this
                        once?"
                    "No, dear; three times a day."
                    "I won't do it!"
                    "Penrod!" She spoke sharply. "You swallow this
                        down and stop making such a fuss. I can't be all day.
                        Hurry!"
                    She inserted the spoon between his lips, so that its rim touched his clenched
                        teeth; he was still reluctant. Moreover, his reluctance was natural and
                        characteristic, for a boy's sense of taste is as simple  and as peculiar as a dog's though,
                        of course, altogether different from a dog's. A boy, passing
                        through the experimental age, may eat and drink astonishing things, but they
                        must be of his own choosing. His palate is tender, and, in one sense, might
                        be called fastidious; nothing is more sensitive or more easily shocked. A
                        boy tastes things much more than grown people taste them:
                        what is merely unpleasant to a man is sheer broth of hell to a boy.
                        Therefore, not knowing what might be encountered, Penrod continued to be
                        reluctant.
                    "Penrod," his mother exclaimed, losing patience,
                        "I'll call your papa, to make you take it, if you
                        don't swallow it right down! Open your mouth, Penrod! It
                        isn't going to taste bad at all. Open your mouth there!"
                    
                    The reluctant jaw relaxed at last, and Mrs. Schofield dexterously elevated
                        the handle of the spoon so that the brown liquor was deposited within her
                        son.
                    "There!" she repeated triumphantly. "It
                        wasn't so bad after all, was it?"
                    Penrod did not reply. His expression had become odd, and the oddity of his
                        manner was  equal to that of his expression.
                        Uttering no sound, he seemed to distend, as if he had suddenly become a
                        pneumatic boy under dangerous pressure. Meanwhile, his reddening eyes, fixed
                        awfully upon his mother, grew unbearable.
                    "Now, it wasn't such a bad taste," said Mrs.
                        Schofield rather nervously. "Don't go acting that way, Penrod!"
                    But Penrod could not help himself. In truth, even a grown person hardened to
                        all manner of flavours, and able to eat caviar or liquid Camembert, would
                        have found the cloudy brown liquor virulently repulsive. It contained in
                        solution, with other things, the vital element of surprise, for it was
                        comparatively odourless, and, unlike the chivalrous rattlesnake, gave no
                        warning of what it was about to do. In the case of Penrod, the surprise was
                        complete and its effect visibly shocking.
                    The distention by which he began to express his emotion appeared to be
                        increasing; his slender throat swelled as his cheeks puffed. His shoulders
                        rose toward his ears; he lifted his right leg in an unnatural way and held
                        it rigidly in the air.
                    "Stop that, Penrod!" Mrs. Schofield commanded.
                    "You stop it!"
                    
                    He found his voice.
                    "Uff! Oooff!" he said thickly, and
                        collapseda mere, ordinary, every-day convulsion taking the place of his
                        pneumatic symptoms. He began to writhe, at the same time opening and closing
                        his mouth rapidly and repeatedly, waving his arms, stamping on the floor.
                    "Ow! Ow-ow-ow!" he vociferated.
                    Reassured by these normal demonstrations, of a type with which she was
                        familiar, Mrs. Schofield resumed her fond smile.
                    
                        "You're all right, little
                        boysie!" she said heartily. Then, picking up the bottle, she
                        replenished the tablespoon, and told Penrod something she had considered it
                        undiplomatic to mention before.
                    "Here's the other one," she said sweetly.
                    "Uuf!" he sputtered. "Otheruhwhat?"
                    "Two tablespoons before each meal," she informed him.
                    Instantly Penrod made the first of a series of passionate efforts to leave
                        the room. His determination was so intense, and the manifestations of it
                        were so ruthless, that Mrs. Schofield, exhausted, found herself obliged to
                        call for the official head of the housein fact, she found herself obliged to
                             shriek for him; and Mr. Schofield, upon
                        hastily entering the room, beheld his wife apparently in the act of sawing
                        his son back and forth across the sili of an open window.
                    Penrod made a frantic effort to reach the good green earth, even after his
                        mother's clutch upon his ankle had been renforced by his
                        father's. Nor was the lad's revolt subdued when he was
                        deposited upon the floor and the window closed. Indeed, it may be said that
                        he actually never gave up, though it is a fact that the second potion was
                        successfully placed inside him. But by the time this feat was finally
                        accomplished, Mr. Schofield had proved that, in spite of middle age, he was
                        entitled to substantial claims and honours both as athlete and oratorhis
                        oratory being founded less upon the school of Web-ster and more upon that of
                        Jeremiah.
                    So the thing was done, and the double dose put within the person of Penrod
                        Schofield. It proved not ineffective there, and presently, as its new owner
                        sat morosely at table, he began to feel slightly dizzy and his eyes refused
                        him perfect service. This was natural, because two tablespoons of the cloudy
                        brown liquor contained about the amount of alcohol to be found in an
                        ordinary cocktail. Now a boy  does not enjoy
                        the effects of intoxication; enjoyment of that kind is obtained only by
                        studious application. Therefore, Penrod spoke of his symptoms complainingly,
                        and even showed himself so vindictive as to attribute them to the new
                        medicine.
                    His mother made no reply. Instead, she nodded her head as if some inner
                        conviction had proven well founded.
                    
                        "Bilious, too," she whispered to her
                        husband.
                    That evening, during the half-hour preceding dinner, the dining-room was the
                        scene of another struggle, only a little less desperate than that which had
                        been the prelude to lunch, and again an appeal to the head of the house was
                        found necessary. Muscular activity and a liberal imitation of the jeremiads
                        once more subjugated the rebeland the same rebellion and its suppression in
                        a like manner took place the following morning before breakfast But this was
                        Saturday, and, without warning or apparent reason, a remarkable change came
                        about at noon. However, Mr. and Mrs. Schofield were used to inexplicable
                        changes in Penrod, and they missed its significance.
                    When Mrs. Schofield, with dread in her heart, called Penrod into the house
                        "to take his medicine" 
                        before lunch, he came briskly, and took it like a lamb!
                    "Why, Penrod, that's splendid!" she cried.
                        "You see it isn't bad, at all."
                    "No'm," he said meekly. "Not when you get
                        used to it."
                    "And aren't you ashamed, making all that fuss?"
                        she went on happily.
                    "Yes'm, I guess so."
                    "And don't you feel better? Don't you see how much
                        good it's doing you already?"
                    "Yes'm, I guess so."
                    Upon a holiday morning, several weeks later, Penrod and Sam Williams revived
                        a pastime which they called "drug store," setting up
                        display counters, selling chemical, cosmetic, and other compounds to
                        imaginary customers, filling prescriptions, and variously conducting
                        themselves in a pharmaceutical manner. They were in the midst of affairs
                        when Penrod interrupted his partner and himself with a cry of recollection.
                    
                        "I know!" he shouted. "I got
                        some mighty good ole stuff we want. You wait!" And, dashing to the
                        house, he disappeared.
                    
                    Returning immediately, Penrod placed upon the principal counter of the
                        "drug store" a large bottle. It was a quart bottle, in
                        fact; and it contained what appeared to be a section of grassy swamp
                        immersed in a cloudy brown liquor.
                    "There!" Penrod exclaimed. "How's that
                        for some good ole medicine?"
                    "It's good ole stuff," Sam said approvingly.
                    "Where'd you get it? Whose is it, Penrod?"
                    "It was mine," said Penrod. "Up
                        to about serreval days ago, it was. They quit givin' it to me. I
                        had to take two bottles and a half of it."
                    "What did you haf to take it for?"
                    "I got nervous, or sumpthing," said Penrod.
                    "You all well again now?"
                    "I guess so. Uncle Passloe and cousin Ronald came to visit, and I
                        expect she was too busy to think about it, or sumpthing. Anyway, she quit
                        makin' me take it, and said I was lots better. She's
                        forgot all about it by this time."
                    Sam was looking at the bottle with great interest.
                    "What's all that stuff in there, Penrod?" he
                        asked.
                    "What's all that stuff in there looks like grass?"
                    "It is grass," said Penrod.
                    
                    "How'd it get there?"
                    "I stuck it in there," the candid boy replied.
                    "First they had some horrable ole stuff in there like to killed me.
                        But after they got three doses down me, I took the bottle out in the yard
                        and cleaned her all out and pulled a lot o' good ole grass and
                        stuffed her pretty full and poured in a lot of good ole hydrant water on top
                        of it. Then, when they got the next bottle, I did the same way,
                        and"
                    "It don't look like water," Sam objected.
                    Penrod laughed a superior laugh.
                    "Oh, that's nothin'," he said, with the
                        slight swagger of young and conscious genius. "Of course, I had to
                        slip in and shake her up sometimes, so's they wouldn't
                        notice."
                    "But what did you put in it to make it look like that?"
                    Penrod, upon the point of replying, happened to glance toward the house. His
                        gaze, lifting, rested for a moment upon a window. The head of Mrs. Schofield
                        was framed in that window. She nodded gayly to her son. She could see him
                        plainly, and she thought that he seemed perfectly healthy, and as happy as a
                        boy could be. She was right.
                    "What did you put in it?" Sam insisted.
                    
                    And probably it was just as well that, though Mrs. Schofield could see her
                        son, the distance was too great for her to hear him.
                    "Oh, nothin'," Penrod replied.
                        "Nothin' but a little good ole mud."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    GIPSY
                    
                        ON A fair Saturday afternoon in November Penrod's
                        little old dog Duke returned to the ways of his youth and had trouble with a
                        strange cat on the back porch. This indiscretion, so uncharacteristic, was
                        due to the agitation of a surprised moment, for Duke's experience
                        had inclined him to a peaceful pessimism, and he had no ambition for
                        hazardous undertakings of any sort. He was given to musing but not to
                        avoidable action, and he seemed habitually to hope for something which he
                        was pretty sure would not happen. Even in his sleep, this gave him an air of
                        wistfulness.
                    Thus, being asleep in a ***nook behind the metal refuse-can, when the strange
                        cat ventured to ascend the steps of the porch, his appearance was so
                        unwar-like that the cat felt encouraged to extend its field of
                        reconnaissancefor the cook had been careless, and the backbone of a
                        three-pound whitefish lay at the foot of the refuse-can.
                    
                    This cat was, for a cat, needlessly tall, powerful, independent, and
                        masculine. Once, long ago, he had been a roly-poly pepper-and-salt kitten;
                        he had a home in those days, and a name, "Gipsy," which he
                        abundantly justified. He was precocious in dissipation. Long before his
                        adolescence, his lack of domesticity was ominous, and he had formed bad
                        companionships. Meanwhile, he grew so rangy, and developed such length and
                        power of leg and such traits of character, that the father of the little
                        girl who owned him was almost convincing when he declared that the young cat
                        was half broncho and half Malay piratethough, in the light of
                        Gipsy's later career, this seems bitterly unfair to even the lowest
                        orders of bronchos and Malay pirates.
                    No; Gipsy was not the pet for a little girl. The rosy hearthstone and
                        sheltered rug were too circumspect for him. Surrounded by the comforts of
                        middle-class respectability, and profoundly oppressed, even in his youth, by
                        the Puritan ideals of the house-hold, he sometimes experienced a sense of
                        suffocation. He wanted free air and he wanted free life; he wanted the
                        lights, the lights, and the music. He abandoned the bourgeoisie irrevocably. He went forth in a  May twilight, carrying the evening beefsteak with him, and
                        joined the underworld.
                    His extraordinary size, his daring, and his utter lack of sympathy soon made
                        him the leaderand, at the same time, the terrorof all the loose-lived cats
                        in a wide neighbourhood. He contracted no friendships and had no confidants.
                        He seldom slept in the same place twice in succession, and though he was
                        wanted by the police, he was not found. In appearance he did not lack
                        distinction of an ominous sort; the slow, rhythmic, perfectly controlled
                        mechanism of his tail, as he impressively walked abroad, was incomparably
                        sinister. This stately and dangerous walk of his, his long, vibrant
                        whiskers, his scars, his yellow eye, so ice-cold, so fire-hot, haughty as
                        the eye of Satan, gave him the deadly air of a mousquetaire duellist. His
                        soul was in that walk and in that eye; it could be readthe soul of a bravo
                        of fortune, living on his wits and his valour, asking no favours and
                        granting no quarter. Intolerant, proud, sullen, yet watchful and constantly
                        planningpurely a militarist, believing in slaughter as in a religion, and
                        confident that art, science, poetry, and the good of the world were happily
                        advanced therebyGipsy had become, though technically not a wildcat,  undoubtedly the most untamed cat at large in
                        the civilized world. Such, in brief, was the terrifying creature which now
                        elongated its neck, and, over the top step of the porch, bent a calculating
                        scrutiny upon the wistful and slumberous Duke.
                    The scrutiny was searching but not prolonged. Gipsy muttered contemptuously
                        to himself, "Oh, sheol; I'm not afraid o' that!" And he approached the fishbone, his padded
                        feet making no noise upon the boards. It was a desirable fishbone, large,
                        with a considerable portion of the fish's tail still attached to
                        it.
                    It was about a foot from Duke's nose, and the little dog's
                        dreams began to be troubled by his olfactory nerve. This faithful sentinel,
                        on guard even while Duke slept, signalled that alarums and excursions by
                        parties unknown were taking place, and suggested that attention might well
                        be paid. Duke opened one drowsy eye. What that eye beheld was monstrous.
                    Here was a strange experiencesthe horrific vision in the midst of things so
                        accustomed. Sunshine fell sweetly upon porch and backyard; yonder was the
                        familiar stable, and from its interior came the busy hum of a carpenter
                        shop, established that  morning by
                        Duke's young master, in association with Samuel Williams and
                        Herman. Here, close by, were the quiet refuse-can and the wonted brooms and
                        mops leaning against the latticed wall at the end of the porch, and there,
                        by the foot of the steps, was the stone slab of the cistern, with the iron
                        cover displaced and lying beside the round opening, where the carpenters had
                        left it, not half an hour ago, after lowering a stick of wood into the
                        water, "to season it." All about Duke were these usual and
                        reassuring environs of his daily life, and yet it was his fate to behold,
                        right in the midst of them, and in ghastly juxtaposition to his face, a
                        thing of nightmare and lunacy.
                    Gipsy had seized the fishbone by the middle. Out from one side of his head,
                        and mingling with his whiskers, projected the long, spiked spine of the big
                        fish; down from the other side of that ferocious head dangled the
                        fish's tail, and from above the remarkable effect thus produced
                        shot the intolerable glare of two yellow eyes. To the gaze of Duke, still
                        blurred by slumber, this monstrosity was all of one piecethe bone seemed a
                        living part of it. What he saw was like those interesting insect-faces which
                        the magnifying glass reveals to great M. Fabre.
                    
                    It was impossible for Duke to maintain the philosophic calm of M. Fabre,
                        however; there was no magnifying glass between him and this spined and spiky
                        face. Indeed, Duke was not in a position to think the matter over quietly.
                        If he had been able to do that, he would have said to himself: "We
                        have here an animal of most peculiar and unattractive appearance, though,
                        upon examination, it seems to be only a cat stealing a fishbone.
                        Nevertheless, as the thief is large beyond all my recollection of cats and
                        has an unpleasant stare, I will leave this spot at once."
                    On the contrary, Duke was so electrified by his horrid awakening that he
                        completely lost his presence of mind. In the very instant of his first
                        eye's opening, the other eye and his mouth behaved similarly, the
                        latter loosing upon the quiet air one shriek of mental agony before the
                        little dog scrambled to his feet and gave further employment to his voice in
                        a frenzy of profanity. At the same time the subterranean diapason of a
                        demoniac bass viol was heard; it rose to a wail, and rose and rose again
                        till it screamed like a small siren. It was Gipsy's war-cry, and,
                        at the sound of it, Duke became a frothing maniac. He made a convulsive
                        frontal attack upon the hobgoblinand the massacre began.
                    
                    Never releasing the fishbone for an instant, Gipsy laid back his ears in a
                        chilling way, beginning to shrink into himself like a concertina, but rising
                        amid-ships so high that he appeared to be giving an imitation of that
                        peaceful beast, the dromedary. Such was not his purpose, however, for,
                        having attained his greatest possible altitude, he partially sat down and
                        elevated his right arm after the manner of a semaphore. This semaphore arm
                        remained rigid for a second, threatening; then it vibrated with
                        inconceivable rapidity, feinting. But it was the treacherous left that did
                        the work. Seemingly this left gave Duke three lightning little pats upon the
                        right ear, but the change in his voice indicated that these were no
                        love-taps. He yelled "help!" and "bloody
                        murder!"
                    Never had such a shattering uproar, all vocal, broken out upon a peaceful
                        afternoon. Gipsy possessed a vocabulary for cat-swearing certainly second to
                        none out of Italy, and probably equal to the best there, while Duke
                        remembered and uttered things he had not thought of for years.
                    The hum of the carpenter shop ceased, and Sam Williams appeared in the stable
                        doorway. He stared insanely.
                    
                    "My gorry!" he shouted. "Duke's
                        havin' a fight with the biggest cat you ever saw in your life!
                        C'mon!"
                    His feet were already in motion toward the battle-field, with Penrod and
                        Herman hurrying in his wake. Onward they sped, and Duke was encouraged by
                        the sight and sound of these renforcements to increase his own outrageous
                        clamours and to press home his attack. But he was ill-advised. This time it
                        was the right arm of the semaphore that dippedand Duke's honest
                        nose was but too conscious of what happened in consequence.
                    A lump of dirt struck the refuse-can with violence, and Gipsy beheld the
                        advance of overwhelming forces. They rushed upon him from two directions,
                        cutting off the steps of the porch. Undaunted, the formidable cat raked
                        Duke's nose again, somewhat more lingeringly, and prepared to
                        depart with his fishbone. He had little fear for himself, because he was
                        inclined to think that, unhampered, he could whip anything on earth; still,
                        things seemed to be growing rather warm and he saw nothing to prevent his
                        leaving.
                    And though he could laugh in the face of so unequal an antagonist as Duke,
                        Gipsy felt that he  was never at his best or
                        able to do himself full justice unless he could perform that feline
                        operation inaccurately known as "spitting." To his notion,
                        this was an absolute essential to combat; but, as all cats of the slightest
                        pretensions to technique perfectly understand, it can neither be well done
                        nor produce the best effects unless the mouth be opened to its utmost
                        capacity so as to expose the beginnings of the alimentary canal, down
                        whichat least that is the intention of the threatthe opposing party will
                        soon be passing. And Gipsy could not open his mouth without relinquishing
                        his fishbone.
                    Therefore, on small accounts he decided to leave the field to his enemies and
                        to carry the fishbone elsewhere. He took two giant leaps. The first landed
                        him upon the edge of the porch. There, without an instant's pause,
                        he gathered his fur-sheathed muscles, concentrated himself into one big
                        steel spring, and launched himself superbly into space. He made a stirring
                        picture, however brief, as he left the solid porch behind him and sailed
                        upward on an ascending curve into the sunlit air. His head was proudly up;
                        he was the incarnation of menacing power and of self-confidence. It is
                        possible that the white-fish's spinal column and flopping tail had
                        interfered  with his vision, and in launching
                        himself he may have mistaken the dark, round opening of the cistern for its
                        dark, round cover. In that case, it was a leap calculated and executed with
                        precision, for as the boys clamoured their pleased astonishment, Gipsy
                        descended accurately into the orifice and passed majestically from public
                        view, with the fishbone still in his mouth and his haughty head still high.
                    There was a grand splash!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    CONCERNING TROUSERS
                    
                        DUKE, hastening to place himself upon the stone slab,
                        raged at his enemy in safety; and presently the indomitable Gipsy could be
                        heard from the darkness below, turning on the bass of his siren, threatening
                        the water which enveloped him, returning Duke's profanity with
                        interest, and cursing the general universe.
                    "You hush!" Penrod stormed, rushing at Duke***.
                    "You go 'way from here! You Duke!"
                    
                    And Duke, after prostrating himself, decided that it would be a relief to
                        obey and to consider his responsibilities in this matter at an end. He
                        withdrew beyond a corner of the house, thinking deeply.
                    "Why'n't you let him bark at the ole
                        cat?" Sam Williams inquired, sympathizing with the oppressed.
                    "I guess you'd want to bark if a cat had been
                        treatin' you the way this one did Duke."
                    "Well, we got to get this cat out o' here, haven't
                        we?" Penrod demanded crossly.
                    
                    "What fer?" asked Herman. "Mighty mean cat! If it
                        was me, I let 'at ole cat drownd."
                    "My goodness'" Penrod cried. "What you
                        want to let it drown for? Anyways, we got to use this water in our house,
                        haven't we? You don't s'pose people like to use
                        water that's got a cat drowned in it, do you? It gets pumped up
                        into the tank in the attic and goes all over the house, and I bet you
                        wouldn't want to see your father and mother usin' water a
                        cat was drowned in. I guess I don't want my father and
                        moth"
                    "Well, how can we get it out?" Sam asked,
                        cutting short this virtuous oration. "It's
                        swimmin' around down there," he continued, peering into
                        the cistern, "and kind of roaring, and it must of dropped its
                        fishbone, 'cause it's spittin' just awful. I
                        guess maybe it's mad 'cause it fell in there."
                    "I don't know how it's goin' to be got
                        out," said Penrod, "but I know it's got to be got out, and that's all there is to it!
                        I'm not goin' to have my father and mother"
                    "Well, once," said Sam, "once when a kitten fell
                        down our cistern, papa took a pair of his trousers, and he
                        held 'em by the end of one leg, and let 'em hang down
                        through the hole till the end of the other leg  was in the water, and the kitten went and clawed hold of it, and he
                        pulled it right up, easy as anything. Well, that's the way to do
                        now, 'cause if a kitten could keep hold of a pair of trousers, I
                        guess this ole cat could. It's the biggest cat I
                        ever saw! All you got to do is to go and ast your mother for a pair of your
                        father's trousers, and we'll have this ole cat out
                        o' there in no time."
                    Penrod glanced toward the house perplexedly.
                    "She ain't home, and I'd be afraid to"
                    "Well, take your own, then," Sam suggested briskly.
                        "You take 'em off in the stable, and wait in there, and I
                        and Herman'll get the cat out."
                    Penrod had no enthusiasm for this plan, but he affected to consider it.
                    "Well, I don't know 'bout that," he said,
                        and then, after gazing attentively into the cistern and making some eye
                        measurements of his knickerbockers, he shook his head.
                        "They'd be too short. They wouldn't be near long enough!"
                    "Then neither would mine," said Sam promptly.
                    "Herman's would," said Penrod.
                    "No, suh!" Herman had recently been promoted to long
                        trousers, and he expressed a strong disinclination to fall in with
                        Penrod's idea. "My mammy 
                        sit up late nights sewin' on 'ese britches fer me,
                        makin' 'em outen of a pair o 'pappy's,
                        an' they mighty good britches. Ain' goin' have no
                        wet cat climbin' up 'em! No, suh!"
                    Both boys began to walk toward him argumentatively, while he moved slowly
                        backward, shaking his head and denying them.
                    "I don't keer how much you talk!" he said.
                        "Mammy give my ole britches to Verman,
                        an' 'ese here ones on'y britches I got now,
                        an' I'm go' to keep 'em on menot take
                        'em off an' let ole wet cat splosh all over 'em.
                        My mammy, she sewed 'em fer me, I
                        reckondin' sew 'em fer no cat!"
                    "Oh, please, come on, Herman!" Penrod
                        begged pathetically. "You don't want to see the poor cat
                        drown, do you?"
                    "Mighty mean cat!" said Herman. "Bet' let
                        'at ole pussy-cat 'lone whur it is."
                    "Why, it'll only take a minute," Sam urged.
                        "You just wait inside the stable and you'll have
                        'em back on again before you could say 'Jack
                        Robinson.'"
                    "I ain' got no use to say no Jack Robason," said
                        Herman. "An' I ain' go' to han'
                        over my britches fer no cat!"
                    
                    "Listen here, Herman," Penrod began pleadingly.
                        "You can watch us every minute through the crack in the stable
                        door, can't you? We ain't goin' to hurt 'em any, are we? You can see everything we do,
                        can't you? Look at here, Herman: you know that little saw you said
                        you wished it was yours, m the carpenter shop? Well, honest, if
                        you'll just let us take your trousers till we get this poor ole cat
                        out the cistern, I'll give you that little saw."
                    Herman was shaken; he yearned for the little saw.
                    "You gimme her to keep?" he asked cautiously. "You
                        gimme her befo' I han' over my britches?"
                    "You'll see!" Penrod ran into the stable, came
                        back with the little saw, and placed it in Herman's hand. Herman
                        could resist no longer, and two minutes later he stood in the necessary
                        neglige within the shelter of the stable door, and watched, through the
                        crack, the lowering of the surrendered garment into the cistern. His gaze
                        was anxious, and surely nothing could have been more natural, since the
                        removal had exposed Herman's brown legs, and although the weather
                        was far from inclement, November is never quite the month for people to be
                        out of doors entirely without leg-covering. Therefore, he marked with
                        impatience that Sam and  Penrod, after
                        lowering the trousers partway to the water, had withdrawn them and fallen
                        into an argument.
                    "Name o' goo'ness!" Herman shouted.
                        "I ain' got no time fer you all do so much
                        talkin'. If you go' git 'at cat out,
                        why'n't you git him?"
                    "Wait just a minute," Penrod called, and he came running to
                        the stable, seized upon a large wooden box, which the carpenters had fitted
                        with a lid and leather hinges, and returned with it cumbersomely to the
                        cistern. "There!" he said. "That'll do
                        to put it in. It won't get out o' that, I bet
                        you!"
                    "Well, I'd like to know what you want to keep it
                        for," Sam said peevishly, and, with the suggestion of a sneer, he
                        added, "I s'pose you think somebody'll pay about
                        a hunderd dollars reward, or give us a medal or something, on account of a
                        cat!"
                    "I don't, either!" Penrod protested hotly.
                        "I know what I'm doin', I tell you."
                    "Well, what on earth"
                    "I'll tell you some day, won't I?" Penrod
                        cried. "I got my reasons for wantin' to keep this cat, and
                        I'm goin' to keep it. You don't
                        haf to ke"
                    "Well, all right," said Sam shortly. "Anyways,
                        it'll be dead if you don't hurry."
                    
                    "It won't, either," Penrod returned, kneeling and
                        peering down upon the dark water. "Listen to him! He's
                        growlin' and spittin' away like anything! It takes a
                        mighty fine-blooded cat to be as fierce as that. I bet you most cats would
                        'a' given up and drowned long ago. The water's
                        awful cold, and I expect he was perty supprised when he lit in it."
                    "Herman's makin' a fuss again," said Sam.
                        "We better get the ole cat out o' there if we're
                        goin' to."
                    "Well, this is the way we'll do," Penrod said
                        authoritatively: "I'll let you hold the trousers, Sam. You
                        lay down and keep hold of one leg, and let the other one hang down till its
                        end is in the water. Then you kind of swish it around till it's
                        somewheres where the cat can get hold of it, and soon as he does, you pull
                        it up, and be mighty careful so's it don't fall off. Then
                        I'll grab it and stick it in the box and slam the lid
                        down."
                    Rather pleased to be assigned to the trousers, Sam accordingly extended
                        himself at full length upon the slab and proceeded to carry out
                        Penrod's instructions. Meanwhile, Penrod, peering from above,
                        inquired anxiously for information concerning this work of rescue.
                    
                    "Can you see it, Sam? Why don't it grab hold?
                        What's it doin' now, Sam?"
                    "It's spittin' at Herman's
                        trousers," said Sam. "My gracious, but it's a
                        fierce cat! If it's mad all the time like this, you better not ever
                        try to pet it much. Now it's kind o' sniffin' at
                        the trousers. It acks to me as if it was goin' to ketch holds. Yes,
                        it's stuck one claw in 'em Ow!"
                    
                    Sam uttered a blood-curdling shriek and jerked convulsively. The next
                        instant, streaming and inconceivably gaunt, the ravening Gipsy appeared with
                        a final bound upon Sam's shoulder. It was not in Gipsy's
                        character to be drawn up peaceably; he had ascended the trousers and
                        Sam's arm without assistance and in his own way. Simultaneouslyfor
                        this was a notable case of everything happening at oncethere was a muffled,
                        soggy splash, and the unfortunate Herman, smit with prophecy in his
                        seclusion, uttered a dismal yell. Penrod laid hands upon Gipsy, and, after a
                        struggle suggestive of sailors landing a man-eating shark, succeeded in
                        getting him into the box, and sat upon the lid thereof.
                    Sam had leaped to his feet, empty handed and vociferous.
                    "Ow, ow, ouch!" he shouted. as he rubbed
                        his  suffering arm and shoulder. Then,
                        exasperated by Herman's lamentations, he called angrily:
                        "Oh, what I care for your ole britches? I guess
                        if you'd 'a' had a cat climb up you, you'd 'a' dropped 'em a
                        hunderd times over!"
                    However, upon excruciating entreaty, he consented to explore the surface of
                        the water with a clothes-prop, but reported that the luckless trousers had
                        disappeared in the depths, Herman having forgotten to remove some
                        "fishin' sinkers" from his pockets before making
                        the fated loan.
                    Penrod was soothing a lacerated wrist in his mouth.
                    "That's a mighty fine-blooded cat," he remarked.
                        "I expect it'd got away from pretty near anybody,
                        'specially if they didn't know much about cats. Listen at
                        him, in the box, Sam. I bet you never heard a cat growl as loud as that in
                        your life. I shouldn't wonder it was part panther or
                        sumpthing."
                    Sam began to feel more interest and less resentment.
                    "I tell you what we can do, Penrod," he said:
                        "Let's take it in the stable and make the box into a cage.
                        We can take off the hinges, and slide back 
                        the lid a little at a time, and nail some o' those laths over the
                        front for bars."
                    "That's just exackly what I was goin' to
                        say!" Penrod exclaimed. "I already thought o'
                        that, Sam. Yessir, we'll make it just like a reg'lar
                        circus-cage, and our good ole cat can look out from between the bars and
                        growl. It'll come in pretty handy if we ever decide to have another
                        show. Anyways, we'll have her in there, good and tight, where we
                        can watch she don't get away. I got a mighty good reason to keep
                        this cat, Sam. You'll see."
                    "Well, why don't you" Sam was interrupted by a
                        vehement appeal from the stable. "Oh, we're
                        comin'!" he shouted. "We got to bring our cat in
                        its cage, haven't we?"
                    "Listen, Herman," Penrod called absent-mindedly.
                        "Bring us some bricks, or something awful heavy to put on the lid
                        of our cage, so we can carry it without our good ole cat pushin'
                        the lid open."
                    Herman explained with vehemence that it would not be right for him to leave
                        the stable upon any errand until just restorations had been made. He spoke
                        inimically of the cat, which had been the occasion of his loss, and he
                        earnestly requested that operations with the clothes-prop be resumed in the
                             cistern. Sam and Penrod declined, on the
                        ground that this was absolutely proven to be of no avail, and Sam went to
                        look for bricks.
                    These two boys were not unfeeling. They sympathized with Herman, but they
                        regarded the trousers as a loss about which there was no use in making so
                        much outcry. To them, it was part of an episode which ought to be closed.
                        They had done their best, and Sam had not intended to drop the trousers;
                        that was something which no one could have helped, and therefore no one was
                        to be blamed. What they were now interested in was the construction of a
                        circus-cage for their good ole cat.
                    "It's goin' to be a cage just exactly like
                        circus-cages, Herman," Penrod said, as he and Sam set the box down
                        on the stable floor. "You can help us nail the bars and"
                    "I ain' studyin' 'bout no bars!"
                        Herman interrupted fiercely. "What good you reckon nailin'
                        bars go' do me if mammy holler fer me? You white boys
                        sutn'y show me bad day! I try treat people nice, 'n
                        'en they go th'ow my britches down cistern!"
                    "I did not!" Sam protested. "That ole cat just
                        kicked 'em out o' my hand with its hind feet while  its front ones were stickin' in my
                        arm. I bet you'd of"
                    "Blame it on cat!" Herman sneered.
                        "'At's nice! Jes' looky here minute:
                        Who'd I len' 'em britches to? D' I
                        len' 'em britches to thishere cat? No, suh; you know I
                        didn'! You know well's any man I len'
                        'em britches to youan' you tuck an'
                        th'owed 'em down cistern!"
                    "Oh, please hush up about your old
                        britches!" Penrod said plaintively. "I got to think how
                        we're goin' to fix our cage up right, and you make so much
                        noise I can't get my mind on it. Anyways, didn't I give
                        you that little saw?"
                    "Li'l saw!" cried Herman, unmollified.
                        "Yes; an' thishere li'l saw go' do me
                        lot o' good when I got to go home!"
                    "Why, it's only across the alley to your house,
                        Herman!" said Sam. "That ain't anything at all to
                        step over there, and you've got your little saw."
                    "Aw right! You jes' take off you' clo'es
                        an' step cross the alley," said Herman bitterly.
                        "I give you li'l saw to carry!"
                    Penrod had begun to work upon the cage.
                    "Now listen here, Herman," he said: "If
                        you'll quit talkin' so much, and kind of get settled down
                        or  sumpthing, and help us fix a good cage for
                        our panther, well, when mamma comes home about five o'clock,
                        I'll go and tell her there's a poor boy got his britches
                        burned up in a fire, and how he's waitin' out in the
                        stable for some, and I'll tell her I promised him. Well,
                        she'll give me a pair I wore for summer; honest she will, and you
                        can put 'em on as quick as anything."
                    "There, Herman," said Sam; "now you're
                        all right again!"
                    "Who all right?" Herman complained.
                        "I like feel sump 'm' roun' my laigs
                        befo' no five o'clock!"
                    "Well, you're sure to get 'em by then,"
                        Penrod promised. "It ain't winter yet, Herman. Come on and
                        help saw these laths for the bars, Herman, and Sam and I'll nail
                        'em on It ain't long till five o'clock, Herman,
                        and then you'll just feel fine!"
                    Herman was not convinced, but he found himself at a disadvantage in the
                        argument. The question at issue seemed a vital one to himand yet his two
                        opponents evidently considered it of minor importance. Obviously, they felt
                        that the promise for five o'clock had settled the whole matter
                        conclusively, but to Herman this did not appear to be the fact. However, he
                        helplessly suffered himself to be cajoled back into carpentry, though he was
                             extremely ill at ease and talked a great
                        deal of his misfortune. He shivered and grumbled, and, by his passionate
                        urgings, compelled Penrod to go into the house so many times to see what
                        time it was by the kitchen clock that both his companions almost lost
                        patience with him.
                    "There!" said Penrod, returning from performing this errand
                        for the fourth time. "It's twenty minutes after three, and
                        I'm not goin' in to look at that ole clock again if I haf
                        to die for it! I never heard anybody make such a fuss in my life, and
                        I'm gettin' tired of it. Must think we want to be all
                        night fixin' this cage for our panther! If you ask me to go and see
                        what time it is again, Herman, I'm a-goin' to take back
                        about askin' mamma at five o'clock, and then where'll you be?"
                    "Well, it seem like mighty long aft'noon to me,"
                        Herman sighed. "I jes' like to know what time it is gettin' to be now!"
                    "Look out!' Penrod warned him. "You heard what I
                        was just tellin' you about how I'd take back"
                    "Nemmine," Herman said hurriedly. "I
                        wasn' astin' you. I jes' sayin'
                        sump'm' kind o' to myse'f
                        like."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    CAMERA WORK IN THE JUNGLE
                    
                        THE completed cage, with Gipsy behind the bars, framed a
                        spectacle sufficiently thrilling and panther-like. Gipsy raved,
                        "spat," struck virulently at taunting fingers, turned on
                        his wailing siren for minutes at a time, and he gave his imitation of a
                        dromedary almost continuously, These phenomena could be intensified in
                        picturesqueness, the boys discovered, by rocking the cage a little, tapping
                        it with a hammer, or raking the bars with a stick. Altogether, Gipsy was
                        having a lively afternoon.
                    There came a vigorous rapping on the alley door of the stable, and Verman was
                        admitted.
                    "Yay, Verman!" cried Sam Williams. "Come and look
                        at our good ole panther!"
                    Another curiosity, however, claimed Verman's attention. His eyes
                        opened wide, and he pointed at Herman's legs.
                    "Wha' ma' oo? Mammy hay oo hip ap
                        hoe-woob."
                    
                    "Mammy tell me git 'at
                        stove-wood?" Herman interpreted resentfully.
                        "How'm I go' git 'at stove-wood when my
                        britches down bottom 'at cistern, I like you answer me please? You shet 'at do' behime you!"
                    Verman complied, and again pointing to his brother's legs, requested
                        to be enlightened.
                    "Ain' I tole you once they down bottom 'at
                        cistern?" Herman shouted, much exasperated. "You
                        wan' know how come so, you ast Sam Williams. He say thishere cat
                        tuck an' th'owed 'em down there!"
                    Sam, who was busy rocking the cage, remained cheerfully absorbed in that
                        occupation.
                    "Come look at our good ole panther, Verman," he called.
                        "I'll get this circus-cage rockin' right good,
                        an' then"
                    "Wait a minute," said Penrod; "I got sumpthing I
                        got to think about. Quit rockin' it! I guess I got a right to think
                        about sumpthing without havin' to go deaf, haven't
                        I?"
                    Having obtained the quiet so plaintively requested, he knit his brow and
                        gazed intently upon Verman, then upon Herman, then upon Gipsy. Evidently his
                        idea was fermenting. He broke the silence with a shout.
                    
                    
                        "I know, Sam! I know what we'll do now! I just thought of it, and it's
                        goin' to be sumpthing I bet there aren't any other boys in
                        this town could do, because where would they get any good ole panther like
                        we got, and Herman and Verman? And they'd haf to have a dog, tooand
                        we got our good ole Dukie, I guess. I bet we have the greatest ole time this
                        afternoon we ever had in our lives!"
                    His enthusiasm roused the warm interest of Sam and Verman, though Herman,
                        remaining cold and suspicious, asked for details.
                    "An' I like to hear if it's
                        sump'm'," he concluded, "what's
                        go' git me my britches back outen 'at cistern!"
                    "Well, it ain't exackly that," said Penrod.
                        "It's different from that. What I'm
                        thinkin' about, well, for us to have it the way it ought to be,
                        so's you and Verman would look like nativeswell, Verman ought to
                        take off his britches, too."
                    "Mo!" said Verman, shaking his head violently.
                        "Mo!"
                    "Well, wait a minute, can't you?" Sam Williams
                        said. "Give Penrod a chance to say what he wants to, first,
                        can't you? Go on, Penrod."
                    "Well, you know, Sam," said Penrod, turning to  this sympathetic auditor; "you
                        remember that movin'-pitcher show we went to,
                        'Fortygraphing Wild Animals in the Jungle.' Well, Herman
                        wouldn't have to do a thing more to look like those natives we saw
                        that the man called the 'beaters.' They were dressed just
                        about like the way he is now, and if Verman"
                    
                        "Mo!" said Verman.
                    "Oh, wait a minute, Verman!" Sam
                        entreated. "Go on, Penrod."
                    "Well, we can make a mighty good jungle up in the loft,"
                        Penrod continued eagerly. "We can take that ole dead tree
                        that's out in the alley and some branches, and I bet we could have
                        the best jungle you ever saw. And then we'd fix up a kind of place
                        in there for our panther, only, of course, we'd haf to keep him in
                        the cage so's he wouldn't run away, but we'd
                        pretend he was loose. And then you remember how they did with that calf?
                        Well, we'd have Duke for the tied-up calf for the panther to come
                        out and jump on, so they could fortygraph him. Herman can be the chief
                        beater, and we'll let Verman be the ether beaters, and
                        I'll"
                    "Yay!" shouted Sam Williams. "I'll be the
                        fortygraph man!'
                    
                    "No," said Penrod; "you be the one with the gun
                        that guards the fortygraph man, because I'm the fortygraph man
                        already. You can fix up a mighty good gun with this carpenter shop, Sam.
                        We'll make spears for our good ole beaters, too, and I'm
                        goin' to make me a camera out o' that little starch-box
                        and a bakin'-powder can that's goin' to be a
                        mighty good ole camera. We can do lots more things"
                    "Yay!" Sam cried. "Let's get
                        started!" He paused. "Wait a minute, Penrod. Verman says
                        he won't"
                    "Well, he's got to!" said Penrod.
                    "I momp!" Verman insisted, almost distinctly.
                    They began to argue with him, but, for a time, Verman remained firm. They
                        upheld the value of dramatic consistency, declaring that a beater dressed as
                        completely as he was "wouldn't look like anything at
                        all." He would "spoil the whole biznuss," they
                        said, and they praised Herman for the faithful accuracy of his costume. They
                        also insisted that the garment in question was much too large for Verman,
                        anyway, having been so recently worn by Herman and turned over to Verman
                        with insufficient alteration, and they expressed surprise  that "anybody with any
                        sense" should make such a point of clinging to a misfit.
                    Herman sided against his brother in this controversy, perhaps because a
                        certain loneliness, of which he was conscious, might be assuaged by the
                        company of another trouserless personor it may be that his motive was more
                        sombre. Possibly he remembered that Verman's trousers were his own
                        former property and might fit him in case the promise for five
                        o'clock turned out badly. At all events, Verman finally yielded
                        under great pressure, and consented to appear in the proper costume of the
                        multitude of beaters it now became his duty to personify.
                    Shouting, the boys dispersed to begin the preparation of their jungle scene.
                        Sam and Penrod went for branches and the dead tree, while Herman and Verman
                        carried the panther in his cage to the loft, where the first thing that
                        Verman did was to hang his trousers on a nail in a
                        conspi-ous and accessible spot near the doorway. And with
                        the arrival of Penrod and Sam, panting and dragging no inconsiderable
                        thicket after them, the coloured brethren began to take a livelier interest
                        in things. Indeed, when Penrod, a little later, placed in their hands two
                        spears, pointed with tin, their good spirits 
                        were entirely restored, and they even began to take a pride in being
                        properly uncostumed beaters.
                    Sam's gun and Penrod's camera were entirely satisfactory,
                        especially the latter. The camera was so attractive, in fact, that the
                        hunter and the chief beater and all the other beaters immediately resigned
                        and insisted upon being photographers. Each had to be given a
                        "turn" before the jungle project could be resumed.
                    "Now, for goodnesses' sakes," said Penrod, taking
                        the camera from Verman, "I hope you're done, so's
                        we can get started doin' something like we ought to! We got to have
                        Duke for a tied-up calf. We'll have to bring him and tie him out
                        here in front the jungle, and then the panther'll come out and jump
                        on him. Wait, and I'll go bring him."
                    Departing upon this errand, Penrod found Duke enjoying the declining rays of
                        the sun in the front yard.
                    "Hyuh, Duke!" called his master, in an indulgent tone.
                        "Come on, good ole Dukie! Come along!"
                    Duke rose conscientious y and followed him.
                    "I got him, men!" Penrod called from the stairway.
                        "I got our good ole calf all ready to be tied up. Here he
                        is!" And he appeared in the  doorway
                        with the unsuspecting little dog beside him.
                    Gipsy, who had been silent for some moments, instantly raised his banshee
                        battlecry, and Duke yelped in horror. Penrod made a wild effort to hold him,
                        but Duke was not to be detained. Unnatural strength and activity came to him
                        in his delirium, and, for the second or two that the struggle lasted, his
                        movements were too rapid for the eyes of the spectators to followmerely a
                        whirl and blur in the air could be seen. Then followed a sound of violent
                        scramblingand Penrod sprawled alone at the top of the stairs.
                    "Well, why'n't you come and help me?" he
                        demanded indignantly. "I couldn't get him back now if I
                        was to try a million years!"
                    "What we goin' to do about it?" Sam asked.
                    Penrod rose and dusted his knees. "We got to get along without any
                        tied-up calfthat's certain! But I got to take those fortygraphs some way or other!"
                    "Me an' Verman aw ready begin 'at
                        beatin'," Herman suggested. "You tole us we the
                        beaters."
                    "Well, wait a minute," said Penrod, whose feeling for
                        realism in drama was always alert. "I want to get a mighty good
                        pitcher o' that ole panther this 
                        time." As he spoke, he threw open the wide door intended for the
                        delivery of hay into the loft from the alley below. "Now, bring the
                        cage over here by this door so's I can get a better light;
                        it's gettin' kind of dark over where the jungle is.
                        We'll pretend there isn't any cage there, and soon as I
                        get him fortygraphed, I'll holler, 'Shoot, men!'
                        Then you must shoot, Samand Herman, you and Verman must hammer on the cage
                        with your spears, and holler: 'Hoo! Hoo!' and pretend
                        you're spearin' him."
                    "Well, we aw ready!" said Herman. "Hoo!
                        Hoo!"
                    "Wait a minute," Penrod interposed, frowningly surveying
                        the cage. "I got to squat too much to get my camera fixed
                        right." He assumed various solemn poses, to be interpreted as those
                        of a photographer studying his subject. "No," he said
                        finally; "it won't take good that way."
                    "My goo'ness!" Herman exclaimed. "When we
                        goin' begin 'at beatin'?"
                    "Here!" Apparently Penrod had solved a weighty problem.
                        "Bring that busted ole kitchen chair, and set the panther up on it.
                        There! That's the ticket! This way,
                        it'll make a mighty good pitcher!"  He turned to Sam importantly. "Well, Jim, is the
                        chief and all his beaters here?"
                    "Yes, Bill; all here," Sam responded, with an air of
                        loyalty.
                    "Well, then, I guess we're ready," said Penrod, in
                        his deepest voice. "Beat, men."
                    Herman and Verman were anxious to beat. They set up the loudest uproar of
                        which they were capable. "Hoo! Hoo! Hoo!" they bellowed,
                        flailing the branches with their spears and stamping heavily upon the floor.
                        Sam, carried away by the lan of the performance, was
                        unable to resist joining them. "Hoo! Hoo! Hoo!" he
                        shouted. "Hoo! Hoo! Hoo!" And as the dust rose from the
                        floor to their stamping, the three of them produced such a din and
                        hoo-hooing as could be made by nothing on earth except boys.
                    "Back, men!" Penrod called, raising his voice to the
                        utmost. "Back for your lives. The pa-a-anther!
                        Now I'm takin' his pitcher. Click, click! Shoot, men;
                        shoot!"
                    "Bing! Bing!" shouted Sam, levelling his gun at the cage,
                        while Herman and Verman hammered upon it, and Gipsy cursed boys, the world,
                        and the day he was born. "Bing! Bing! Bing!"
                    
                    "You missed him!" screamed Penrod. "Give me that gun!" And snatching it from
                        Sam's unwilling hand, he levelled it at the cage.
                    "BING!" he roared.
                    Simultaneously there was the sound of another report, but this was an actual
                        one and may best be symbolized by the statement that it was a whack. The
                        recipient was Herman, and, outrageously surprised and pained, he turned to
                        find himself face to face with a heavily built coloured woman who had
                        recently ascended the stairs and approached the preoccupied hunters from the
                        rear. In her hand was a lath, and, even as Herman turned, it was again
                        wielded, this time upon Verman.
                    
                        "Mammy!"
                    
                    "Yes; you bettuh holler, 'Mammy!'" she
                        panted. "My goo'ness, if yo' pappy don'
                        lam you to-night! Ain' you got no mo' sense 'an
                        to let white boys 'suade you play you Affikin heathums? Whah you
                        britches?"
                    "Yonnuh Verman's," quavered Herman.
                    "Whah y'own?"
                    Choking, Herman answered bravely:
                    "'At ole cat tuck an' th'owed
                        'em down cistern!" Exasperated almost beyond endurance,
                        she lifted  the lath again. But unfortunately,
                        in order to obtain a better field of action, she moved backward a little,
                        coming in contact with the bars of the cage, a circumstance which she
                        overlooked. More un-fortunately still, the longing of the captive to express
                        his feelings was such that he would have welcomed the opportunity to attack
                        an elephant. He had been striking and scratching at inanimate things and at
                        boys out of reach for the past hour, but here at last was his opportunity.
                        He made the most of it.
                    "I learn you tell me cat th'owedooooh!"
                    
                    The coloured woman leaped into the air like an athlete, and, turning with a
                        swiftness astounding in one of her weight, beheld the semaphoric arm of
                        Gipsy again extended between the bars and hopefully reaching for her. Beside
                        herself, she lifted her right foot briskly from the ground, and allowed the
                        sole of her shoe to come in contact with Gipsy's cage.
                    The cage moved from the tottering chair beneath it. It passed through the
                        yawning hay-door and fell resoundingly to the alley below, whereas Penrod
                        and Sam, with cries of dismay, rushed to the door and looked downit burst
                        asunder and disgorged  a large, bruised, and
                        chastened cat. Gipsy paused and bent one strange look upon the broken box.
                        Then he shook his head and departed up the alley, the two boys watching him
                        till he was out of sight.
                    Before they turned, a harrowing procession issued from the carriage-house
                        doors beneath them. Herman came first, hurriedly completing a temporary
                        security in Verman's trousers. Verman followed, after a little
                        reluctance, which departed coincidentally with some inspiriting words from
                        the rear. He crossed the alley hastily, and his mammy stalked behind, using
                        constant eloquence and a frequent lath. They went into the small house
                        across the way and closed the door.
                    Then Sam turned to Penrod.
                    "Penrod," he said thoughtfully, "was it on account
                        of fortygraphing in the jungle you wanted to keep that cat?"
                    "No; that was a mighty fine-blooded cat. We'd of made some
                        money."
                    Sam jeered.
                    "You mean when we'd sell tickets to look at it in its
                        cage?"
                    Penrod shook his head, and if Gipsy could have 
                        overheard and understood his reply, that atrabilious spirit, almost broken
                        by the events of the day, might have considered this last blow the most
                        overwhelming of all.
                    "No," said Penrod; "when she had
                        kittens."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    A MODEL LETTER TO A FRIEND
                    
                        ON MONDAY morning Penrod's faith in the coming of
                        another Saturday was flaccid and lustreless. Those Japanese lovers who were
                        promised a reunion after ten thousand years in separate hells were brighter
                        with hope than he was. On Monday Penrod was virtually an agnostic.
                    Nowhere upon his shining morning face could have been read any eager
                        anticipation of useful knowledge. Of course he had been told that school was
                        for his own good; in fact, he had been told and told and told, but the words
                        conveying this information, meaningless at first, assumed, with each
                        repetition, more and more the character of dull and unsolicited insult.
                    He was wholly unable to imagine circumstances, present or future, under which
                        any of the instruction and training he was now receiving could be of the
                        slightest possible use or benefit to himself; and when he was informed that
                        such circumstances would frequently  arise in
                        his later life, he but felt the slur upon his coming manhood and its power
                        to prevent any such unpleasantness.
                    If it were possible to place a romantic young Broadway actor and athlete
                        under hushing supervision for six hours a day, compelling him to bend his
                        unremittent attention upon the city directory of Sheboygan, Wisconsin, he
                        could scarce be expected to respond genially to frequent statements that the
                        compulsion was all for his own good. On the contrary, it might be reasonable
                        to conceive his response as taking the form of action, which is precisely
                        the form that Penrod's smouldering impulse yearned to take.
                    To Penrod school was merely a state of confinement, envenomed by mathematics.
                        For interminable periods he was forced to listen to information concerning
                        matters about which he had no curiosity whatever; and he had to read over
                        and over the dullest passages in books that bored him into stupors, while
                        always there overhung the preposterous task of improvising plausible
                        evasions to conceal the fact that he did not know what he had no wish to
                        know. Likewise, he must always be prepared to avoid incriminating replies to
                        questions which he  felt nobody had a real and
                        natural right to ask him. And when his gorge rose and his inwards revolted,
                        the hours became a series of ignoble misadventures and petty disgraces
                        strikingly lacking in privacy.
                    It was usually upon Wednesday that his sufferings culminated; the nervous
                        strength accumulated during the holiday hours at the end of the week would
                        carry him through Monday and Tuesday, but by Wednesday it seemed ultimately
                        proven that the next Saturday actually never was coming,
                        "this time," and the strained spirit gave way. Wednesday
                        was the day averaging highest in Penrod's list of absences, but the
                        time came when he felt that the advantages attendant upon his Wednesday
                        "sick headache" did not compensate for its inconveniences.
                    For one thing, this illness had become so symmetrically recurrent that even
                        the cook felt that he was pushing it too far, and the liveliness of her
                        expression, when he was able to leave his couch and take the air in the
                        backyard at about ten o'clock, became more disagreeable to him with
                        each convalescence. There visibly increased, too, about the whole household,
                        an atmosphere of uncongeniality and suspicion so pronounced that every
                        successive illness was necessarily  more
                        severe, and at last the patient felt obliged to remain bedded until almost
                        eleven, from time to time giving forth pathetic little sounds eloquent of
                        anguish triumphing over Stoic endurance, yet lacking a certain conviction of
                        utterance.
                    Finally, his father enacted, and his mother applied, a new and distinctly
                        special bit of legislation, explaining it with simple candor to the
                        prospective beneficiary.
                    "Whenever you really are sick," they
                        said, "you can go out and play as soon as you're wellthat
                        is, if it happens on Saturday. But when you're sick on a
                        school-day, you'll stay in bed till the next morning. This is going
                        to do you good, Penrod."
                    Physically, their opinion appeared to be affirmed, for Wednesday after
                        Wednesday passed without any recurrence of the attack, but the spiritual
                        strain may have been damaging. And it should be added that if
                        Penrod's higher nature did suffer from the strain, he was not
                        unique. For, confirming the effect of Wednesday upon boys in general, it is
                        probable that, if full statistics concerning cats were available, they would
                        show that cats dread Wednesdays, and that their fear is shared by other
                        animals, and would be shared, to an extent by windows, if windows possessed
                             nervous systems. Nor must this probable
                        apprehension on the part of cats and the like be thought mere superstition.
                        Cats have superstitions, it is true, but certain actions inspired by the
                        sight of a boy with a missile in his hand are better evidence of the
                        workings of logic upon a practical nature than of faith in the supernatural.
                    Moreover, the attention of family physicians and specialists should be drawn
                        to these significant though obscure phenomena; for the suffering of cats is
                        a barometer of the nerve-pressure of boys, and it may be accepted as
                        sufficiently established that Wednesdayafter school-hoursis the worst time
                        for cats.
                    After the promulgation of that parental edict, "You'll stay
                        in bed till the next morning," four weeks went by unflawed by a
                        single absence from the field of duty, but, when the fifth Wednesday came,
                        Penrod held sore debate within himself before he finally rose. In fact,
                        after rising, and while actually engaged with his toilet, he tentatively
                        emitted the series of the little moans that was his wonted preliminary to a
                        quiet holiday at home; and the sound was heard (as intended) by Mr.
                        Schofield, who was passing Penrod's door on his way to breakfast.
                    "All right!" said the father, making use
                        of peculiar  and unnecessary emphasis.
                        "Stay in bed till tomorrow morning. Castor-oil, this time,
                        too."
                    Penrod had not hoped much for his experiment; nevertheless, his rebellious
                        blood was sensibly inflamed by the failure, and he accompanied his dressing
                        with a low murmuringapparently a bitter dialogue between himself and some
                        unknown but powerful patron.
                    Thus he muttered:
                    "Well, they better not!" "Well,
                        what can I do about it?" "Well, I'd show 'em!" "Well,
                        I will show 'em!" "Well, you
                            ought to show 'em; that's the way
                            I do! I just shake 'em around, and say,
                        'Here! I guess you don't know who you're
                        talkin' to, that way! You better look out!'"
                        "Well, that's the way I'm
                        goin' to do!" "Well, go on and do it, then!" "Well, I am
                        goin'"
                    The door of the next room was slightly ajar; now it swung wide, and Margaret
                        appeared.
                    "Penrod, what on earth are you talking about?"
                    "Nothin'. None o' your"
                    "Well, hurry to breakfast, then; it's getting
                        late."
                    Lightly she went, humming a tune, leaving the door of her room open; and the
                        eyes of Penrod, as he donned his jacket, chanced to fall upon her desk  where she had thoughtlessly left a lettera
                        private missive just begun, and intended solely for the eyes of Mr. Robert
                        Williams, a senior at a far university.
                    In such a fashion is coincidence the architect of misfortune.
                        Penrod's class in English composition had been instructed, the
                        previous day, to concoct at home and bring to class on Wednesday morning,
                        "a model letter to a friend on some subject of general
                        interest." Penalty for omission to perform this simple task was
                        definite; whosoever brought no letter would inevitably be "kept
                        in" after school, that afternoon, until the letter was written, and
                        it was precisely a premonition of this misfortune which had prompted Penrod
                        to attempt his experimental moaning upon his father, for, alas! he had
                        equipped himself with no model letter, nor any letter whatever.
                    In stress of this kind, a boy's creed is that anything is worth a
                        try; but his eye for details is poor. He sees the future too sweepingly and
                        too much as he would have it, seldom providing against inconsistencies of
                        evidence which may damage him. For instance, there is a well-known case of
                        two brothers who exhibited to their parents, with pathetic confidence,
                        several imported dried herring on a string, as a proof that the afternoon
                        had been spent, not at a forbidden  circus,
                        but with hook and line upon the banks of a neighbouring brook.
                    So with Penrod. He had vital need of a letter, and there, before his eyes,
                        upon Margaret's desk, was apparently the precise thing he needed!
                    From below rose the voice of his mother urging him to the breakfast-table,
                        warning him that he stood in danger of tardiness at school; he was pressed
                        for time, and acted upon an inspiration which failed to prompt him even to
                        read the letter.
                    Hurriedly he wrote "Dear freind" at the top of the page
                        Margaret had partially filled. Then he signed himself, "Yours
                        respectfuly, Penrod Scho-field" at the bottom, and enclosed the
                        missive within a battered volume entitled, "Principles of English
                        Composition." With that and other books compacted by a strap, he
                        descended to a breakfast somewhat oppressive but undarkened by any
                        misgivings concerning a "letter to a friend on some subject of
                        general interest." He felt that a difficulty had been encountered
                        and satisfactorily disposed of; the matter could now be dismissed from his
                        mind. He had plenty of other difficulties to take its place.
                    No; he had no misgivings, nor was he assailed by anything unpleasant in that
                        line, even when the  hour struck for the class
                        in English composition. If he had been two or three years older, experience
                        might have warned him to take at least the precaution of copying his
                        offering, so that it would appear in his own handwriting when he
                        "handed it in," but Penrod had not even glanced at it.
                    "I think," said Miss Spence, "I will ask several
                        of you to read your letters aloud before you hand them in. Clara Raypole,
                        you may read yours."
                    Penrod was bored but otherwise comfortable; he had no apprehension that he
                        might be included in the "several." especially as Miss
                        Spence's beginning with Clara Raypole, a star performer, indicated
                        that her selection of readers would be made from the conscientious and
                        proficient division at the head of the class. He listened stoically to the
                        beginning of the first letter, though he was conscious of a dull resentment,
                        inspired mainly by the perfect complacency of Miss Raypole's voice.
                    "'Dear Cousin Sadie,'" she began
                        smoothly, "'I thought I would write you to-day on some
                        subject of general interest, and so I thought I would tell you about the
                        subject of our court-house. It is a very fine building situated in the
                        centre of the city, and a visit to the building after school hours well  repays for the visit. Upon entrance we find
                        upon our left the office of the county clerk and upon our right a number of
                        windows affording a view of the street. And so we proceed, finding on both
                        sides much of general interest. The building was begun in 1886 A. D. and it
                        was through in 1887 A. D. It is four stories high and made of stone, pressed
                        brick, wood, and tiles, with a tower, or cupola, one hundred and
                        twenty-seven feet seven inches from the ground. Among other subjects of
                        general interest told by the janitor, we learn that the architect of the
                        building was a man named Flanner, and the foundations extend fifteen feet
                        five inches under the ground'"
                    Penrod was unable to fix his attention upon these statistics; he began
                        moodily to twist a button of his jacket and to concentrate a new-born and
                        obscure but lasting hatred upon the court-house. Miss Raypole's
                        glib voice continued to press upon his ears, but, by keeping his eyes fixed
                        upon the twisting button he had accomplished a kind of self-hypnosis, or
                        mental anaesthesia, and was but dimly aware of what went on about him.
                    The court-house was finally exhausted by its visitor, who resumed her seat
                        and submitted with  beamish grace to praise.
                        Then Miss Spence said, in a favourable manner:
                    "Georgie Bassett, you may read your letter next."
                    The neat Georgie rose, nothing loath, and began:
                    "'Dear Teacher'"
                    There was a slight titter, which Miss Spence suppressed. Georgie was not at
                        all discomfited.
                    "'My mother says,"' he continued, reading
                        his manuscript, "'we should treat our teacher as a friend,
                        and so I will write you a
                        letter."'
                    This penetrated Penrod's trance, and he lifted his eyes to fix them
                        upon the back of Georgie Bassett's head in a long and inscrutable
                        stare. It was inscrutable, and yet if Georgie had been sensitive to thought
                        waves, it is probable that he would have uttered a loud shriek, but he
                        remained placidly unaware, continuing:
                    ' "I thought I would write you about a subject of general
                        interest, and so I will write you about the flowers. There are many kinds of
                        flowers, spring flowers, and summer flowers, and autumn flowers, but no
                        winter flowers. Wild flowers grow in the woods, and it is nice to hunt them
                        in springtime, and we must remember to give some to the poor  and hospitals, also. Flowers can be made to
                        grow in flower-beds and placed in vases in houses. There are many names for
                        flowers, but I call them "nature's
                        ornaments""'
                    Penrod's gaze had relaxed, drooped to his button again, and his
                        lethargy was renewed. The outer world grew vaguer; voices seemed to drone at
                        a distance; sluggish time passed heavilybut some of it did pass.
                    "Penrod!"
                    Miss Spence's searching eye had taken note of the bent head and the
                        twisting button. She found it necessary to speak again.
                    "Penrod Schofield!"
                    He came languidly to life.
                    "Ma'am?"
                    "You may read your letter."
                    "Yes'm."
                    And he began to paw clumsily among his books, whereupon Miss
                        Spence's glance fired with suspicion.
                    "Have you prepared one?" she demanded.
                    "Yes'm," said Penrod dreamily.
                    "But you're going to find you forgot to bring it,
                        aren't you?"
                    
                    "I got it," said Penrod, discovering the paper in his
                        "Principles of English Composition."
                    "Well, we'll listen to what you've found time to
                        prepare," she said, adding coldly, "for once!"
                    The frankest pessimism concerning Penrod permeated the whole room; even the
                        eyes of those whose letters had not met with favour turned upon him with
                        obvious assurance that here was every prospect of a performance which would,
                        by comparison, lend a measure of credit to the worst preceding it. But
                        Penrod was unaffected by the general gaze; he rose, still blinking from his
                        lethargy, and in no true sense wholly alive.
                    He had one idea: to read as rapidly as possible, so as to be done with the
                        task, and he began in a high-pitched monotone, reading with a blind mind and
                        no sense of the significance of the words.
                    "'Dear friend,'" he declaimed.
                        "'You call me beautiful, but I am not really beautiful,
                        and there are times when I doubt if I am even pretty, though perhaps my hair
                        is beautiful, and if it is true that my eyes are like blue stars in
                        heaven'"
                    Simultaneously he lost his breath and there burst upon him a perception of
                        the results to which he 
                        
                            "'Dear friend,' he declaimed,
                                'you call me beautiful, but I am not really
                                beautiful'"
                        
                         was being committed by this calamitous
                        reading. And also simultaneous was the outbreak of the class into
                        cachinnations of delight, severely repressed by the perplexed but indignant
                        Miss Spence.
                    "Go on!" she commanded grimly, when she had restored order.
                    "Ma'am?" he gulped, looking wretchedly upon the
                        rosy faces all about him.
                    "Go on with the description of yourself," she said.
                        "We'd like to hear some more about your eyes being like
                        blue stars in heaven."
                    Here many of Penrod's little comrades were forced to clasp their
                        faces tightly in both hands' and his dismayed gaze, in refuge,
                        sought the treacherous paper in his hand.
                    What it beheld there was horrible.
                    "Proceed!" said Miss Spence.
                    "'Ioften think,'" he faltered,
                        "'and a-a tree-more thu-thrills my bein' when I
                            recall your last words to me that lastthat
                        lastthat'"
                    
                        "Go on!"
                    
                    "'That last evening in the moonlight when
                        youyouyou'"
                    "Penrod," Miss Spence said dangerously, "you go
                        on, and stop that stammering."
                    
                    "'Youyou said you would wait forfor years
                        totototo'"
                    
                        "Penrod!"
                    
                    "'To win me!'" the miserable Penrod
                        managed to gasp. "'I should not have prepremittedpermitted
                        you to speak so until we have ourour parents' con-consent; but oh,
                        how sweet it'" He exhaled a sigh of agony, and then
                        concluded briskly, "'Yours respectfully, Penrod
                        Schofield.'"
                    But Miss Spence had at last divined something, for she knew the Schofield
                        family.
                    "Bring me that letter!" she said.
                    And the scarlet boy passed forward between rows of mystified but immoderately
                        uplifted children.
                    Miss Spence herself grew rather pink as she examined the missive, and the
                        intensity with which she afterward extended her examination to cover the
                        complete field of Penrod Schofield caused him to find a remote centre of
                        interest whereon to rest his embarrassed gaze. She let him stand before her
                        throughout a silence, equalled, perhaps, by the tenser pauses during trials
                        for murder, and then, containing herself, she sweepingly gestured him to the
                        pillorya chair upon the platform, facing the school.
                    
                    Here he suffered for the unusual term of an hour, with many jocular and
                        cunning eyes constantly upon him; and, when he was released at noon, horrid
                        shouts and shrieks pursued him every step of his homeward way. For his
                        laughter-loving little schoolmates spared him notneither boy nor girl.
                    "Yay, Penrod!" they shouted. "How's your
                        beautiful hair?" And, "Hi, Penrod! When you goin'
                        to get your parents' consent?" And, "Say, blue
                        stars in heaven, how's your beautiful eyes?" And,
                        "Say, Penrod, how's your tree-mores?"
                        "Does your tree-mores thrill your bein', Penrod?"
                        And many other facetious inquiries, hard to bear in public.
                    And when he reached the temporary shelter of his home, he experienced no
                        relief upon finding that Margaret was out for lunch. He was as deeply
                        embittered toward her as toward any other, and, considering her largely
                        responsible for his misfortune, he would have welcomed an opportunity to
                        show her what he thought of her.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    WEDNESDAY MADNESS
                    
                        HOW long he was "kept in "after school
                        that afternoon is not a matter of record, but it was long. Before he finally
                        appeared upon the street, he had composed an ample letter on a subject of
                        general interest, namely "School Life," under the
                        supervision of Miss Spence; he had also received some scorching admonitions
                        in respect to honourable behaviour regarding other people's
                        letters; and Margaret's had been returned to him with severe
                        instructions to bear it straight to the original owner accompanied by full
                        confession and apology. As a measure of insurance that these things be done,
                        Miss Spence stated definitely her intention to hold a conversation by
                        telephone with Margaret that evening. Altogether, the day had been unusually
                        awful, even for Wednesday, and Penrod left the school-house with the heart
                        of an anarchist throbbing in his hot bosom. It were more accurate, indeed,
                        to liken him to the anarchist's characteristic weapon; for,  as Penrod came out to the street he was, in
                        all inward respects, a bomb, loaded and ticking.
                    He walked moodily, with a visible aspect of soreness. A murmurous sound was
                        thick about his head, wherefore it is to be surmised that he communed with
                        his familiar, and one vehement, oftrepeated phrase beat like a tocsin of
                        revolt upon the air: "Daw-gone 'em!"
                    He meant everybodythe universe.
                    Particularly included, evidently, was a sparrow, offensively cheerful upon a
                        lamp-post. This self-centred little bird allowed a pebble to pass overhead
                        and remained unconcerned, but, a moment later, feeling a jar beneath his
                        feet, and hearing the tinkle of falling glass, he decided to leave.
                        Similarly, and at the same instant, Penrod made the same decision, and the
                        sparrow in flight took note of a boy likewise in flight.
                    The boy disappeared into the nearest alley and emerged therefrom, breathless,
                        in the peaceful vicinity of his own home. He entered the house, clumped
                        upstairs and down, discovered Margaret reading a book in the library, and
                        flung the accursed letter toward her with loathing.
                    "You can take the old thing," he said bitterly. "I don't want it!"
                    
                    And before she was able to reply, he was out of the room. The next moment he
                        was out of the house.
                    "Daw-gone 'em!" he said.
                    And then, across the street, his soured eye fell upon his true comrade and
                        best friend leaning against a picket fence and holding desultory converse
                        with Mabel Rorebeck, an attractive member of the Friday Afternoon Dancing
                        Class, that hated organization of which Sam and Penrod were both members.
                        Mabel was a shy little girl, but Penrod had a vague understanding that Sam
                        considered her two brown pigtails beautiful.
                    Howbeit, Sam had never told his love; he was, in fact, sensitive about it.
                        This meeting with the lady was by chance, and although it afforded exquisite
                        moments, his heart was beating in an unaccustomed manner, and he was
                        suffering from embarrassment, being at a loss, also, for subjects of
                        conversation. It is, indeed, no easy matter to chat easily with a person,
                        however lovely and beloved, who keeps her face turned the other way,
                        maintains one foot in rapid and continuous motion through an arc seemingly
                        perilous to her equilibrium, and confines her responses, both affirmative
                        and negative, to "Uh-huh."
                    Altogether, Sam was sufficiently nervous without  any help from Penrod, and it was with pure horror that he heard his own
                        name and Mabel's shrieked upon the ambient air with viperish
                        insinuation.
                    "Sam-my and May-bul! Oh, oh!"
                    Sam started violently. Mabel ceased to swing her foot, and both,
                        encarnadined, looked up and down and everywhere for the invisible but
                        well-known owner of that voice. It came again, in taunting mockery:
                    
                        "Sammy's mad, and I am glad,
                        And I know what will please him:
                        A bottle o' wine to make him shine,
                        And Mabel Rorebeck to squeeze him!"
                    
                    "Fresh ole thing!" said Miss Rorebeck, becoming articulate.
                        And, unreasonably including Sam in her indignation, she tossed her head at
                        him with an unmistakable effect of scorn. She began to walk away.
                    "Well, Mabel," said Sam plaintively, following,
                        "it ain't my fault. I
                        didn't do anything. It's Penrod."
                    "I don't care," she began pettishly, when the
                        viperish voice was again lifted:
                    
                        "Oh, oh, oh!
                        Who's your beau?
                        Guess I know:
                        Mabel and Sammy, oh, oh, oh!
                        
                            I caught you!"
                    
                    
                    Then Mabel did one of those things which eternally perplex the slower sex.
                        She deliberately made a face, not at the tree behind which Penrod was
                        lurking, but at the innocent and heart-wrung Sam. "You
                        needn't come limpin' after me, Sam
                        Williams!" she said, though Sam was approaching upon two perfectly
                        sound legs. And then she ran away at the top of her speed.
                    "Run, nigger, run!" Penrod began inexcusably. But Sam cut
                        the persecutions short at this point. Stung to fury, he charged upon the
                        sheltering tree in the Schofields' yard.
                    Ordinarily, at such a juncture, Penrod would have fled, keeping his own
                        temper and increasing the heat of his pursuer's by back-flung
                        jeers. But this was Wednesday, and he was in no mood to run from Sam. He
                        stepped away from the tree, awaiting the onset.
                    "Well, what you goin' to do so much?" he said.
                    Sam did not pause to proffer the desired information. "Tcha
                        got'ny sense!" was the total extent of
                        his vocal preliminaries before flinging himself headlong upon the taunter;
                        and the two boys went to the ground together. Embracing, they rolled, they
                        pommelled, they hammered, they kicked. Alas, this was a fight.
                    
                    They rose, flailing awhile, then renewed their embrace, and, grunting,
                        bestowed themselves anew upon our ever too receptive Mother Earth. Once more
                        upon their feet, they beset each other sorely, dealing many great blows,
                        ofttimes upon the air, but with sufficient frequency upon resentful flesh.
                        Tears were jolted to the rims of eyes, but technically they did not weep.
                        "Got'ny sense," was repeated chokingly many, many
                        times; also, "Dern ole fool!" and, "I'll
                            show you!"
                    The peacemaker who appeared upon the animated scene was Penrod's
                        great-uncle Slocum. This elderly relative had come to call upon Mrs.
                        Schofield, and he was well upon his way to the front door when the
                        mutterings of war among some shrubberies near the fence caused him to
                        deflect his course in benevolent agitation.
                    "Boys! Boys! Shame, boys!" he said, but, as the originality
                        of these expressions did not prove striking enough to attract any great
                        attention from the combatants, he felt obliged to assume a share in the
                        proceedings. It was a share entailing greater activity than he had
                        anticipated, and, before he managed to separate the former friends, he
                        intercepted bodily an amount of violence to which he  was wholly unaccustomed. Additionally, his attire was
                        disarranged; his hat was no longer upon his head, and his temper was in a
                        bad way. In fact, as his hat flew off, he made use of words which, under
                        less extreme circumstances, would have caused both boys to feel a much
                        profounder interest than they did in great-uncle Slocum.
                    "I'll get you!" Sam babbled.
                        "Don't you ever dare to speak to me again, Penrod
                        Schofield, long as you live, or I'll whip you worse'n I
                        have this time!"
                    Penrod squawked. For the moment he was incapable of coherent speech, and
                        then, failing in a convulsive attempt to reach his enemy, his fury
                        culminated upon an innocent object which had never done him the slightest
                        harm. Great-uncle Slocum's hat lay upon the ground close by, and
                        Penrod was in that state of irritation which seeks an outlet too blindlyas
                        people say, he "had to do something!" He kicked great-uncle Slocum's hat
                        with such sweep and precision that it rose swiftly, and, breasting the
                        autumn breeze, passed over the fence and out into the street.
                    Great-uncle Slocum uttered a scream of anguish, and, immediately ceasing to
                        peacemake, ran forth to a more important rescue; but the conflict was not
                             renewed. Sanity had returned to Sam
                        Williams; he was awed by this colossal deed of Penrod's and filled
                        with horror at the thought that he might be held as accessory to it. Fleetly
                        he fled, pursued as far as the gate by the whole body of Penrod, and
                        thereafter by Penrod's voice alone.
                    "You better run! You wait till I catch you!
                        You'll see what you get next time! Don't you ever speak to
                        me again as long as you"
                    Here he paused abruptly, for great-uncle Slocum had recovered his hat and was
                        returning toward the gate. After one glance at great-uncle Slocum Penrod did
                        not linger to attempt any explanationthere are times when even a boy can see
                        that apologies would seem out of place. This one ran round the house to the
                        backyard.
                    Here he was enthusiastically greeted by Duke. "You get away from
                        me!" said Penrod hoarsely, and with terrible gestures he repulsed
                        the faithful animal, who retired philosophically to the stable, while his
                        master let himself out of the back gate. Penrod had decided to absent
                        himself from home for the time being.
                    The sky was gray, and there were hints of coming dusk in the air; it was an
                        hour suited to his  turbulent soul, and he
                        walked with a sombre swagger. "Ran like a
                        c'ardy-calf!" he sniffed, half aloud, alluding to the
                        haste of Sam Williams in departure. "All he is, ole
                        c'ardy-calf!"
                    Then, as he proceeded up the alley, a hated cry smote his ears: "Hi,
                        Penrod! How's your tree-mores?" And two jovial schoolboy
                        faces appeared above a high board fence. "How's your
                        beautiful hair, Penrod?" they vociferated. "When you
                        goin' to git your parents' consent? What makes you think
                        you're only pretty, ole blue stars?"
                    Penrod looked about feverishly for a missile, and could find none to his
                        hand, but the surface of the alley sufficed; he made mud balls and fiercely
                        bombarded the vociferous fence. Naturally, hostile mud balls presently
                        issued from behind this barricade; and thus a campaign developed which
                        offered a picture not unlike a cartoonist's sketch of a political
                        campaign, wherein this same material is used for the decoration of
                        opponents. But Penrod had been unwise; he was outnumbered, and the hostile
                        forces held the advantageous side of the fence.
                    Mud balls can be hard as well as soggy; some of those that reached Penrod
                        were of no inconsiderable weight and substance, and they made him grunt  despite himself. Finally, one, at close
                        range, struck him in the pit of the stomach, whereupon he clasped himself
                        about the middle silently, and executed some steps in seeming imitation of a
                        quaint Indian dance.
                    His plight being observed through a knothole, his enemies climbed upon the
                        fence and regarded him seriously.
                    "Aw, you're all right, ain't
                        you, old tree-mores?" inquired one.
                    "I'll show you!" bellowed
                        Penrod, recovering his breath; and he hurled a fat ballthoughtfully retained
                        in hand throughout his agonyto such effect that his interrogator disappeared
                        backward from the fence without having taken any initiative of his own in
                        the matter. His comrade impulsively joined him upon the ground, and the
                        battle continued.
                    Through the gathering dusk it went on. It waged but the hotter as darkness
                        made aim more difficultand still Penrod would not be driven from the field.
                        Panting, grunting, hoarse from returning insults, fighting on and on, an
                        indistinguishable figure in the gloom, he held the back alley against all
                        comers.
                    For such a combat darkness has one great advantage, but it has an equally
                        important disadvantage  the combatant cannot
                        see to aim; on the other hand, he cannot see to dodge. And all the while
                        Penrod was receiving two for one. He became heavy with mud. Plastered,
                        impressionistic, and sculpturesque, there was about him a quality of the
                        tragic, of the magnificent. He resembled a sombre masterpiece by Rodin. No
                        one could have been quite sure what he was meant for.
                    Dinner bells tinkled in houses. Then they were rung from kitchen doors.
                        Calling voices came urging from the distance, calling boys' names
                        into the darkness. They called, and a note of irritation seemed to mar their
                        beauty.
                    Then bells were rung againand the voices renewed appeals more urgent, much
                        more irritated. They called and called and called.
                    
                        Thud! went the mud balls. Thud! Thud! Blunk! "Oof!" said Penrod.
                    . . . Sam Williams, having dined with his family at their usual hour, seven,
                        slipped unostentatiously out of the kitchen door, as soon as he could, after
                        the conclusion of the meal, and quietly betook himself to the
                        Schofields' corner.
                    
                    Here he stationed himself where he could see all avenues of approach to the
                        house, and waited. Twenty minutes went by, and then Sam became suddenly
                        alert and attentive, for the arc-light revealed a small, grotesque figure
                        slowly approaching along the sidewalk. It was brown in colour, shaggy and
                        indefinite in form; it limped excessively, and paused to rub itself, and to
                        meditate.
                    Peculiar as the thing was, Sam had no doubt as to its identity. He advanced.
                    "'Lo, Penrod," he said cautiously, and with a
                        shade of formality.
                    Penrod leaned against the fence, and, lifting one leg, tested the knee-joint
                        by swinging his foot back and forth, a process evidently provocative of a
                        little pain. Then he rubbed the left side of his encrusted face, and,
                        opening his mouth to its whole capacity as an aperture, moved his lower jaw
                        slightly from side to side, thus triumphantly settling a question in his own
                        mind as to whether or no a suspected dislocation had taken place.
                    Having satisfied himself on these points, he examined both shins delicately
                        by the sense of touch, and carefully tested the capacities of his
                        neck-muscles to move his head in a wonted manner.
                    
                    Then he responded somewhat gruffly: "'Lo!"
                    "Where you been?" Sam said eagerly, his formality
                        vanishing.
                    "Havin' a mud-fight."
                    "I guess you did!" Sam exclaimed, in a low voice.
                        "What you goin' to tell your"
                    "Oh, nothin'."
                    "Your sister telephoned to our house to see if I knew where you
                        were," said Sam. "She told me if I saw you before you got
                        home to tell you sumpthing, but not to say anything about it. She said Miss
                        Spence had telephoned to her, but she said for me to tell
                        you it was all right about that letter, and she wasn't
                        goin' to tell your mother and father on you, so you
                        needn't say anything about it to 'em."
                    "All right," said Penrod indifferently.
                    "She says you're goin' to be in enough trouble
                        without that," Sam went on. "You're
                        goin' to catch fits about your Uncle Slocum's hat,
                        Penrod."
                    "Well, I guess I know it."
                    "And about not comin' home to dinner, too. Your mother
                        telephoned twice to mamma while we were eatin' to see if
                        you'd come in our house. And when 
                        they see youmy, but you're
                        goin' to get the dickens, Penrod!"
                    Penrod seemed, unimpressed, though he was well aware that Sam's
                        prophecy was no unreasonable one.
                    "Well, I guess I know it," he repeated casually. And he
                        moved slowly toward his own gate.
                    His friend looked after him curiouslythen, as the limping figure fumbled
                        clumsily with bruised fingers at the latch of the gate, there sounded a
                        little solicitude in Sam's voice.
                    "Say, Penrod, howhow do you feel?"
                    "What?"
                    "Do you feel pretty bad?"
                    "No," said Penrod, and, in spite of what awaited him beyond
                        the lighted portals just ahead, he spoke the truth. His nerves were rested,
                        and his soul was at peace. His Wednesday madness was over.
                    "No," said Penrod; "I feel bully!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    PENROD'S BUSY DAY
                    
                        ALTHOUGH the pressure had thus been relieved and Penrod
                        found peace with himself, nevertheless there were times during the rest of
                        that week when he felt a strong distaste for Margaret. His schoolmates
                        frequently reminded him of such phrases in her letter as they seemed least
                        able to forget, and for hours after each of these experiences he was unable
                        to comport himself with human courtesy when constrained (as at dinner) to
                        remain for any length of time in the same room with her. But by Sunday these
                        moods had seemed to pass; he attended church in her close company, and had
                        no thought of the troubles brought upon him by her correspondence with a
                        person who throughout remained unknown to him.
                    Penrod slumped far down in the pew with his knees against the back of that in
                        front, and he also languished to one side, so that the people sitting behind
                        were afforded a view of him consisting of a 
                        little hair and one bored ear. The sermona noble one, searching and
                        eloquentwas but a persistent sound in that ear, though, now and then,
                        Penrod's attention would be caught by some detached portion of a
                        sentence, when his mind would dwell dully upon the phrases for a little
                        whileand lapse into a torpor. At intervals his mother, without turning her
                        head, would whisper, "Sit up, Penrod," causing him to sigh
                        profoundly and move his shoulders about an inch, this mere gesture of
                        compliance exhausting all the energy that remained to him.
                    The black backs and gray heads of the elderly men in the congregation
                        oppressed him; they gave him a lethargic and indefinite feeling that he was
                        immersed among lives of repellent dullness. But he should have been grateful
                        to the lady with the artificial cherries upon her hat. His gaze lingered
                        there, wandered away, and hopelessly returned again and again, to be a
                        little refreshed by the glossy scarlet of the cluster of tiny globes. He was
                        not so fortunate as to be drowsy; that would have brought him some reliefand
                        yet, after a while, his eyes became slightly glazed; he saw dimly, and what
                        he saw was distorted.
                    The church had been built in the early 'Seventies, and it contained
                        some nave stained glass of that  period. The
                        arch at the top of a window facing Penrod was filled with a gigantic Eye. Of
                        oyster-white and raw blues and reds, inflamed by the pouring sun, it had
                        held an awful place in the infantile life of Penrod Schofield, for in his
                        tenderer years he accepted it without question as the literal Eye of Deity.
                        He had been informed that the church was the divine dwellingand there was
                        the Eye!
                    Nowadays, being no longer a little child, he had somehow come to know better
                        without being told, and though the great flaming Eye was no longer the
                        terrifying thing it had been to him during his childhood, it nevertheless
                        retained something of its ominous character. It made him feel spied upon,
                        and its awful glare still pursued him, sometimes, as he was falling asleep
                        at night. When he faced the window his feeling was one of dull resentment.
                    His own glazed eyes, becoming slightly crossed with an ennui which was peculiarly intense this morning, rendered the Eye more
                        monstrous than it was. It expanded to horrible size, growing mountainous; it
                        turned into a volcano in the tropics, and yet it stared at him, indubitably
                        an Eye implacably hostile to all rights of privacy forever. Penrod blinked
                        and clinched his eyelids to be rid of this dual  image, and he managed to shake off the volcano. Then, lowering the angle
                        of his glance, he saw something most remarkableand curiously out of place.
                    An inverted white soup-plate was lying miraculously balanced upon the back of
                        a pew a little distance in front of him, and upon the upturned bottom of the
                        soup plate was a brown cocoanut. Mildly surprised, Penrod yawned, and, in
                        the effort to straighten his eyes, came to life temporarily. The cocoanut
                        was revealed as Georgie Bassett's head, and the soup-plate as
                        Georgie's white collar. Georgie was sitting up straight, as he
                        always did in church, and Penrod found this vertical rectitude unpleasant.
                        He knew that he had more to fear from the Eye than Georgie had, and he was
                        under the impression (a correct one) that Georgie felt on intimate terms
                        with it and was actually fond of it.
                    Penrod himself would have maintained that he was fond of it, if he had been
                        asked. He would have said so because he feared to say otherwise; and the
                        truth is that he never consciously looked at the Eye disrespectfully. He
                        would have been alarmed if he thought the Eye had any way of finding out how
                        he really felt about it. When not off his guard, he always looked at it
                        placatively.
                    
                    By and by, he sagged so far to the left that he had symptoms of a
                        "stitch in the side," and, rousing himself, sat partially
                        straight for several moments. Then he rubbed his shoulders slowly from side
                        to side against the back of the seat, until his mother whispered,
                        "Don't do that, Penrod."
                    Upon this, he allowed himself to slump inwardly till the curve in the back of
                        his neck rested against the curved top of the back of the seat. It was a
                        congenial fit, and Penrod again began to move slowly from side to side,
                        finding the friction soothing. Even so slight a pleasure was denied him by a
                        husky, "Stop that!" from his father.
                    Penrod sighed, and slid farther down. He scratched his head, his left knee,
                        his right biceps, and his left ankle, after which he scratched his right
                        knee, his right ankle, and his left biceps. Then he said, "Oh,
                        hum!" unconsciously, but so loudly that there was a reproving stir
                        in the neighbourhood of the Schofield pew, and his father looked at him
                        angrily.
                    Finally, his nose began to trouble him. It itched, and after scratching it,
                        he rubbed it harshly. Another "Stop that!" from his father
                        proved of no avail, being greeted by a desperate-sounding whisper,
                        "I got to!"
                    
                    And, continuing to rub his nose with his right hand, Penrod began to search
                        his pockets with his left. The quest proving fruitless, he rubbed his nose
                        with his left hand and searched with his right. Then he abandoned his nose
                        and searched feverishly with both hands, going through all of his pockets
                        several times.
                    "What do you want?" whispered his mother.
                    But Margaret had divined his need, and she passed him her own handkerchief.
                        This was both thoughtful and thoughtlessthe latter because Margaret was in
                        the habit of thinking that she became faint in crowds, especially at the
                        theatre or in church, and she had just soaked her handkerchief with spirits
                        of ammonia from a small phial which she carried in her muff.
                    Penrod hastily applied the handkerchief to his nose and even more hastily
                        exploded. He sneezed stupendously; he choked, sneezed again, wept, passed
                        into a light convulsion of coughing and sneezing togethera mergence of sound
                        which attracted much attentionand, after a few recurrent spasms, convalesced
                        into a condition marked by silent tears and only sporadic instances of
                        sneezing.
                    By this time his family were unanimously scarlethis father and mother with
                        mortification, and  Margaret with the effort
                        to control the almost in-resistible mirth which the struggles and
                        vociferations of Penrod had inspired within her. And yet her heart misgave
                        her, for his bloodshot and tearful eyes were fixed upon her from the first
                        and remained upon her, even when half-blinded with his agony; and their
                        expressionas terrible as that of the windowed Eye confronting herwas not for
                        an instant to be misunderstood. Absolutely, he considered that she had
                        handed him the ammonia-soaked handkerchief deliberately and with malice, and
                        well she knew that no power on earth could now or at any time henceforth
                        persuade him otherwise.
                    "Of course I didn't mean it, Penrod," she said, at
                        the first opportunity upon their homeward way. "I didn't
                        noticethat is, I didn't think" Unfortunately for the
                        effect of sincerity which she hoped to produce, her voice became tremulous
                        and her shoulders moved suspiciously.
                    "Just you wait! You'll see!" he prophesied, in a
                        voice now choking, not with ammonia, but with emotion. "Poison a
                        person, and then laugh in his face!"
                    He spake no more until they had reached their 
                        own house, though she made some further futile efforts at explanation and
                        apology.
                    And after brooding abysmally throughout the meal that followed, he
                        disappeared from the sight of his family, having answered with one frightful
                        look his mother's timid suggestion that it was almost time for
                        Sunday-school. He retired to his eyrythe sawdust box in the empty stableand
                        there gave rein to his embittered imaginings, incidentally forming many
                        plans for Margaret.
                    Most of these were much too elaborate, but one was so alluring that he dwelt
                        upon it, working out the details with gloomy pleasure, even after he had
                        perceived its defects. It involved a considerable postponementin fact, until
                        Margaret should have become the mother of a boy about Penrod's
                        present age. This boy would be precisely like Georgie BassettPenrod
                        conceived that as inevitableand, like Georgie, he would be his
                        mother's idol. Penrod meant to take him to church and force him to
                        blow his nose with an ammonia-soaked handkerchief in the presence of the Eye
                        and all the congregation.
                    Then Penrod intended to say to this boy, after church, "Well,
                        that's exackly what your mother did to me, and if you
                        don't like it, you better look out!"
                    
                    And the real Penrod in the sawdust, box clenched his fists. "Come
                        ahead, then!" he muttered. "You talk too much!"
                        Whereupon, the Penrod of his dream gave Margaret's puny son a
                        contemptuous thrashing under the eyes of his mother, who besought in vain
                        for mercy. This plan was finally dropped, not because of any lingering
                        nepotism within Penrod, but because his injury called for action less
                        belated.
                    One after another, he thought of impossible things; one after another, he
                        thought of things merely inane and futile, for he was trying to do something
                        beyond his power. Penrod was never brilliant, or even successful, save by
                        inspiration.
                    At four o'clock he came into the house, still nebulous, and as he
                        passed the open door of the library he heard a man's voice, not his
                        father's.
                    "To me," said this voice, "the finest lines in all
                        literature are those in Tennyson's 'Maud'
                    
                        "'Had it lain for a century dead,
                        My dust would hear her and beat,
                        And blossom in purple and red,
                        There somewhere around near her feet.'
                    
                    "I think I have quoted correctly," continued the voice
                        nervously, "but, at any rate, what I wished to  ahsay was that I often think of thoseahwords; but I never
                        think of them without thinking ofofof you. Iah"
                    The nervous voice paused, and Penrod took an oblique survey of the room,
                        himself unobserved. Margaret was seated in an easy chair and her face was
                        turned away from Penrod, so that her expression of the moment remained
                        unknown to him. Facing her, and leaning toward her with perceptible emotion,
                        was Mr. Claude Blakelya young man with whom Penrod had no acquaintance,
                        though he had seen him, was aware of his identity, and had heard speech
                        between Mrs. Schofield and Margaret which indicated that Mr. Blakely had
                        formed the habit of calling frequently at the house. This was a brilliantly
                        handsome young man; indeed, his face was so beautiful that even Penrod was
                        able to perceive something about it which might be explicably pleasingat
                        least to women. And Penrod remembered that, on the last evening before Mr.
                        Robert Williams's departure for college, Margaret had been peevish
                        because Penrod had genially spent the greater portion of the evening with
                        Robert and herself upon the porch. Margaret made it clear, later, that she
                        strongly preferred to conduct her conversations  with friends unassistedand as Penrod listened to the faltering words of
                        Mr. Claude Blakely, he felt instinctively that, in a certain contingency,
                        Margaret's indignation would be even more severe to-day than on the
                        former occasion.
                    Mr. Blakely coughed faintly and was able to continue.
                    "I mean to say that when I say that what Tennyson saysahseems toto
                        apply toto a feeling about you"
                    At this point, finding too little breath in himself to proceed, in spite of
                        the fact that he had spoken in an almost inaudible tone, Mr. Blakely stopped
                        again.
                    Something about this little scene was making a deep impression upon Penrod.
                        What that impression was, he could not possibly have stated; but he had a
                        sense of the imminence of a tender crisis, and he perceived that the
                        piquancy of affairs in the library had reached a point which would brand an
                        intentional interruption as the act of a cold-blooded ruffian. Suddenly it
                        was as though a strong light shone upon him: he decided that it was Mr.
                        Blakely who had told Margaret that her eyes were like blue stars in
                            heaventhis was the person who had caused  the hateful letter to be written! That
                        decided Penrod; his inspiration, so long waited for, had come.
                    "II feel that perhaps I am not plain," said Mr. Blakely,
                        and immediately became red, whereas he had been pale. He was at least modest
                        enough about his looks to fear that Margaret might think he had referred to
                        them. "I mean, not plain in another sensethat is, I mean not that
                            I am not plain in saying what I mean to youI mean,
                        what you mean to me! I feel"
                    This was the moment selected by Penrod. He walked carelessly into the
                        library, inquiring in a loud, bluff voice:
                    "Has anybody seen my dog around here anywheres?"
                    Mr. Blakely had inclined himself so far toward Margaret, and he was sitting
                        so near the edge of the chair, that only a really wonderful bit of
                        instinctive gymnastics landed him upon his feet instead of upon his back. As
                        for Margaret, she said, "Good gracious!" and regarded
                        Penrod blankly.
                    "Well," said Penrod breezily, "I guess
                        it's no use lookin' for himhe isn't anywheres
                        around. I guess I'll sit down." Herewith, he sank into an
                        easy  chair, and remarked, as in comfortable
                        explanation, "I'm kind of tired standin' up,
                        anyway."
                    Even in this crisis, Margaret was a credit to her mother's training.
                    "Penrod, have you met Mr. Blakely?"
                    "What?"
                    Margaret primly performed the rite.
                    "Mr. Blakely, this is my little brother Penrod."
                    Mr. Blakely was understood to murmur, "How d'ye
                        do?"
                    "I'm well," said Penrod.
                    Margaret bent a perplexed gaze upon him, and be saw that she had not divined
                        his intentions, though the expression of Mr. Blakely was already beginning
                        to be a little compensation for the ammonia outrage. Then, as the protracted
                        silence which followed the introduction began to be a severe strain upon all
                        parties, Penrod felt called upon to relieve it.
                    "I didn't have anything much to do this afternoon,
                        anyway," he said. And at that there leaped a spark in
                        Margaret's eye; her expression became severe.
                    "You should have gone to Sunday-school," she told him
                        crisply.
                    
                    "Well, I didn't!" said Penrod, with a bitterness
                        so significant of sufferings connected with religion, ammonia, and herself,
                        that Margaret, after giving him a thoughtful look, concluded not to urge the
                        point.
                    Mr. Blakely smiled pleasantly. "I was looking out of the window a
                        minute ago," he said, "and I saw a dog run across the
                        street and turn the corner."
                    "What kind of a lookin' dog was it?" Penrod
                        inquired, with languor.
                    "Well," said Mr. Blakely, "it was ait was a
                        nicelooking dog."
                    "What colour was he?"
                    "He wasahwhite. That is, I think"
                    "It wasn't Duke," said Penrod.
                        "Duke's kind of brownish-gray-like."
                    Mr. Blakely brightened.
                    "Yes, that was it," he said. "This dog I saw first
                        had another dog with hima brownish-gray dog."
                    "Little or big?" Penrod asked, without interest.
                    "Why, Duke's a little dog!" Margaret intervened.
                        "Of course, if it was little, it must have been
                        Duke."
                    "It was little," said Mr. Blakely too
                        enthusiastically. "It was a little bit of a dog. I noticed it
                        because it was so little."
                    
                    "Couldn't 'a' been Duke, then,"
                        said Penrod. "Duke's a kind of a middle-sized
                        dog." He yawned, and added: "I don't want him
                        now. I want to stay in the house this afternoon, anyway. And it's
                        better for Duke to be out in the fresh air."
                    Mr. Blakely coughed again and sat down, finding little to say. It was
                        evident, also, that Margaret shared his perplexity; and another silence
                        became so embarrassing that Penrod broke it.
                    "I was out in the sawdust-box," he said, "but it
                        got kind of chilly." Neither of his auditors felt called upon to
                        offer any comment, and presently he added, "I thought I better come
                        in here where it's warmer."
                    "It's too warm," said Margaret, at once.
                        "Mr. Blakely, would you mind opening a window?"
                    "By all means!" the young man responded earnestly, as he
                        rose. "Maybe I'd better open two?"
                    "Yes," said Margaret; "that would be much
                        better."
                    But Penrod watched Mr. Blakely open two windows to their widest, and betrayed
                        no anxiety. His remarks upon the relative temperatures of the sawdust-box
                        and the library had been made merely for the sake of creating sound in a
                        silent place. When  the windows had been open
                        for several minutes, Penrod's placidity, though gloomy, denoted
                        anything but discomfort from the draft, which was powerful, the day being
                        windy.
                    It was Mr. Blakely's turn to break a silence, and he did it so
                        unexpectedly that Margaret started. He sneezed.
                    "Perhaps" Margaret began, but paused apprehensively.
                        "Perhaps-per-per" Her apprehensions became more and more
                        poignant; her eyes seemed fixed upon some incredible disaster; she appeared
                        to inflate while the catastrophe she foresaw became more and more imminent.
                        All at once she collapsed, but the power decorum had over her was attested
                        by the mildness of her sneeze after so threatening a prelude.
                    "Perhaps I'd better put one of the windows down,"
                        Mr. Blakely suggested.
                    "Both, I believe," said Margaret. "The room has
                        cooled off, now, I think."
                    Mr. Blakely closed the windows, and, returning to a chair near Margaret, did
                        his share in the production of another long period of quiet. Penrod allowed
                        this one to pass without any vocal disturbance on his part. It may be,
                        however, that his  gaze was disturbing to Mr.
                        Blakely, upon whose person it was glassily fixed with a self-forgetfulness
                        that was almost morbid.
                    "Didn't you enjoy the last meeting of the Cotillion
                        Club?" Margaret said finally.
                    And upon Mr. Blakely's answering absently in the affirmative, she
                        suddenly began to be talkative. He seemed to catch a meaning in her fluency,
                        and followed her lead, a conversation ensuing which at first had all the
                        outward signs of eagerness. They talked with warm interest of people and
                        events unknown to Penrod; they laughed enthusiastically about things beyond
                        his ken; they appeared to have arranged a perfect way to enjoy themselves,
                        no matter whether he was with them or elsewherebut presently their briskness
                        began to slacken; the appearance of interest became perfunctory. Within ten
                        minutes the few last scattering semblances of gayety had passed, and they
                        lapsed into the longest and most profound of all their silences indoors that
                        day. Its effect upon Penrod was to make him yawn and settle himself in his
                        chair.
                    Then Mr. Blakely, coming to the surface out of deep inward communings,
                        snapped his finger against the palm of his hand impulsively.
                    
                    "By George!" he exclaimed, under his breath.
                    "What is it?" Margaret asked. "Did you remember
                        something?"
                    "No, it's nothing," he said. "Nothing at
                        all. But, by the way, it seems a pity for you to be missing the fine
                        weather. I wonder if I could persuade you to take a little walk?"
                    Margaret, somewhat to the surprise of both the gentlemen present, looked
                        uncertain.
                    "I don't know" she said.
                    Mr. Blakely saw that she missed his point.
                    "One can talk better in the open, don't you
                        think?" he urged, with a significant glance toward Penrod.
                    Margaret also glanced keenly at Penrod. "Well, perhaps."
                        And then, "I'll get my hat," she said.
                    Penrod was on his feet before she left the room. He stretched himself.
                    "I'll get mine, too," he said.
                    But he carefully went to find it in a direction different from that taken by
                        his sister, and he joined her and her escort not till they were at the front
                        door, whither Mr. Blakelywith a last flickering of hopehad urged a flight in
                        haste.
                    "I been thinkin' of takin' a walk, all
                        afternoon,"  said Penrod pompously.
                        "Don't matter to me which way we go."
                    The exquisite oval of Mr. Claude Blakely's face merged into outlines
                        more rugged than usual; the conformation of his jaw became perceptible, and
                        it could be seen that he had conceived an idea which was crystallizing into
                        a determination.
                    "I believe it happens that this is our first walk
                        together," he said to Margaret, as they reached the pavement,
                        "but, from the kind of tennis you play, I judge that you could go a
                        pretty good gait. Do you like walking fast?"
                    She nodded. "For exercise."
                    "Shall we try it then?"
                    "You set the pace," said Margaret. "I think I can
                        keep up."
                    He took her at her word, and the amazing briskness of their start seemed a
                        little sinister to Penrod, though he was convinced that he could do anything
                        that Margaret could do, and also that neither she nor her comely friend
                        could sustain such a speed for long. On the contrary, they actually
                        increased it with each fleeting block they covered.
                    "Here!" he panted, when they had thus put something more
                        than a half-mile behind them. "There 
                        isn't anybody has to have a doctor, I guess! What's the
                        use our walkin' so fast?"
                    In truth, Penrod was not walking, for his shorter legs permitted no actual
                        walking at such a speed; his gait was a half-trot.
                    "Oh, we're out for a walk!" Mr. Blakely returned, a note of gayety beginning
                        to sound in his voice. "MargahMiss Schofield, keep your head up and
                        breathe through your nose. That's it! You'll find I was
                        right in suggesting this. It's going to turn out gloriously! Now,
                        let's make it a little faster."
                    Margaret murmured inarticulately, for she would not waste her breath in a
                        more coherent reply. Her cheeks were flushed; her eyes were brimming with
                        the wind, but when she looked at Penrod, they were brimming with something
                        more. Gurgling sounds came from her.
                    Penrod's expression had become grim. He offered no second protest,
                        mainly because he, likewise, would not waste his breath, and if he would, he
                        could not. Of breath in the ordinary sensebreath, breathed automaticallyhe
                        had none. He had only gasps to feed his straining lungs, and his half-trot,
                        which had long since become a trot, was changed for  a lope when Mr. Blakely reached his own best burst of speed.
                    And now people stared at the flying three. The gait of Margaret and Mr.
                        Blakely could be called a walk only by courtesy, while Penrod's was
                        becoming a kind of blind scamper. At times he zigzagged; other times, he
                        fell behind, wabbling. Anon, with elbows flopping and his face sculptured
                        like an antique mask, he would actually forge ahead, and then carom from one
                        to the other of his companions as he fell back again.
                    Thus the trio sped through the coming of autumn dusk, outflying the fallen
                        leaves that tumbled upon the wind. And still Penrod held to the task that he
                        had set himself. The street lamps flickered into life, but on and on Claude
                        Blakely led the lady, and on and on reeled the grim Penrod. Never once was
                        he so far from them that they could have exchanged a word unchaperoned by
                        his throbbing ear.
                    
                        "Oh!" Margaret cried, and, halting
                        suddenly, she draped herself about a lamp-post like a strip of bunting.
                            "Guh-uh-guh-goodness!" she sobbed.
                    Penrod immediately drooped to the curb-stone, which he reached, by pure
                        fortune, in a sitting position. Mr. Blakely leaned against a fence, and said
                             nothing, though his breathing was
                        eloquent. "Wewe must gogo home," Margaret gasped.
                        "We must, ifif we can drag ourselves!"
                    Then Penrod showed them what mettle they had tried to crack. A paroxysm of
                        coughing shook him; he spoke through it sobbingly:
                    "'Drag!' 'S jus' lul-like a
                        girl! Ha-why I walkoof!faster'n that every dayon
                        myway to school." He managed to subjugate a tendency to nausea.
                        "What youwant to gohome for?" he said.
                        "Le's go on!"
                    In the darkness Mr. Claude Blakely's expression could not be seen,
                        nor was his voice heard. For these and other reasons, his opinions and
                        sentiments may not be stated.
                    . . . Mrs. Schofield was looking rather anxiously forth from her front door
                        when the two adult figures and the faithful smaller one came up the walk.
                    "I was getting uneasy," she said. "Papa and I came
                        in and found the house empty. It's after seven. Oh, Mr. Blakely, is
                        that you?"
                    "Good-evening," he said. "I fear I must be keeping
                        an engagement. Good-night. Good-night, Miss Schofield."
                    
                    "Good-night."
                    "Well, good-night," Penrod called, staring after him. But
                        Mr. Blakely was already too far away to hear him, and a moment later Penrod
                        followed his mother and sister into the house.
                    "I let Della go to church," Mrs. Schofield said to
                        Margaret. "You and I might help Katie get supper."
                    "Not for a few minutes," Margaret returned gravely, looking
                        at Penrod. "Come upstairs, mamma; I want to tell you
                        something."
                    Penrod cackled hoarse triumph and defiance.
                    "Go on! Tell! What 'I care? You try to
                        poison a person in church again, and then laugh in his face, you'll
                        see what you get!"
                    But after his mother had retired with Margaret to the latter's room,
                        he began to feel disturbed in spite of his firm belief that his cause was
                        wholly that of justice victorious. Margaret had insidious ways of stating a
                        case; and her point of view, no matter how absurd or unjust, was almost
                        always adopted by Mr. and Mrs. Schofield in cases of controversy.
                    Penrod became uneasy. Perceiving himself to be in danger, he decided that
                        certain measures were  warranted.
                        Unquestionably, it would be well to know beforehand in what terms Margaret
                        would couch the charges which he supposed he must face in open courtthat is
                        to say, at the supper-table. He stole softly up the stairs, and, flattening
                        himself against the wall, approached Margaret's door, which was
                        about an inch ajar.
                    He heard his mother making sounds which appalled himhe took them for sobs.
                        And then Margaret's voice rang out in a peal of insane laughter.
                        Trembling, he crept nearer the door. Within the room Margaret was clinging
                        to her mother, and both were trying to control their hilarity.
                    "He did it all to get even!" Margaret exclaimed, wiping her
                        eyes. "He came in at just the right time. That goose was beginning to talk his silly, soft talkthe way he does with
                        every girl in townand he was almost proposing, and I didn't know
                        how to stop him. And then Penrod came in and did it for me. I could have
                        hugged Penrod, mamma, I actually could! And I saw he meant to stay to get
                        even for that ammoniaand, oh, I worked so hard to make him think I wanted
                        him to go! Mamma, mamma, if you could have seen that walk! That goose kept thinking he
                        could wear Penrod out  or drop him behind, but
                        I knew he couldn't so long as Penrod believed he was worrying us
                        and getting even. And that goose thought I wanted to get rid of Penrod, too; and the conceited thing said it
                        would turn out 'gloriously,' meaning we'd be
                        alone together pretty soonI'd like to shake him! You see, I
                        pretended so well, in order to make Penrod stick to us, that goose believed I meant it! And if he hadn't tried to walk
                        Penrod off his legs, he wouldn't have wilted his own collar and
                        worn himself out, and I think he'd have hung on until
                        you'd have had to invite him to stay to supper, and he'd
                        have stayed on all evening, and I wouldn't have had a chance to
                        write to Robert Williams. Mamma, there have been lots of times when I
                        haven't been thankful for Penrod, but to-day I could have got down
                        on my knees to you and papa for giving me such a brother!"
                    In the darkness of the hall, as a small but crushed and broken form stole
                        away from the crack in the door, a gigantic Eye seemed to formseemed to
                        glare down upon Penrodwarning him that the way of vengeance is the way of
                        bafflement, and that genius may not prevail against the trickeries of women.
                    "This has been a nice day!" Penrod
                        muttered hoarsely.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    ON ACCOUNT OF THE WEATHER
                    
                        THERE is no boredom (not even an invalid's)
                        comparable to that of a boy who has nothing to do. When a man says he has
                        nothing to do, he speaks idly; there is always more than he can do. Grown
                        women never say they have nothing to do, and when girls or little girls say
                        they have nothing to do, they are merely airing an affectation. But when a
                        boy has nothing to do, he has actually nothing at all to do; his state is
                        pathetic, and when he complains of it, his voice is haunting.
                    Mrs. Schofield was troubled by this uncomfortable quality in the voice of her
                        son, who came to her thrice, in his search for entertainment or even
                        employment, one Saturday afternoon during the February thaw. Few facts are
                        better established than that the February thaw is the poorest time of year
                        for everybody. But for a boy it is worse than poorest; it is bankrupt. The
                        remnant streaks of old soot-speckled snow left against the north walls  of houses have no power to inspire; rather,
                        they are dreary reminders of sports long since carried to satiety. One cares
                        little even to eat such snow, and the eating of icicles, also, has come to
                        be a flaccid and stale diversion. There is no ice to bear a skate; there is
                        only a vast sufficiency of cold mud, practically useless. Sunshine flickers
                        shiftily, coming and going without any honest purpose; snow-squalls blow for
                        five minutes, the flakes disappearing as they touch the earth; half an hour
                        later rain sputters, turns to snow, and then turns back to rainand the sun
                        disingenuously beams out again, only to be shut off like a rogue's
                        lantern. And all the wretched while, if a boy sets foot out of doors, he
                        must be harassed about his overcoat and rubbers; he is warned against
                        tracking up the plastic lawn and sharply advised to stay inside the house.
                        Saturday might as well be Sunday.
                    Thus the season. Penrod had sought all possible means to pass the time. A
                        full half-hour of vehement yodelling in the Williams's yard had
                        failed to bring forth comrade Sam; and at last a coloured woman had opened a
                        window to inform Penrod that her intellect was being unseated by his
                        vocalizations, which surpassed in unpleasantness, she  claimed, every sound in her previous experienceand, for the
                        sake of definiteness, she stated her age to be fifty-three years and four
                        months. She added that all members of the Williams family had gone out of
                        town to attend the funeral of a relative, but she wished that they might
                        have remained to attend Penrod's, which she confidently predicted
                        as imminent if the neighbourhood followed its natural impulse.
                    Penrod listened for a time, but departed before the conclusion of the
                        oration. He sought other comrades, with no success; he even went to the
                        length of yodelling in the yard of that best of boys, Georgie Bassett. Here
                        was failure again, for Georgie signalled to him, through a closed window,
                        that a closeting with dramatic literature was preferable to the society of a
                        playmate; and the book which Georgie exhibited was openly labelled,
                        "300 Choice Declamations." Georgie also managed to convey
                        another reason for his refusal of Penrod's companionship, the
                        visitor being conversant with lip-reading through his studies at the
                        "movies."
                    
                        "Too muddy!"
                    
                    Penrod went home.
                    "Well," said Mrs. Schofield, having almost exhausted  a mother's powers of suggestion,
                        "well, why don't you give Duke a bath?" She was
                        that far depleted when Penrod came to her the third time.
                    Mothers' suggestions are wonderful for little children but sometimes
                        lack lustre when a boy is about twelvean age to which the ideas of a Swede
                        farm-hand would usually prove more congenial. However, the dim and
                        melancholy eye of Penrod showed a pale gleam, and he departed. He gave Duke
                        a bath.
                    The entertainment proved damp and discouraging for both parties. Duke began
                        to tremble even before he was lifted into the water, and after his first
                        immersion he was revealed to be a dog weighing about one-fourth of what an
                        observer of Duke, when Duke was dry, must have guessed his weight to be. His
                        wetness and the disclosure of his extreme fleshly insignificance appeared to
                        mortify him profoundly. He wept. But, presently, under Penrod's
                        thorough ministrationsfor the young master was inclined to make this bath
                        last as long as possibleDuke plucked up a heart and began a series of
                        passionate attempts to close the interview. As this was his first bath since
                        September, the effects were  lavish and
                        impressionistic, both upon Penrod and upon the bathroom. However, the
                        imperious boy's loud remonstrances contributed to bring about the
                        result desired by Duke.
                    Mrs. Schofield came running, and eloquently put an end to Duke's
                        winter bath. When she had suggested this cleansing as a pleasant means of
                        passing the time, she assumed that it would take place in a washtub in the
                        cellar; and Penrod's location of the performance in her own
                        bathroom was far from her intention.
                    Penrod found her language oppressive, and, having been denied the right to
                        rub Duke dry with a bath-towelor even with the cover of a table in the next
                        roomthe dismal boy, accompanied by his dismal dog, set forth, by way of the
                        kitchen door, into the dismal weather. With no purpose in mind, they
                        mechanically went out to the alley, where Penrod leaned morosely against the
                        fence, and Duke stood shivering close by, his figure still emaciated and his
                        tail absolutely withdrawn from view.
                    There was a cold, wet wind, however; and before long Duke found his condition
                        unendurable. He was past middle age and cared little for exercise, but he
                        saw that something must be done. Therefore, 
                        he made a vigorous attempt to dry himself in a dog's way. Throwing
                        himself, shoulders first, upon the alley mud, he slid upon it, back
                        downward; he rolled and rolled and rolled. He began to feel lively and
                        rolled the more; in every way he convinced Penrod that dogs have no regard
                        for appearances. Also, having discovered an ex-fish near the Herman and
                        Verman cottage, Duke confirmed an impression of Penrod's that dogs
                        have a peculiar fancy in the matter of odours which they like to wear.
                    Growing livelier and livelier, Duke now wished to play with his master.
                        Penrod was anything but fastidious; nevertheless, under the circumstances,
                        he withdrew to the kitchen, leaving Duke to play by himself, outside.
                    Della, the cook, was comfortably making rolls and entertaining a caller with
                        a cup of tea. Penrod lingered a few moments, but found even his attention to
                        the conversation ill received, while his attempts to take part in it met
                        outright rebuff. His feelings were hurt; he passed broodingly to the front
                        part of the house, and flung himself wearily into an armchair in the
                        library. With glazed eyes he stared at shelves of books that meant to him
                        just what the wall-paper meant, and he sighed from the  abyss. His legs tossed and his arms flopped; he got up,
                        scratched himself exhaustively, and shuffled to a window. Ten desolate
                        minutes he stood there, gazing out sluggishly upon a soggy world. During
                        this time two wet delivery-wagons and four elderly women under umbrellas
                        were all that crossed his field of vision. Somewhere in the world, he
                        thought, there was probably a boy who lived across the street from a jail or
                        a fire-engine house, and had windows worth looking out of. Penrod rubbed his
                        nose up and down the pane slowly, continuously, and without the slightest
                        pleasure; and he again scratched himself wherever it was possible to do so,
                        though he did not even itch. There was nothing in his life.
                    Such boredom as he was suffering can become agony, and an imaginative
                        creature may do wild things to escape it; many a grown person has taken to
                        drink on account of less pressure than was upon Penrod during that
                        intolerable Saturday.
                    A faint sound in his ear informed him that Della, in the kitchen, had uttered
                        a loud exclamation, and he decided to go back there. However, since his
                        former visit had resulted in a rebuff that still rankled, he paused outside
                        the kitchen door, which was  slightly ajar,
                        and listened. He did this idly, and with no hope of hearing anything
                        interesting or helpful.
                    "Snakes!" Della exclaimed. "Didja say the poor man
                        was seein' snakes, Mrs. Cullen?"
                    "No, Della," Mrs Cullen returned dolorously; "jist
                        one. Flora says he niver see more th'n onejist one big, long,
                        ugly-faced horr'ble black one; the same one comin' back
                        an' makin' a fizzin' n'ise at um
                        iv'ry time he had the fit on um. 'Twas alw'ys the
                        same snake; an' he'd holler at Flora. 'Here it
                        comes ag'in, oh, me soul!' he'd
                        holler. 'The big, black, ugly-faced thing; it's as long as
                        the front fence!' he'd holler, 'an'
                        it's makin' a fizzin' n'ise at me,
                        an' breathin' in me face!' he'd holler.
                        'Fer th' love o' hivin',
                        Flora,' he'd holler, 'it's got a little
                        black man wit' a gassly white forehead a-pokin' of it
                        along wit' a broom-handle, an' a-sickin' it on
                        me, the same as a boy sicks a dog on a poor cat. Fer the love o'
                        hivin', Flora,' he'd holler, 'cantcha
                        fright it away from me before I go out o' me
                        head?'"
                    "Poor Tom!" said Della with deep compassion.
                        "An' the poor man out of his head all the time,
                        an' not knowin' it! 'Twas awful fer Flora to sit
                        there an' hear such things in the night like that!"
                    
                    "You may believe yerself whin ye say it!" Mrs. Cullen
                        agreed. "Right the very night the poor soul died, he was
                        hollerin' how the big black snake and the little black man
                        wit' the gassly white forehead a-pokin' it wit' a
                        broomstick had come fer um. 'Fright 'em away,
                        Flora!' he was croakin', in a v'ice that hoarse
                        an' husky 'twas hard to make out what he says.
                        'Fright 'em away, Flora!' he says. '
                        'Tis the big, black, ugly-faced snake, as black as a black
                        stockin' an' thicker round than me leg at the thigh before
                        I was wasted away!' he says, poor man. 'It's
                        makin' the fizzin' n'ise awful
                        to-night,' he says. 'An' the little black man
                        wit' the gassly white fore-head is a-laughin','
                        he says. 'He's a-laughin' an'
                        a-pokin' the big, black, fizzin,' ugly-faced snake
                        wit' his broomstick"'
                    Della was unable to endure the description.
                    "Don't tell me no more, Mrs. Cullen!" she
                        protested. "Poor Tom! I thought Flora was wrong last week whin she
                        hid the whisky. 'Twas takin' it away from him that killed
                        himan' him already so sick!"
                    "Well," said Mrs. Cullen, "he hardly had the
                        strengt' to drink much, she tells me, after he see the big snake
                        an' the little black divil the first time.  Poor woman, she says he talked so plain she sees 'em
                        both herself, iv'ry time she looks at the poor body where
                        it's laid out. She says"
                    "Don't tell me!" cried the impressionable Della.
                        "Don't tell me, Mrs. Cullen! I can most see 'em
                        meself, right here in me own kitchen! Poor Tom! To think whin I bought me
                        new hat, only last week, the first time I'd be wearin'
                        it'd be to his funeral. To-morrow afternoon, it is?"
                    "At two o'clock," said Mrs. Cullen.
                        "Ye'll be comin' to th' house to-night,
                        o' course, Della?"
                    "I will," said Della. "After what I've
                        been hearin' from ye, I'm most afraid to come, but
                        I'll do it. Poor Tom! I remember the day him an' Flora was
                        married"
                    But the eavesdropper heard no more; he was on his way up the back stairs.
                        Life and lightand purposehad come to his face once more.
                    Margaret was out for the afternoon. Unostentatiously, he went to her room,
                        and for the next few minutes occupied himself busily therein. He was so
                        quiet that his mother, sewing in her own room, would not have heard him
                        except for the obstinacy of one of the drawers in Margaret's
                        bureau. Mrs. Scho-field went to the door of her daughter's room.
                    
                    "What are you doing, Penrod?"
                    "Nothin'."
                    "You're not disturbing any of Margaret's things,
                        are you?"
                    "No, ma'am," said the meek lad.
                    "What did you jerk that drawer open for?"
                    "Ma'am?"
                    "You heard me, Penrod."
                    "For what?" Mrs Schofield asked. "You know that
                        nothing of yours would be in Margaret's room, Penrod,
                        don't you?"
                    "Ma'am?"
                    "What was it you wanted?" she asked, rather impatiently.
                    "I was just lookin' for some pins."
                    "Very well," she said, and handed him two from the shoulder
                        of her blouse.
                    "I ought to have more," he said. "I want about
                        forty."
                    "What for?"
                    "I just want to make sumpthing, mamma,"
                        he said plaintively. "My goodness! Can't I even want to
                        have a few pins without everybody makin' such a fuss about it
                        you'd think I was doin' a srime!"
                    
                    "Doing a what, Penrod?"
                    "A srime!" he repeated, with emphasis;
                        and a moment's reflection enlightened his mother.
                    "Oh, a crime!" she exclaimed. "You must quit reading the murder trials in the newspapers, Penrod. And
                        when you read words you don't know how to pronounce you ought to
                        ask either your papa or me."
                    "Well, I am askin' you about sumpthing now," said
                        Penrod. "Can't I even have a few pins
                        without stoppin' to talk about everything in the newspapers,
                        mamma?"
                    "Yes," she said, laughing at his seriousness; and she took
                        him to her room, and bestowed upon him five or six rows torn from a paper of
                        pins. "That ought to be plenty," she said,
                        "whatever you want to make."
                    And she smiled after his retreating figure, not noting that he looked softly
                        bulky around the body, and held his elbows unnaturally tight to his sides.
                        She was assured of the innocence of anything to be made with pins, and
                        forebore to press investigation. For Penrod to be playing with pins seemed
                        almost girlish. Unhappy woman, it pleased her to have her son seem girlish!
                    Penrod went out to the stable, tossed his pins into  the wheelbarrow, then took from his pocket and unfolded six
                        pairs of long black stockings, indubitably the property of his sister.
                        (Evidently Mrs. Scho-field had been a little late in making her appearance
                        at the door of Margaret's room.)
                    Penrod worked systematically; he hung the twelve stockings over the sides of
                        the wheelbarrow, and placed the wheelbarrow beside a large packing-box which
                        was half full of excelsior. One after another, he stuffed the stockings with
                        excelsior, till they looked like twelve long black sausages. Then he pinned
                        the top of one stocking securely over the stuffed foot of another, pinning
                        the top of a third to the foot of the second, the top of a fourth to the
                        foot of the thirdand continued operations in this fashion until the twelve
                        stockings were the semblance of one long and sinuous black body,
                        sufficiently suggestive to any normal eye.
                    He tied a string to one end of this unpleasant-looking thing, led it around
                        the stable, and, by vigorous manipulations, succeeded in making it wriggle
                        realistically; but he was not satisfied, and, dropping the string
                        listlessly, sat down in the wheelbarrow to ponder. Penrod sometimes proved
                        that there were within him the makings of an artist;  he had become fascinated by an idea, and could not be content
                        until that idea was beautifully realized. He had meant to create a big,
                        long, ugly-faced horrible black snake with which to interest Della and her
                        friend, Mrs. Cullen; but he felt that results, so far, were too crude for
                        exploitation. Merely to lead the pinned stockings by a string was little to
                        fulfill his ambitious vision.
                    Finally, he rose from the wheelbarrow.
                    "If I only had a cat!" he said dreamily.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    CREATIVE ART
                    
                        HE WENT forth, seeking.
                    The Schofield household was catless this winter, but there was a nice white
                        cat at the Williams'. Penrod strolled thoughtfully over to the
                        Williams' yard.
                    He was entirely successful, not even having been seen by the sensitive
                        coloured woman, aged fifty-three years and four months.
                    But still Penrod was thoughtful. The artist within him was unsatisfied with
                        his materials: and upon his return to the stable he placed the cat beneath
                        an overturned box, and once more sat down in the inspiring wheelbarrow,
                        pondering. His expression, concentrated and yet a little anxious, was like
                        that of a painter at work upon a portrait which may or may not turn out to
                        be a masterpiece. The cat did not disturb him by her purring, though she
                        was, indeed, already purring. She was one of those cozy, youngish catsplump,
                        even a little full-bodied, perhaps,  and
                        rather conscious of the figurethat are entirely conventional and domestic by
                        nature, and will set up a ladylike housekeeping anywhere without making a
                        fuss about it. If there were a fault in these cats, overcomplacency might be
                        the name for it; they are a shade too sure of themselves, and their
                        assumption that the world means to treat them respectfully has just a little
                        taint of the grande dame. Consequently, they are liable to
                        great outbreaks of nervous energy from within, engendered by the extreme
                        surprises which life sometimes holds in store for them. They lack the
                        pessimistic imagination.
                    Mrs. Williams' cat was content upon a strange floor and in the
                        confining enclosure of a strange box. She purred for a time, then trustfully
                        fell asleep. 'Twas well she slumbered; she would need all her
                        powers presently.
                    She slumbered, and dreamed not that she would wake to mingle with events
                        which were to alter her serene disposition radically, and cause her to
                        become hasty-tempered and abnormally suspicious for the rest of her life.
                    Meanwhile, Penrod appeared to reach a doubtful solution of his problem. His
                        expression was still somewhat clouded as he brought from the storeroom  of the stable a small fragment of a broken
                        mirror, two paint brushes, and two old cans, one containing black paint and
                        the other white. He regarded himself earnestly in the mirror; then, with
                        some reluctance, he dipped a brush into one of the cans, and slowly painted
                        his nose a midnight black. He was on the point of spreading this decoration
                        to cover the lower part of his face, when he paused, brush halfway between
                        can and chin.
                    What arrested him was a sound from the alleya sound of drumming upon tin. The
                        eyes of Penrod became significant of rushing thoughts; his expression
                        cleared and brightened. He ran to the alley doors and flung them open.
                    "Oh, Verman!" he shouted.
                    Marching up and down before the cottage across the alley, Verman plainly
                        considered himself to be an army. Hanging from his shoulders by a string was
                        an old tin wash-basin, whereon he beat cheerily with two dry bones, once the
                        chief supports of a chicken. Thus he assuaged his ennui.
                    
                    "Verman, come on in here," Penrod called. "I got
                        sumpthing for you to do you'll like awful well."
                    Verman halted, ceased to drum, and stared. His gaze was not fixed
                        particularly upon Penrod's nose, 
                        however, and neither now nor later did he make any remark or gesture
                        referring to this casual eccentricity. He expected things like that upon
                        Penrod or Sam Williams. And as for Penrod himself, he had already forgotten
                        that his nose was painted.
                    "Come on, Verman!"
                    Verman continued to stare, not moving. He had received such invitations
                        before, and they had not always resulted to his advantage. Within that
                        stable things had happened to him the like of which he was anxious to avoid
                        in the future.
                    "Oh, come ahead, Verman!" Penrod urged, and, divining logic
                        in the reluctance confronting him, he added, "This ain't
                        goin' to be anything like last time, Verman. I got sumpthing just
                            splendud for you to do!"
                    Verman's expression hardened; he shook his head decisively.
                    "Mo," he said.
                    "Oh, come on, Verman?" Penrod pleaded.
                        "It isn't anything goin' to hurt you, is it? I tell you it's sumpthing you'd
                        give a good deal to get to do, if you knew what it
                        is."
                    "Mo!" said Verman firmly. "I mome maw
                        woo!" Penrod offered arguments.
                    
                    "Look, Verman!" he said. "Listen here a minute,
                        can't you? How d'you know you don't want to until
                        you know what it is? A person can't know they
                        don't want to do a thing even before the other person tells
                        'em what they're goin' to get 'em to do,
                        can they? For all you know, this thing I'm goin' to get
                        you to do might be sumpthing you wouldn't miss doin' for
                        anything there is! For all you know, Verman, it might be sumpthing like
                        this: well, f'rin-stance, s'pose I was standin'
                        here, and you were over there, sort of like the way you are now, and I says,
                        'Hello, Verman!' and then I'd go on and tell you
                        there was sumpthing I was goin' to get you to do; and
                        you'd say you wouldn't do it, even before you heard what
                        it was, why where'd be any sense to that? For all
                        you know, I might of been goin' to get you to eat a five-cent bag
                        o' peanuts."
                    Verman had listened obdurately until he heard the last few words, but as they
                        fell upon his ear, he relaxed, and advanced to the stable doors, smiling and
                        extending his open right hand.
                    "Aw wi'," he said. "Gi'm
                        here."
                    "Well," Penrod returned, a trifle embarrassed, "I
                        didn't say it was peanuts, did I? Honest, Verman,
                        it's sumpthing you'll like better'n a few old  peanuts that most of 'em'd
                        prob'ly have worms in 'em, anyway. All I want you to do
                        is"
                    But Verman was not favourably impressed; his face hardened again.
                    "Mo!" he said, and prepared to depart.
                    "Look here, Verman," Penrod urged. "It
                        isn't goin' to hurt you just to come in here and see what
                        I got for you, is it? You can do that much, can't
                        you?"
                    Surely such an appeal must have appeared reasonable, even to Verman,
                        especially since its effect was aided by the promising words, "See
                        what I got for you." Certainly Verman yielded to it, though perhaps
                        a little suspiciously. He advanced a few cautious steps into the stable.
                    "Look!" Penrod cried, and he ran to the stuffed and linked
                        stockings, seized the leading-string, and vigorously illustrated his further
                        remarks. "How's that for a big, long, ugly-faced
                        horr'ble black ole snake, Verman? Look at her follow me all round
                        anywhere I feel like goin'! Look at her wiggle, will you, though?
                        Look how I make her do anything I tell her to. Lay down, you ole snake, you!
                        See her lay down when I tell her to, Verman? Wiggle, you ole snake, you! See
                        her wiggle, Verman?"
                    
                    "Hi!" Undoubtedly Verman felt some pleasure.
                    "Now, listen, Verman!" Penrod continued, hastening to make
                        the most of the opportunity. "Listen! I fixed up this good ole
                        snake just for you. I'm goin' to give her to
                        you."
                    
                        "Hi!"
                    
                    On account of a previous experience not unconnected with cats, and likely to
                        prejudice Verman, Penrod decided to postpone mentioning Mrs.
                        Williams' pet until he should have secured Verman's
                        coperation in the enterprise irretrievably.
                    "All you got to do," he went on, "is to chase this
                        good ole snake around, and sort o' laugh and keep pokin'
                        it with the handle o' that rake yonder. I'm goin'
                        to saw it off just so's you can poke your good ole snake with it,
                        Verman."
                    "Aw wi'," said Verman, and extending his open hand
                        again, he uttered a hopeful request.
                    "Peamup?"
                    His host perceived that Verman had misunderstood him.
                        "Peanuts!" he exclaimed. "My goodness! I
                        didn't say I had any peanuts, did I? I only said
                        s'pose f'rinstance I did have some. My
                        goodness! You don't expeck me to go round here all day
                        workin' like a dog to make a good ole snake for you and then  give you a bag o' peanuts to hire
                        you to play with it, do you, Verman? My
                        goodness!"
                    Verman's hand fell, with a little disappointment.
                    "Aw wi'," he said, consenting to accept the snake
                        without the bonus.
                    "That's the boy! Now we're all
                        right, Verman; and pretty soon I'm goin' to saw that
                        rake-handle off for you, too; so's you can kind o' guide
                        your good ole snake around with it; but firstwell, first there's
                        just one more thing's got to be done. I'll show youit
                        won't take but a minute." Then, while Verman watched him
                        wonderingly, he went to the can of white paint and dipped a brush therein.
                        "It won't get on your clo'es much, or anything,
                        Verman," he explained. "I only just got to"
                    But as he approached, dripping brush in hand, the wondering look was all gone
                        from Verman; determination took its place.
                    "Mo!" he said, turned his back, and started for outdoors.
                    "Look here, Verman," Penrod cried. "I
                        haven't done anything to you yet, have I? It isn't
                        goin' to hurt you, is it? You act like a little teeny bit
                        o' paint was goin' to kill you! What's the matter
                        of you? I only just got to paint the top part of your  face; I'm not goin' to touch the other part of itnor your hands or anything. All I want"
                    
                        "Mo!" said Verman from the doorway.
                    "Oh, my goodness!" moaned Penrod; and in desperation he
                        drew forth from his pocket his entire fortune. "All right,
                        Verman," he said resignedly. "If you won't do it
                        any other way, here's a nickel, and you can go and buy you some
                        peanuts when we get through. But if I give you this money, you got to
                        promise to wait till we are through, and you got to
                        promise to do anything I tell you to. You goin' to
                        promise?"
                    The eyes of Verman glistened; he returned, gave bond, and, grasping the coin,
                        burst into the rich laughter of a gourmand.
                    Penrod immediately painted him dead white above the eyes, all round his head
                        and including his hair. It took all the paint in the can.
                    Then the artist mentioned the presence of Mrs. Williams' cat,
                        explained in full his ideas concerning the docile animal, and the long black
                        snake, and Della and her friend, Mrs. Cullen, while Verman listened with
                        anxiety, but remained true to his oath.
                    They removed the stocking at the end of the long black snake, and cut four
                        holes in the foot and ankle  of it. They
                        removed the excelsior, placed Mrs. Williams' cat in the stocking,
                        shook her down into the lower section of it; drew her feet through the four
                        holes there, leaving her head in the toe of the stocking; then packed the
                        excelsior down on top of her, and once more attached the stocking to the
                        rest of the long, black snake.
                    How shameful is the ease of the historian! He sits in his dressing-gown to
                        write: "The enemy attacked in force" The tranquil pen,
                        moving in a cloud of tobacco smoke, leaves upon the page its little
                        hieroglyphics, serenely summing up the monstrous deeds and sufferings of men
                        of action. How cold, how niggardly, to state merely that Penrod and the
                        painted Verman succeeded in giving the long, black snake a motive power, or
                        tractor, apparently its own but consisting of Mrs. Williams' cat!
                    She was drowsy when they lifted the box; she was still drowsy when they
                        introduced part of her into the orifice of the stocking; but she woke to
                        full, vigorous young life when she perceived that their purpose was for her
                        to descend into the black depths of that stocking head first.
                    Verman held the mouth of the stocking stretched, and Penrod manipulated the
                        cat; but she left her  hearty mark on both of
                        them before, in a moment of unfortunate inspiration, she humped her back
                        while she was upside down, and Penrod took advantage of the concavity to
                        increase it even more than she desired. The next instant she was assisted
                        downward into the gloomy interior, with excelsior already beginning to block
                        the means of egress.
                    Gymnastic moments followed; there were times when both boys hurled themselves
                        full-length upon the floor, seizing the animated stocking with far-extended
                        hands; and even when the snake was a complete thing, with legs growing from
                        its unquestionably ugly face, either Penrod or Verman must keep a grasp upon
                        it, for it would not be soothed, and refused, over and over, to calm itself,
                        even when addressed as, "Poor pussy!" and "Nice
                        'ittle kitty!"
                    Finally, they thought they had their good ole snake "about quieted
                        down," as Penrod said, because the animated head had remained in
                        one place for an unusual length of time, though the legs produced a rather
                        sinister effect of crouching, and a noise like a distant planing-mill came
                        from the interiorand then Duke appeared in the doorway.
                    He was still feeling lively.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    THE DEPARTING GUEST
                    
                        BY THE time Penrod returned from chasing Duke to the next
                        corner, Verman had the long, black snake down from the rafter where its
                        active head had taken refuge, with the rest of it dangling; and both boys
                        agreed that Mrs. Williams' cat must certainly be able to
                        "see some, anyway," through the meshes
                        of the stocking.
                    "Well," said Penrod, "it's
                        gettin' pretty near dark, what with all this bother and mess we
                        been havin' around here, and I expeck as soon as I get this good
                        ole broom-handle fixed out of the rake for you, Verman, it'll be
                        about time to begin what we had to go and take all this trouble for."
                    
                    . . . . Mr. Schofield had brought an old friend home to dinner with him:
                        "Dear old Joe Gilling," he called this friend when
                        introducing him to Mrs. Schofield. Mr. Gilling, as Mrs. Schofield was
                        already informed by telephone, had just happened  to turn up in town that day, and had called on his classmate
                        at the latter's office. The two had not seen each other in eighteen
                        years.
                    Mr. Gilling was a tall man, clad highly in the mode, and brought to a
                        polished and powdered finish by barber and manicurist; but his colour was
                        peculiar, being almost unhumanly florid, and, as Mrs. Schofield afterward
                        claimed to have noticed, his eyes "wore a nervous, apprehensive
                        look," his hands were tremulous, and his manner was "queer
                        and jerky"at least, that is how she defined it.
                    She was not surprised to hear him state that he was travelling for his health
                        and not upon business. He had not been really well for several years, he
                        said.
                    At that, Mr. Schofield laughed and slapped him heartily on the back.
                    "Oh, mercy!" cried Mr. Gilling, leaping in his chair.
                        "What is the matter?"
                    "Nothing!" Mr. Schofield laughed. "I just slapped
                        you the way we used to slap each other on the campus. What I was going to
                        say was that you have no business being a bachelor. With all your money, and
                        nothing to do but travel and sit around hotels and clubs, no wonder
                        you've grown bilious."
                    
                    "Oh, no; I'm not bilious," said Mr. Gilling
                        uncomfortably. "I'm not bilious at all."
                    "You ought to get married," Mr. Schofield returned.
                        "You ought" He paused, for Mr. Gilling had jumped again.
                        "What's the trouble, Joe?"
                    "Nothing. I thought perhapsperhaps you were going to slap me on the
                        back again."
                    "Not this time," said Mr. Schofield, renewing his laughter.
                        "Well, is dinner about ready?" he asked, turning to his
                        wife. "Where are Margaret and Penrod?"
                    "Margaret's just come in," Mrs. Schofield
                        answered. "She'll be down in a minute, and
                        Penrod's around somewhere."
                    "Penrod?" Mr. Gilling repeated curiously, in his nervous,
                        serious way. "What is Penrod?"
                    And at this Mrs. Schofield joined in her husband's laughter. Mr.
                        Schofield explained.
                    "Penrod's our young son," he said.
                        "He's not much for looks, maybe, but he's been
                        pretty good lately, and sometimes we're almost inclined to be proud
                        of him. You'll see him in a minute, old Joe!"
                    Old Joe saw him even sooner. Instantly, as Mr. 
                        Schofield finished his little prediction, the most shocking uproar ever
                        heard in that house burst forth in the kitchen. Distinctly Irish shrieks
                        unlimited came from that quartertogether with the clashing of hurled metal
                        and tin, the appealing sound of breaking china, and the hysterical barking
                        of a dog.
                    The library door flew open, and Mrs. Cullen appeared as a mingled streak
                        crossing the room from one door to the other. She was followed by a boy with
                        a coal-black nose; and between his feet, as he entered, there appeared a
                        big, long, black, horr'ble snake, with frantic legs springing from
                        what appeared to be its head; and it further fulfilled Mrs.
                        Cullen's description by making a fizzin' noise.
                        Accompanying the snake, and still faithfully endeavouring to guide it with
                        the detached handle of a rake, was a small black demon with a gassly white
                        forehead and gasslier white hair. Duke, evidently still feeling his bath,
                        was doing all in his power to aid the demon in making the snake step lively.
                        A few kitchen implements followed this fugitive procession through the
                        library doorway.
                    The long, black snake became involved with a leg of the heavy table in the
                        centre of the room. The head developed spasms of agility; there were  clawings and rippings; then the foremost
                        section of the long, black snake detached itself, bounded into the air, and,
                        after turning a number of somersaults, became, severally, a torn stocking,
                        excelsior, and a lunatic cat. The ears of this cat were laid back flat upon
                        its head and its speed was excessive upon a fairly circular track it laid
                        out for itself in the library. Flying round this orbit, it perceived the
                        open doorway; passed through it, thence to the kitchen, and outward and
                        onwardDella having left the kitchen door open in her haste as she retired to
                        the backyard.
                    The black demon with the gassly white forehead and hair, finding himself in
                        the presence of grown people who were white all over, turned in his tracks
                        and followed Mrs. Williams' cat to the great outdoors. Duke
                        preceded Verman. Mrs. Cullen vanished. Of the apparition, only wreckage and
                        a rightfully apprehensive Penrod were left.
                    "But where" Mrs. Schofield began, a few minutes later,
                        looking suddenly mystified"wherewhere"
                    "Where what?" asked Mr. Schofield testily. "What
                        are you talking about?" His nerves were  jarred, and he was rather hoarse after what he had been saying
                        to Penrod. (That regretful necromancer was now upstairs doing unhelpful
                        things to his nose over a washstand.) "What do you mean by,
                        'Where, where, where?'" Mr. Schofield demanded.
                        "I don't see any sense to it."
                    "But where is your old classmate?" she cried.
                        "Where's Mr. Gilling?"
                    She was the first to notice this striking absence.
                    "By George!" Mr. Schofield exclaimed. "Where is old Joe?"
                    Margaret intervened. "You mean that tall, pale man who was
                        calling?" she asked.
                    "Pale, no!" said her father. "He's as
                        flushed as"
                    "He was pale when I saw him," said
                        Margaret. "He had his hat and coat, and he was trying to get out of
                        the front door when I came running down-stairs. He couldn't work
                        the catch for a minute, but before I got to the foot of the steps he managed
                        to turn it and open the door. He went out before I could think what to say
                        to him, he was in such a hurry. I guess everything was so confused you
                        didn't noticebut he's certainly gone."
                    Mrs. Schofield turned to her husband.
                    
                    "But I thought he was going to stay to dinner!" she cried.
                    Mr. Schofield shook his head, admitting himself floored. Later, having
                        mentally gone over everything that might shed light on the curious behaviour
                        of old Joe, he said, without preface:
                    "He wasn't at all dissipated when we were in
                        college."
                    Mrs. Schofield nodded severely. "Maybe this was just the best thing
                        could have happened to him, after all," she said.
                    "It may be," returned her husband. "I
                        don't say it isn't. But that
                        isn't going to make any difference in what I'm going to do
                        to Penrod!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    YEARNINGS
                    
                        THE next day a new ambition entered into Penrod Schofield;
                        it was heralded by a flourish of trumpets and set up a great noise within
                        his being.
                    On his way home from Sunday-school he had paused at a corner to listen to a
                        brass band, which was returning from a funeral, playing a medley of airs
                        from "The Merry Widow," and as the musicians came down the
                        street, walking so gracefully, the sun picked out the gold braid upon their
                        uniforms and splashed fire from their polished instruments. Penrod marked
                        the shapes of the great bass horns, the suave sculpture of their brazen
                        coils, and the grand, sensational flare of their mouths. And he saw plainly
                        that these noble things, to be mastered, needed no more than some breath
                        blown into them during the fingering of a few simple keys. Then obediently
                        they gave forth those vast but dulcet sounds which stirred his spirit as no
                        other sounds could stir it quite.
                    
                    The leader of the band, walking ahead, was a pleasing figure, nothing more.
                        Penrod supposed him to be a mere decoration, and had never sympathized with
                        Sam Williams' deep feeling about drum-majors. The cornets, the
                        trombones, the smaller horns were rather interesting, of course; and the
                        drums had charm, especially the bass drum, which must be partially supported
                        by a youth in front; but, immeasurably above all these, what fascinated
                        Penrod was the little man with the monster horn. There Penrod's
                        widening eyes remained transfixedupon the horn, so dazzling, with its broad
                        spaces of brassy high lights, and so overwhelming, with its mouth as wide as
                        a tub, that there was something almost threatening about it.
                    The little, elderly band-musician walked man-fully as he blew his great horn;
                        and in that pompous engine of sound, the boy beheld a spectacle of huge
                        forces under human control. To Penrod, the horn meant power, and the
                        musician meant mastery over power, though, of course, Penrod did not know
                        that this was how he really felt about the matter.
                    Grandiloquent sketches were passing and interchanging before his
                        mind's eyePenrod, in noble  raiment,
                        marching down the staring street, his shoulders swaying professionally, the
                        roar of the horn he bore submerging all other sounds; Penrod on horse-back,
                        blowing the enormous horn and leading wild hordes to battle, while Marjorie
                        Jones looked on from the sidewalk; Penrod astounding his mother and father
                        and sister by suddenly serenading them in the library. "Why,
                        Penrod, where did you learn to play like this?"
                    These were vague and shimmering glories of vision rather than definite plans
                        for his life work, yet he did with all his will determine to own and play
                        upon some roaring instrument of brass. And, after all, this was no new
                        desire of his; it was only an old one inflamed to take a new form. Nor was
                        music the root of it, for the identical desire is often uproarious among
                        them that hate music. What stirred in Penrod was new neither in him nor in
                        the world, but oldold as old Adam, old as the childishness of man. All
                        children have it, of course: they are all anxious to Make a Noise in the
                        World.
                    While the band approached, Penrod marked the time with his feet; then he fell
                        into step and accompanied the musicians down the street, keeping as near as
                        possible to the little man with the big horn. 
                        There were four or five other boys, strangers, also marching with the band,
                        but these were light spirits, their flushed faces and prancing legs proving
                        that they were merely in a state of emotional reaction to music. Penrod, on
                        the contrary, was grave. He kept his eyes upon the big horn, and, now and
                        then, he gave an imitation of it. His fingers moved upon invisible keys, his
                        cheeks puffed out, and, from far down in his throat, he produced strange
                        sounds: "Taw, p'taw-p'taw! Taw,
                        p'taw-p'taw! PAW!"
                    The other boys turned back when the musicians ceased to play, but Penrod
                        marched on, still keeping close to what so inspired him. He stayed with the
                        band till the last member of it disappeared up a staircase in an
                        office-building, down at the business end of the street; and even after that
                        he lingered a while, looking at the staircase.
                    Finally, however, he set his face toward home, whither he marched in a
                        procession, the visible part of which consisted of himself alone. All the
                        way the rhythmic movements of his head kept time with his marching feet and,
                        also, with a slight rise and fall of his fingers at about the median line of
                        his abdomen. And pedestrians who encountered him in this preoccupation were
                        not surprised to hear, as  he passed, a few
                        explosive little vocalizations: "Taw,
                        p'taw-p'taw! TAw! Taw-aw-HAW!"
                    These were the outward symptoms of no fleeting impulse, but of steadfast
                        desire; therefore they were persistent. The likeness of the great bass horn
                        remained upon the retina of his mind's eye, losing nothing of its
                        brazen enormity with the passing of hours, nor abating, in his
                        mind's ear, one whit of its fascinating blatancy. Penrod might have
                        forgotten almost anything else more readily; for such a horn has this double
                        compulsion: people cannot possibly keep themselves from looking at its
                        possessorand they certainly have GOT to listen to him!
                    Penrod was preoccupied at dinner and during the evening, now and then causing
                        his father some irritation by croaking, "Taw,
                        p'taw-p'taw!" while the latter was talking. And
                        when bedtime came for the son of the house, he mounted the stairs in a
                        rhythmic manner, and p'tawed himself through the upper hall as far
                        as his own chamber.
                    Even after he had gone to bed, there came a revival of these manifestations.
                        His mother had put out his light for him and had returned to the library
                        downstairs; three-quarters of an hour had elapsed since then, and Margaret
                        was in her room, next to  his, when a
                        continuous low croaking (which she was just able to bear) suddenly broke out
                        into loud, triumphal blattings:
                    "TAW, p'taw-p'taw-aw-HAW!
                        P'taw-WAW-aw! Aw-PAW!"
                    "Penrod," Margaret called, "stop that!
                        I'm trying to write letters. If you don't quit and go to
                        sleep, I'll call papa up, and you'll see!"
                    
                    The noise ceased, or, rather, it tapered down to a desultory faint croaking
                        which finally died out; but there can be little doubt that Penrod's
                        last waking thoughts were of instrumental music. And in the morning, when he
                        woke to face the gloomy day's scholastic tasks, something unusual
                        and eager dawned in his face with the return of memory.
                        "Taw-p'taw!" he began, "PAW!"
                    All day, in school and out, his mind was busy with computationsnot such as
                        are prescribed by mathematical pedants, but estimates of how much old rags
                        and old iron would sell for enough money to buy a horn. Happily, the next
                        day, at lunch, he was able to dismiss this problem from his mind: he learned
                        that his Uncle Joe would be passing through town, on his way from Nevada,
                        the following afternoon, and all the Schofield family were to go to the  station to see him. Penrod would be excused
                        from school.
                    At this news his cheeks became pink, and for a moment he was breathless.
                        Uncle Joe and Penrod did not meet often, but, when they did, Uncle Joe
                        invariably gave Penrod money. Moreover, he always managed to do it
                        privately, so that later there was no bothersome supervision. Last time he
                        had given Penrod a silver dollar.
                    At thirty-five minutes after two, Wednesday afternoon, Uncle Joe's
                        train came into the station, and Uncle Joe got out and shouted among his
                        relatives At eighteen minutes before three he was waving to them from the
                        platform of the last car, having just slipped a two-dollar bill into
                        Penrod's breast-pocket. And, at seven minutes after three, Penrod
                        opened the door of the largest "music store" in town.
                    A tall, exquisite, fair man, evidently a musical earl, stood before him,
                        leaning whimsically upon a piano of the highest polish. The sight abashed
                        Penrod not a bithis remarkable financial condition even made him rather
                        peremptory.
                    "See here," he said brusquely: "I want to look at
                        that big horn in the window."
                    
                    "Very well," said the earl; "look at it."
                        And he leaned more luxuriously upon the polished piano.
                    "I meant" Penrod began, but paused, something daunted,
                        while an unnamed fear brought greater mildness into his voice, as he
                        continued, "I meantI How much is that big
                        horn?"
                    "How much?" the earl repeated.
                    "I mean," said Penrod, "how much is it
                        worth?"
                    "I don't know," the earl returned. "Its
                        price is eighty-five dollars."
                    "Eighty-fi" Penrod began mechanically, but was forced to
                        pause and swallow a little air that obstructed his throat, as the difference
                        between eighty. five and two became more and more startling. He had entered
                        the store, rich; in the last ten seconds he had become poverty-stricken.
                        Eighty-five dollars was the same as eighty-five millions.
                    "Shall I put it aside for you," asked the salesman-earl,
                        "while you look around the other stores to see if there's
                        anything you like better?"
                    "I guessI guess not," said Penrod, whose face had grown
                        red. He swallowed again, scraped the floor with the side of his right shoe,
                        scratched the back of his neck, and then, trying to make his manner casual
                        and easy, "Well I can't stand around  here all day," he said. "I got to be gettin
                        on up the street."
                    "Business, I suppose?"
                    Penrod, turning to the door, suspected jocularity, but he found himself
                        without recourse; he was nonplussed.
                    "Sure you won't let me have that horn tied up in nice
                        wrapping-paper in case you decide to take it?"
                    Penrod was almost positive that the spirit of this question was satirical;
                        but he was unable to reply, except by a feeble shake of the headthough ten
                        minutes later, as he plodded forlornly his homeward way, he looked over his
                        shoulder and sent backward a few words of morose repartee:
                    "Oh, I am, am I?" he muttered, evidently concluding a
                        conversation which he had continued men-tally with the salesman.
                        "Well, you're double anything you call me, so that makes
                        you a smart Aleck twice! Ole double smart Aleck!"
                    After that, he walked with the least bit more briskness, but not much. No
                        wonder he felt discouraged: there are times when eighty-five dollars can be
                        a blow to anybody! Penrod was so stunned that he actually forgot what was in
                        his pocket. He  passed two drug stores, and
                        they had absolutely no meaning to him. He walked all the way without
                        spending a cent.
                    At home he spent a moment in the kitchen pantry while the cook was in the
                        cellar; then he went out to the stable and began some really pathetic
                        experiments. His materials were the small tin funnel which he had obtained
                        in the pantry, and a short section of old garden hose. He inserted the
                        funnel into one end of the garden hose, and made it fast by wrappings of
                        cord. Then he arranged the hose in a double, circular coil, tied it so that
                        it would remain coiled, and blew into the other end.
                    He blew and blew and blew; he set his lips tight together, as he had observed
                        the little musician with the big horn set his, and blew and sputtered, and
                        sputtered and blew, but nothing of the slightest importance happened in the
                        orifice of the funnel. Still he blew. He began to be dizzy; his eyes
                        watered; his expression became as horrible as a strangled person's.
                        He but blew the more. He stamped his feet and blew. He staggered to the
                        wheelbarrow, sat, and blewand yet the funnel uttered nothing; it seemed
                        merely to breathe hard.
                    It would not sound like a horn, and, when Penrod  finally gave up, he had to admit piteously that it did not look like a
                        horn. No boy over nine could have pretended that it was a horn.
                    He tossed the thing upon the floor, and leaned back in the wheelbarrow,
                        inert.
                    "Yay, Penrod!"
                    Sam Williams appeared in the doorway, and, behind Sam, Master Roderick
                        Magsworth Bitts, Junior.
                    "Yay, there!"
                    Penrod made no response.
                    The two came in, and Sam picked up the poor contrivance Penrod had tossed
                        upon the floor.
                    "What's this ole dingus?" Sam asked.
                    "Nothin'."
                    "Well, what's it for?"
                    "Nothin'," said Penrod. "It's a
                        kind of a horn."
                    "What kind?"
                    "For music" said Penrod simply.
                    Master Bitts laughed loud and long; he was derisive.
                        "Music!" he yipped. "I thought you meant a
                        cow's horn! He says it's a music-horn, Sam? What you think
                        o' that?"
                    Sam blew into the thing industriously.
                    "It won't work," he announced.
                    
                    "Course it won't!" Roddy Bitts shouted.
                        "You can't make it go without you got a real horn. I'm goin' to get me a real horn some day
                        before long, and then you'll see me goin' up and down here
                        playin' it like sixty! I'll"
                    "'Some day before long!'" Sam mocked.
                        "Yes, we will! Why'n't you get it to-day, if
                        you're goin' to?"
                    "I would," said Roddy. "I'd go get the
                        money from my father right now, only he wouldn't give it to
                        me."
                    Sam whooped, and Penrod, in spite of his great depression, uttered a few
                        jibing sounds.
                    "I'd get my father to buy me a
                        fire-engine and team o' horses," Sam
                        bellowed, "only he wouldn't!"
                    "Listen, can't you?" cried Roddy. "I mean
                        he would most any time, but not this month. I can't have any money
                        for a month beginning last Saturday, because I got paint on one of our dogs,
                        and he came in the house with it on him, and got some on pretty near
                        everything. If it hadn't 'a' been for
                        that"
                    "Oh, yes!" said Sam. "If it hadn't
                        'a' been for that! It's always sumpthing!"
                    
                    "It is not!"
                    
                    "Well, then, why'n't you go get
                        a real horn?"
                    Roddy's face had flushed with irritation.
                    "Well, didn't I just tell you"
                        he began, but paused, while the renewal of some interesting recollection
                        became visible in his expression. "Why, I could,
                        if I wanted to," he said more calmly. "It
                        wouldn't be a new one, maybe. I guess it would be kind of an old
                        one, but"
                    "Oh, a toy horn!" said Sam. "I expect one you had
                        when you were three years old, and your mother stuck it up in the attic to
                        keep till you're dead, or sumpthing!"
                    "It's not either any toy horn," Roddy insisted.
                        "It's a reg'lar horn for a band, and I could have
                        it as easy as anything."
                    The tone of this declaration was so sincere that it roused the lethargic
                        Penrod.
                    "Roddy, is that true?" he sat up to inquire piercingly.
                    "Of course it is!" Master Bitts returned. "What
                        you take me for? I could go get that horn this minute if I wanted
                        to."
                    "A real onehonest?"
                    "Well, didn't I say it was a real one?"
                    "Like in the band?"
                    
                    
                    "I said so, didn't I?"
                    "I guess you mean one of those little ones," said Penrod.
                    "No, sir!" Roddy insisted stoutly; "it's
                        a big one! It winds around in a big circle that would go all the way around
                        a pretty fat man."
                    "What store is it in?"
                    "It's not in any store," said Roddy.
                        "It's at my Uncle Ethelbert's. He's got
                        this horn and three or four pianos and a couple o' harps
                        and"
                    "Does he keep a music store?"
                    "No. These harps and pianos and all such are old onesawful
                        old."
                    "Oh," said Sam, "he runs a second-hand
                        store!"
                    "He does not!" Master Bitts returned angrily. "He
                        doesn't do anything. He's just got
                        'em. He's got forty-one guitars"
                    "Yay!" Sam whooped, and jumped up and down.
                        "Listen to Roddy Bitts makin' up lies!"
                    "You look out, Sam Williams!" said Roddy threat-eningly.
                        "You look out how you call me names!"
                    "What name'd I call you?"
                    "You just the same as said I told lies. That's just as good
                        as callin' me a liar, isn't it?"
                    
                    "No," said Sam; "but I got a right to, if I want
                        to. Haven't I, Penrod?"
                    "How?" Roddy demanded hotly. "How you got a right
                        to?"
                    "Because you can't prove what you said."
                    "Well," said Roddy, "you'd be just as
                        much of one if you can't prove what I said wasn't true."
                    "No, sir! You either got to prove it or be a liar. Isn't
                        that so, Penrod.
                    "Yes, sir," Penrod ruled, with a little importance.
                        "That's the way it is, Roddy."
                    "Well, then," said Roddy, "come on over to my
                        Uncle Ethelbert's, and I'll show you!"
                    "No," said Sam. "I wouldn't walk over
                        there just to find out sumpthing I already know isn't so. Outside
                        of a music store there isn't anybody in the world got forty-one
                        guitars! I've heard lots o' people talk,
                        but I never heard such a big I"
                    "You shut up!" shouted Roddy. "You ole"
                    Penrod interposed.
                    "Why'n't you show us the horn, Roddy?" he
                        asked. "You said you could get it. You show us the horn and
                        we'll believe you. If you show us the horn, Sam'll haf to
                        take what he said back; won't you, Sam?"
                    
                    "Yes," said Sam, and added: "He hasn't
                        got any. He went and told a"
                    Roddy's eyes were bright with rage; he breathed noisily.
                    "I haven't?" he cried. "You just wait
                        here, and I'll show you!"
                    And he ran furiously from the stable.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    THE HORN OF FAME
                    
                        BET he won't come back!" said Sam.
                    "Well, he might."
                    "Well, if he does and he hasn't got any horn, I got a right
                        to call him anything I want to, and he's got to stand it. And if he
                        doesn't come back," Sam continued, as by the code,
                        "then I got a right to call him whatever I like next time I ketch
                        him out."
                    "I expect he'll have some kind of ole
                        horn, maybe," said Penrod.
                    "No," the skeptical Sam insisted, "he
                        won't."
                    But Roddy did. Twenty minutes elapsed, and both the waiting boys had decided
                        that they were legally entitled to call him whatever they thought fitting,
                        when he burst in, puffing; and in his hands he bore a horn. It was a
                        "real" one, and of a kind that neither Penrod nor Sam had
                        ever seen before, though they failed to realize this, because its shape was
                        instantly familiar to them. No horn could have  been simpler: it consisted merely of one circular coil of brass with a
                        mouthpiece at one end for the musician, and a wide-flaring mouth of its own,
                        for the noise, at the other. But it was obviously a secondhand horn; dents
                        slightly marred it, here and there, and its surface was dull, rather
                        greenish. There were no keys; and a badly faded green cord and tassel hung
                        from the coil.
                    Even so shabby a horn as this electrified Penrod. It was not a stupendous
                        horn, but it was a horn; and when a boy has been sighing for the moon, a
                        piece of green cheese will satisfy him, for he can play that it is the moon.
                    "Gimme that horn!" Penrod shouted, as he
                        dashed for it.
                    
                        "Yay!" Sam cried, and sought to wrest it
                        from him. Roddy joined the scuffle, trying to retain the horn; but Penrod
                        managed to secure it. With one free hand he fended the others off while he
                        blew into the mouthpiece.
                    "Let me have it," Sam urged. "You can't
                        do anything with it. Lemme take it, Penrod."
                    "No!" said Roddy. "Let me! My
                        goodness! Ain't I got any right to blow my own horn?"
                    They pressed upon Penrod, who frantically fended  and frantically blew. At last he remembered to compress his lips, and
                        force the air through the compression.
                    A magnificent snort from the horn was his reward. He removed his lips from
                        the mouthpiece, and capered in pride.
                    "Hah!" he cried. "Hear that? I guess I can't play this good ole horn! Oh, no!"
                    During his capers, Sam captured the horn. But Sam had not made the best of
                        his opportunities as an observer of bands; he thrust the mouthpiece deep
                        into his mouth, and blew until his expression became one of agony.
                    "No, no!" Penrod exclaimed. "You haven't
                        got the secret of blowin' a horn, Sam. What's the use your
                        keepin' hold of it, when you don't know any more about it
                        'n that? It ain't makin' a sound! You lemme have
                        that good ole horn back, Sam. Haven't you got sense enough to see I
                        know how to play?"
                    
                    Laying hands upon it, he jerked it away from Sam, who was a little piqued
                        over the failure of his own efforts, especially as Penrod now produced a
                        sonorous blatquite a long one. Sam became cross.
                    "My goodness!" Roddy Bitts said peevishly.  "Ain't I ever
                        goin' to get a turn at my own horn? Here you've had two
                        turns, Penrod, and even Sam Williams"
                    Sam's petulance at once directed itself toward Roddy partly because
                        of the latter's tactless use of the word "even,"
                        and the two engaged in controversy, while Penrod was left free to continue
                        the experiments which so enraptured him.
                    "Your own horn!" Sam sneered. "I bet it
                        isn't yours! Anyway, you can't prove it's yours,
                        and that gives me a right to call you any"
                    "You better not! It is, too, mine. It's just the same as
                        mine!"
                    "No, sir," said Sam; "I bet you got to take it
                        back where you got it, and that's not anything like the same as
                        yours; so I got a perfect right to call you whatev"
                    "I do not haf to take it back where I got it,
                        either!" Roddy cried, more and more irritated by his
                        opponent's persistence in stating his rights in this matter.
                    "I bet they told you to bring it back,"
                        said Sam tauntingly.
                    "They didn't, either! There wasn't anybody
                        there."
                    
                    "Yay! Then you got to get it back before they know it's
                        gone."
                    "I don't either any such a thing! I heard my Uncle
                        Ethelbert say Sunday he didn't want it. He said he wished
                        somebody'd take that horn off his hands so's he could buy
                        sumpthing else. That's just exactly what he said. I heard him tell
                        my mother. He said, 'I guess I prackly got to give it away if
                        I'm ever goin' to get rid of it.' Well, when my
                        own uncle says he wants to give a horn away, and he wishes he could get rid
                        of it, I guess it's just the same as mine, soon as I go and take
                        it, isn't it? I'm goin' to keep it."
                    Sam was shaken, but he had set out to demonstrate those rights of his and did
                        not mean to yield them.
                    "Yes; you'll have a nice time,"
                        he said, "next time your uncle goes to play on that horn and
                        can't find it. No, sir; I got a perfect ri"
                    "My uncle don't play on it!"
                        Roddy shrieked. "It's an ole wore-out horn nobody wants,
                        and it's mine, I tell you! I can blow on it, or bust it, or kick it
                        out in the alley and leave it there, if I want to!"
                    "No, you can't!"
                    
                    "I can, too!"
                    "No, you can't. You can't prove
                        you can, and unless you prove it, I got a perf"
                    Roddy stamped his foot. "I can, too!" he shrieked.
                        "You ole durn jackass, I can, too! I can, can, can, can"
                    Penrod suddenly stopped his intermittent production of blats, and intervened,
                            "I know how you can prove it,
                        Roddy," he said briskly. "There's one way anybody
                        can always prove sumpthing belongs to them, so that nobody'd have a
                        right to call them what they wanted to. You can prove it's yours,
                            easy!"
                    
                    "How?"
                    "Well," said Penrod, "if you give it
                        away."
                    "What you mean?" asked Roddy, frowning.
                    "Well, look here," Penrod began brightly. "You
                        can't give anything away that doesn't belong to you, can
                        you?"
                    "No."
                    "So, then," the resourceful boy continued,
                        "f'r instance, if you give this ole horn to me,
                        that'd prove it was yours, and Sam'd haf to say it was,
                        and he wouldn't have any right to"
                    "I won't do it!" said Roddy sourly. "I
                        don't  want to give you that horn.
                        What I want to give you anything at all for?"
                    Penrod sighed, as if the task of reaching Roddy's mind with reason
                        were too heavy for him. "Well, if you don't want to prove
                        it, and rather let us have the right to call you anything we want towell,
                        all right, then," he said.
                    "You look out what you call me!" Roddy cried, only the more
                        incensed, in spite of the pains Penrod was taking with him. "I
                        don't haf to prove it. It's mine!"
                    
                    "What kind o' proof is that?" Sam Williams
                        demanded severely. "You got to prove it and you
                        can't do it!"
                    Roddy began a reply, but his agitation was so great that what he said had not
                        attained coherency when Penrod again intervened. He had just remembered
                        something important.
                    "Oh, I know, Roddy!" he exclaimed.
                        "If you sell it, that'd prove it was yours almost as good
                        as givin' it away. What'll you take for it?"
                    "I don't want to sell it," said Roddy sulkily.
                    "Yay! Yay! YAY!" shouted the taunting Sam Williams, whose
                        every word and sound had now become almost unbearable to Master Bitts. Sam
                             was usually so good-natured that the only
                        explanation of his conduct must lie in the fact that Roddy constitutionally
                        got on his nerves. "He knows he can't
                        prove it! He's a goner, and now we can begin callin' him
                        anything we can think of! I choose to call him one first, Penrod. Roddy,
                        you're a"
                    "Wait!" shouted Penrod, for he really believed
                        Roddy's claims to be both moral and legal. When an uncle who does
                        not even play upon an old secondhand horn wishes to get rid of that horn,
                        and even complains of having it on his hands, it seems reasonable to
                        consider that the horn becomes the property of a nephew who has gone to the
                        trouble of carrying the undesired thing out of the house.
                    Penrod determined to deal fairly. The difference between this horn and the
                        one in the "music-store" window seemed to him just about
                        the difference between two and eighty-five. He drew forth the green bill
                        from his pocket.
                    "Roddy," he said, "I'll give you two
                        dollars for that horn."
                    Sam Williams's mouth fell open; he was silenced indeed. But for a
                        moment, the confused and badgered Roddy was incredulous; he had not dreamed
                        that Penrod possessed such a sum.
                    
                    "Lemme take a look at that money!" he said.
                    If at first there had been in Roddy's mind a little doubt about his
                        present rights of ownership, he had talked himself out of it. Also, his
                        financial supplies for the month were cut off, on account of the careless
                        dog. Finally, he thought that the horn was worth about fifty cents.
                    "I'll do it, Penrod!" he said with decision.
                    Thereupon Penrod shouted aloud, prancing up and down the carriage-house with
                        the horn. Roddy was happy, too, and mingled his voice with
                        Penrod's.
                    "Hi! Hi! Hi!" shouted Roddy Bitts. "I'm
                        goin' to buy me an air-gun down at Fox's hardware
                        store!"
                    And he departed, galloping.
                    . . . He returned the following afternoon. School was over, and Penrod and
                        Sam were again in the stable; Penrod "was practising" upon
                        the horn, with Sam for an unenthusiastic spectator and auditor. Master
                        Bitts' brow was heavy; he looked uneasy.
                    "Penrod," he began, "I got to"
                    Penrod removed the horn briefly from his lips.
                    "Don't come bangin' around here and
                        interrup' me all the time," he said severely. "I
                        got to practise."
                    
                    And he again pressed the mouthpiece to his lips. He was not of those whom
                        importance makes gracious.
                    "Look here, Penrod," said Roddy, "I got to have
                        that horn back."
                    Penrod lowered the horn quickly enough at this.
                    "What you talkin' about?" he demanded.
                        "What you want to come bangin' around here for
                        and"
                    "I came around here for that horn," Master Bitts returned,
                        and his manner was both dogged and apprehensive, the apprehension being more
                        prevalent when he looked at Sam. "I got to have that
                        horn," he said.
                    Sam, who had been sitting in the wheelbarrow, jumped up and began to dance
                        triumphantly.
                    "Yay! It wasn't his, after all! Roddy
                        Bitts told a big I"
                    "I never, either!" Roddy almost wailed.
                    "Well, what you want the horn back for?" the terrible Sam
                        demanded.
                    "Well, 'cause I want it. I got a right to want it if I want
                        to, haven't I?"
                    Penrod's face had flushed with indignation.
                    "You look here, Sam," he began hotly.
                        "Didn't you hear Roddy say this was his horn?"
                    
                    "He said it!" Sam declared. "He said it a million
                        times!"
                    "Well, and didn't he sell this horn to me?"
                    "Yes, sir!"
                    "Didn't I pay him money cash down for it?"
                    "Two dollars!"
                    "Well, and ain't it my horn now, Sam?"
                    "You bet you!"
                    "Yes, sir!" Penrod went on with vigour.
                        "It's my horn now whether it belonged to you or not,
                        Roddy, because you sold it to me and I paid my good ole
                        money for it. I guess a thing belongs to the person that paid their own
                        money for it, doesn't it? I don't haf to
                        give up my own propaty, even if you did come on over here and told us a big
                        1"
                    "I never!" shouted Roddy. "It
                        was my horn, too, and I didn't tell any such a thing!" He
                        paused; then, reverting to his former manner, said stubbornly, "I
                        got to have that horn back. I got to!"
                    "Why'n't you tell us what for,
                        then?" Sam insisted.
                    Roddy's glance at this persecutor was one of anguish.
                    "I know my own biz'nuss!" he muttered.
                    And while Sam jeered, Roddy turned to Penrod desperately.
                    
                    "You gimme that horn back! I got to have it."
                    But Penrod followed Sam's lead.
                    "Well, why can't you tell us what for?" he asked.
                    Perhaps if Sam had not been there, Roddy could have unbosomed himself. He had
                        no doubt of his own virtue in this affair, and he was conscious that he had
                        acted in good faith throughoutthough, perhaps, a little impulsively. But he
                        was in a pre-dicament, and he knew that if he became more explicit, Sam
                        could establish with undeniable logic those rights about which he had been
                        so odious the day before. Such triumph for Sam was not within
                        Roddy's power to contemplate; he felt that he would rather die, or
                        sumpthing.
                    "I got to have that horn!" he reiterated woodenly.
                    Penrod had no intention to humour this preposterous boy, and it was only out
                        of curiosity that he asked, "Well, if you want the horn back,
                        where's the two dollars?"
                    "I spent it. I bought an air-gun for a dollar and sixty-five cents,
                        and three sodies and some candy with the rest. I'll owe you the two
                        dollars, Penrod. I'm willing to do that much."
                    "Well, why don't you give him the air-gun," asked
                        the satirical Sam, "and owe him the rest?"
                    
                    "I can't. Papa took the air-gun away from me because he
                        didn't like sumpthing I did with it. I got to owe you the whole two
                        dollars, Penrod."
                    "Look here, Roddy," said Penrod. "Don't
                        you s'pose I'd rather keep this horn and blow on it than
                        have you owe me two dollars?"
                    There was something about this simple question which convinced Roddy that his
                        cause was lost. His hopes had been but faint from the beginning of the
                        interview.
                    "Well" said Roddy. For a time he scuffed the floor with his
                        shoe. "Daw-gone it!" he said, at last; and he departed
                        morosely.
                    Penrod had already begun to "practise" again, and Mr.
                        Williams, after vain appeals to be permitted to practise in turn, sank into
                        the wheelbarrow in a state of boredom, not remarkable under the
                        circumstances. Then Penrod contrivedit may have been accidentalto produce at
                        one blast two tones which varied in pitch.
                    His pride and excitement were extreme though not contagious.
                        "Listen, Sam!" he shouted. "How's that for high?"
                    The bored Sam made no response other than to rise languidly to his feet,
                        stretch, and start for home.
                    
                    Left alone, Penrod's practice became less ardent; he needed the
                        stimulus of an auditor. With the horn upon his lap he began to rub the
                        greenish brass surface with a rag. He meant to make this good ole two-dollar
                        horn of his look like sumpthing!
                    Presently, moved by a better idea, he left the horn in the stable and went
                        into the house, soon afterward appearing before his mother in the library.
                    "Mamma," he said, complainingly, "Della
                        won't"
                    But Mrs. Schofield checked him.
                    "Sh, Penrod; your father's reading the paper."
                    Penrod glanced at Mr. Schofield, who sat near the window, reading by the last
                        light of the early sunset.
                    "Well, I know it," said Penrod, lowering his voice.
                        "But I wish you'd tell Della to let me have the silver
                        polish. She says she won't, and I want to"
                    "Be quiet, Penrod, you can't have the silver
                        polish."
                    "But, mamma"
                    "Not another word. Can't you see you're
                        interrupting your father. Go on, papa."
                    Mr. Schofield read aloud several despatches from abroad, and after each one
                        of them Penrod began in a low but pleading tone:
                    
                    "Mamma, I want"
                    "Sh, Penrod!"
                    Mr. Schofield continued to read, and Penrod remained in the room, for he was
                        determined to have the silver polish.
                    "Here's something curious," said Mr. Schofield, as
                        his eye fell upon a paragraph among the "locals."
                    "What?"
                    "Valuable relic missing," Mr. Schofield read. "It
                        was reported at police headquarters to-day that a valuable object had been
                        stolen from the collection of antique musical instruments owned by E.
                        Magsworth Bitts, 724 Central Avenue. The police insist that it must have
                        been an inside job, but Mr. Magsworth Bitts inclines to think it was the
                        work of a negro, as only one article was removed and nothing else found to
                        be disturbed. The object stolen was an ancient hunting-horn dating from the
                        eighteenth century and claimed to have belonged to Louis XV, King of France.
                        It was valued at about twelve hundred and fifty dollars."
                    Mrs. Schofield opened her mouth wide. "Why, that is curious!" she exclaimed.
                    She jumped up. "Penrod!"
                    
                    But Penrod was no longer in the room.
                    "What's the matter?" Mr. Schofield inquired.
                    "Penrod!" said Mrs. Schofield breathlessly. "He bought an old hornlike one in old
                        hunting-picturesyesterday! He bought it with some money Uncle Joe gave him!
                        He bought it from Roddy Bitts!"
                    "Where'd he go?"
                    Together they rushed to the back porch.
                    Penrod had removed the lid of the cistern; he was kneeling beside it, and the
                        fact that the diameter of the opening into the cistern was one inch less
                        than the diameter of the coil of Louis the Fifteenth's hunting-horn
                        was all that had just saved Louis the Fifteenth's hunting-horn from
                        joining the drowned trousers of Herman.
                    Such was Penrod's instinct, and thus loyally he had followed it.
                    . . . He was dragged into the library, expecting anything whatever. The
                        dreadful phrases of the newspaper item rang through his head like the gongs
                        of delirium: "Police headquarters!" "Work of a
                        negro!" "King of France!" "Valued at
                        about twelve hundred and fifty dollars!"
                    
                    Eighty-five dollars had dismayed him; twelve hundred and fifty was
                        unthinkable. Nightmares were coming to life before his eyes.
                    But a light broke slowly; it came first to Mr. and Mrs. Schofield, and it was
                        they who illuminated Penrod. Slowly, slowly, as they spoke more and more
                        pleasantly to him, it began to dawn upon him that this trouble was all
                        Roddy's.
                    And when Mr. Schofield went to take the horn to the house of Mr. Ethelbert
                        Magsworth Bitts, Penrod sat quietly with his mother. Mr. Schofield was gone
                        an hour and a half. Upon his solemn return he reported that Roddy's
                        father had been summoned by telephone to bring his son to the house of Uncle
                        Ethelbert. Mr. Bitts had forthwith appeared with Roddy, and, when Mr.
                        Schofield came away, Roddy was still (after half an hour's previous
                        efforts) explaining his honourable intentions. Mr. Schofield indicated that
                        Roddy's condition was agitated, and that he was having a great deal
                        of difficulty in making his position clear.
                    Penrod's imagination paused outside the threshold of that room in
                        Mr. Ethelbert Magsworth Bitts' house, and awe fell upon him when he
                        thought of it. Roddy seemed to have disappeared within  a shrouding mist where Penrod's mind refused to
                        follow him.
                    "Well, he got back his ole horn!" said Sam after school the
                        next afternoon. "I knew we had a perfect right to
                        call him whatever we wanted to! I bet you hated to give up that good ole
                        horn, Penrod."
                    But Penrod was serene. He was even a little superior.
                    "Pshaw!" he said. "I'm goin' to
                        learn to play on sumpthing better'n any ole horn. It's
                        lots better, because you can carry it around with you anywhere, and you
                        couldn't a horn."
                    "What is it?" Sam asked, not too much pleased by
                        Penrod's air of superiority and high content. "You mean a
                        jew's-harp?"
                    "I guess not! I mean a flute with all silver on it and everything.
                        My father's goin' to buy me one."
                    "I bet he isn't!"
                    "He is, too," said Penrod; "soon as I'm
                        twenty-one years old."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    THE PARTY
                    Miss Amy Rennsdale
                    
                        At Home Saturday, the twenty-third from three to
                        six
                    
                    
                        R. s. v. p. Dancing
                    
                    
                        THIS little card, delicately engraved, betokened the
                        hospitality incidental to the ninth birthday anniversary of Baby Rennsdale,
                        youngest member of the Friday Afternoon Dancing Class, and, by the same
                        token, it represented the total social activity (during that season) of a
                        certain limited bachelor set consisting of Messrs. Penrod Schofield and
                        Samuel Williams. The truth must be faced: Penrod and Sam were seldom invited
                        to small parties; they were considered too imaginative. But in the case of
                        so large an affair as Miss Rennsdale's, the feeling that their
                        parents would be sensitive outweighed fears of what Penrod  and Sam might do at the party. Reputation is
                        indeed a bubble, but sometimes it is blown of sticky stuff.
                    The comrades set out for the fte in company, final maternal outpourings upon
                        deportment and the duty of dancing with the hostess evaporating in their
                        freshly cleaned ears. Both boys, however, were in a state of mind, body, and
                        decoration appropriate to the gala scene they were approaching. Their
                        collars were wide and white; inside the pockets of their overcoats were
                        glistening dancing-pumps-wrapped in tissue-paper; inside their jacket
                        pockets were pleasant-smelling new white gloves, and inside their heads
                        solemn timidity commingled with glittering anticipations. Before them, like
                        a Christmas tree glimpsed through lace curtains, they beheld joy
                        shimmeringmusic, ice-cream, macaroons, tinsel caps, and the starched ladies
                        of their hearts. Penrod and Sam walked demurely yet almost boundingly; their
                        faces were shining but gravethey were on their way to the Party!
                    "Look at there!" said Penrod. "There's
                        Carlie Chitten!"
                    "Where?" Sam asked.
                    "'Cross the street. Haven't you got any
                        eyes?"
                    
                    "Well, whyn't you say he was 'cross the street in
                        the first place?" Sam returned plaintively. "Besides,
                        he's so little you can't hardly see him." This
                        was, of course, a violent exaggeration, though Master Chitten, not yet
                        eleven years old, was an inch or two short for his age.
                        "He's all dressed up," Sam added. "I
                        guess he must be invited."
                    "I bet he does sumpthing," said Penrod.
                    "I bet he does, too," Sam agreed.
                    This was the extent of their comment upon the small person across the street,
                        but, in spite of its non-committal character, the manner of both
                        commentators seemed to indicate that they had just exchanged views upon an
                        interesting and even curious subject. They walked along in silence for
                        several minutes, staring speculatively at Master Chitten.
                    His appearance was pleasant and not remarkable. He was a handsome, dark
                        little boy, with quick eyes and a precociously reserved expression; his air
                        was "well-bred"; he was exquisitely neat, and he had a
                        look of manly competence which grown people found attractive and reassuring.
                        In short, he was a boy of whom a timid adult stranger would have inquired
                        the way with confidence. And yet Sam and Penrod  had mysterious thoughts about himobviously there was something
                        subterranean here.
                    They continued to look at him for the greater part of a block, when, their
                        progress bringing them in sight of Miss Amy Rennsdale's place of
                        residence, their attention was directed to a group of men bearing festal
                        burdensencased violins, a shrouded harp, and other beckoning shapes. There
                        were signs, too, that most of "those invited" intended to
                        miss no moment of this party; guests already indoors watched from the
                        windows the approach of the musicians. Washed boys in black and white, and
                        girls in tender colours converged from various directions, making gayly for
                        the thrilling gatewayand the most beautiful little girl in all the world,
                        Marjorie Jones, of the amber curls, jumped from a carriage step to the
                        curbstone as Penrod and Sam came up. She waved to them.
                    Sam responded heartily, but Penrod, feeling real emotion and seeking to
                        conceal it, muttered, "'Lo, Marjorie!" gruffly,
                        offering no further demonstration. Marjorie paused a moment, expectant, and
                        then, as he did not seize the opportunity to ask her for the first dance,
                        she tried not to look disappointed and ran into the house ahead of the two
                        boys. Penrod  was scarlet; he wished to dance
                        the first dance with Marjorie, and the second and the third and all the
                        other dances, and he strongly desired to sit with her "at
                        refreshments," but he had been unable to ask for a single one of
                        these privileges. It would have been impossible for him to state why he was
                        thus dumb, although the reason was simple and wholly complimentary to
                        Marjorie: she had looked so overpoweringly pretty that she had produced in
                        the bosom of her admirer a severe case of stage fright. That was
                        "all the matter with him," but it was the beginning of his
                        troubles, and he did not recover until he and Sam reached the
                        "gentleman's dressing-room," whither they were
                        directed by a polite coloured man.
                    Here they found a cloud of acquaintances getting into pumps and gloves, and,
                        in a few extreme cases, readjusting hair before a mirror. Some even went so
                        farafter removing their shoes and putting on their pumpsas to wash traces of
                        blacking from their hands in the adjacent bathroom before assuming their
                        gloves. Penrod, being in a strange mood, was one of these, sharing the basin
                        with little Maurice Levy.
                    "Carlie Chitten's here," said Maurice, as they
                        soaped their hands.
                    
                    "I guess I know it," Penrod returned. "I bet he
                        does sumpthing, too."
                    Maurice shook his head ominously. "Well, I'm
                        gettin' tired of it. I know he was the one stuck that cold fried
                        egg in P'fesser Bartet's overcoat pocket at
                        dancin'-school, and ole p'fesser went and blamed it on me.
                        Then, Carlie, he c'm up to me, th' other day, and he says,
                        'Smell my buttonhole bokay.' He had some vi'lets
                        stickin' in his buttonhole, and I went to smell 'em and
                        water squirted on me out of 'em. I guess I've stood about
                        enough, and if he does another thing I don't like, he better look
                        out!"
                    Penrod showed some interest, inquiring for details, whereupon Maurice
                        explained that if Master Chitten displeased him further, Master Chitten
                        would receive a blow upon one of his features. Maurice was simple and homely
                        about it, seeking rhetorical vigour rather than elegance; in fact, what he
                        definitely promised Master Chitten was "a bang on the
                        snoot."
                    "Well," said Penrod, "he never bothered me any. I expect he knows too much for that!"
                    A cry of pain was heard from the dressing-room at this juncture, and,
                        glancing through the doorway,  Maurice and
                        Penrod beheld Sam Williams in the act of sucking his right thumb with
                        vehemence, the while his brow was contorted and his eyes watered. He came
                        into the bathroom and held his thumb under a faucet.
                    "That darn little Carlie Chitten!" he complained,
                        "He ast me to hold a little tin box he showed me. He told me to
                        hold it between my thumb and fingers and he'd show me sumpthing.
                        Then he pushed the lid, and a big needle came out of a hole and stuck me
                        half through my thumb. That's a nice way to act,
                        isn't it?"
                    Carlie Chitten's dark head showed itself cautiously beyond the
                        casing of the door.
                    "How's your thumb, Sam?" he asked.
                    "You wait!" Sam shouted, turning furiously, but the small
                        prestidigitator was gone. With a smothered laugh, Carlie dashed through the
                        groups of boys in the dressing-room and made his way downstairs, his manner
                        reverting to its usual polite gravity before he entered the drawing-room,
                        where his hostess waited. Music sounding at about this time, he was followed
                        by the other boys, who came trooping down, leaving the dressing-room empty.
                    Penrod, among the tail-enders of the procession,  made his dancing-school bow to Miss Rennsdale and her grown-up supporters
                        (two maiden aunts and a governess) then he looked about for Marjorie,
                        discovering her but too easily. Her amber curls were swaying gently in time
                        to the music; she looked never more beautiful, and her partner was Master
                        Chitten!
                    A pang of great penetrative power and equal un-expectedness found the most
                        vulnerable spot be-neath the simple black of Penrod Schofield's
                        jacket. Straightway he turned his back upon the crash-covered floors where
                        the dancers were, and moved gloomily toward the hall. But one of the maiden
                        aunts Rennsdale waylaid him.
                    "It's Penrod Schofield, isn't it?" she
                        asked. "Or Sammy Williams? I'm not sure which. Is it
                        Penrod?"
                    "Ma'am?" he said.
                        "Yes'm."
                    "Well, Penrod, I can find a partner for you. There are several dear
                        little girls over here, if you'll come with me."
                    "Well" He paused, shifted from one foot to the other, and
                        looked enigmatic. "I better not," he said. He meant no
                        offence; his trouble was only that he had not yet learned how to do as he
                        pleased  at a party and, at the same time, to
                        seem polite about it. "I guess I don't want to,"
                        he added.
                    "Very well!" And Miss Rennsdale instantly left him to his
                        own devices.
                    He went to lurk in the wide doorway between the hall and the
                        drawing-roomunder such conditions the universal refuge of his sex at all
                        ages. There he found several boys of notorious shyness, and stood with them
                        in a mutually protective group. Now and then one of them would lean upon
                        another until repelled by action and a husky "What's
                        matter 'th you? Get off o' me!" They all twisted
                        their slender necks uneasily against the inner bands of their collars at
                        intervals, and sometimes exchanged facetious blows under cover. In the
                        distance Penrod caught glimpses of amber curls flashing to and fro, and he
                        knew himself to be among the derelicts.
                    He remained in this questionable sanctuary during the next dance, but, edging
                        along the wall to lean more comfortably in a corner, as the music of the
                        third sounded, he overheard part of a conversation which somewhat concerned
                        him. The participants were the governess of his hostess, Miss Lowe, and that
                        one of the aunts Rennsdale who had offered to provide him with a partner.
                        These two ladies were standing  just in front
                        of him, unconscious of his nearness.
                    "I never," said Miss Rennsdale, "never saw a more fascinating little boy than that Carlie Chitten.
                        There'll be some heartaches when he grows up; I can't keep
                        my eyes off him."
                    "Yes; he's a charming boy," said Miss Lowe.
                        "His manners are remarkable."
                    "He's a little man of the world," the enthusiastic
                        Miss Rennsdale went on, "very different from such boys as Penrod
                        Schofield!"
                    "Oh, Penrod!" Miss Lowe exclaimed.
                        "Good gracious!"
                    "I don't see why he came. He declines to dancerudely,
                        too!"
                    "I don't think the little girls will mind that so much!" Miss Lowe said. "If you'd
                        come to the dancing class some Friday with Amy and me, you'd
                        understand why."
                    They moved away. Penrod heard his name again mentioned between them as they
                        went, and though he did not catch the accompanying remark, he was inclined
                        to think it unfavourable. He remained where he was, brooding morbidly.
                    He understood that the government was against 
                        him, nor was his judgment at fault in this conclusion. He was affected,
                        also, by the conduct of Marjorie, who was now dancing gayly with Maurice
                        Levy, a former rival of Penrod's. The fact that Penrod had not gone
                        near her did not make her culpability seem the less; in his gloomy heart he
                        resolved not to ask her for one single dance. He would not go near her. He
                        would not go near any of 'em!
                    
                    His eyes began to burn, and he swallowed heavily; but he was never one to
                        succumb piteously to such emotion, and it did not even enter his head that
                        he was at liberty to return to his own home. Neither he nor any of his
                        friends had ever left a party until it was officially concluded. What his
                        sufferings demanded of him now for their alleviation was not departure but
                        action!
                    Underneath the surface, nearly all children's parties contain a
                        group of outlaws who wait only for a leader to hoist the black flag. The
                        group consists mainly of boys too shy to be at ease with the girls, but who
                        wish to distinguish themselves in some way; and there are others, ordinarily
                        well behaved, whom the mere actuality of a party makes drunken. The effect
                        of music, too, upon children is incalculable, especially when they do not
                        hear it oftenand both  a snare-drum and a bass
                        drum were in the expensive orchestra at the Rennsdale party.
                    Nevertheless, the outlawry at any party may remain incipient unless a
                        chieftain appears, but in Penrod's corner were now gathering into
                        one anarchical mood all the necessary qualifications for leadership. Out of
                        that bitter corner there stepped, not a Penrod Schofield subdued and hoping
                        to win the lost favour of the Authorities, but a hot-hearted rebel
                        determined on an uprising.
                    Smiling a reckless and challenging smile, he returned to the cluster of boys
                        in the wide doorway and began to push one and another of them about. They
                        responded hopefully with counter-pushes, and presently there was a
                        tumultuous surging and eddying in that quarter, accompanied by noises which
                        began to compete with the music. Then Penrod allowed himself to be shoved
                        out among the circling dancers, so that he collided with Marjorie and
                        Maurice Levy, almost oversetting them.
                    He made a mock bow and a mock apology, being inspired to invent a jargon
                        phrase.
                    "Excuse me," he said, at the same time making vocal his own
                        conception of a taunting laugh. "Excuse me, but I must
                        'a' got your bumpus!"
                    
                    
                        "He made a mock bow and a mock apology, being inspired to invent
                            a jargon phrase. 'Excuse me,' he said, at the same
                            time making vocal his own conception of a taunting laugh;
                            'excuse me, but I must 'a' got your
                            bumpus!'"
                    
                    
                    Marjorie looked grieved and turned away with Maurice, but the boys in the
                        doorway squealed with maniac laughter.
                    "Gotcher bumpus! Gotcher bumpus!" they shrilled. And they
                        began to push others of their number against the dancing couples, shouting,
                        "'Scuse me! Gotcher bumpus!"
                    It became a contagion and then a game. As the dances went on, strings of
                        boys, led by Penrod, pursued one another across the rooms, howling,
                        "Gotcher bumpus!" at the top of their lungs. They dodged
                        and ducked, and seized upon dancers as shields; they caromed from one couple
                        into another, and even into the musicians of the orchestra. Boys who were
                        dancing abandoned their partners and joined the marauders, shrieking,
                        "Gotcher bumpus!" Potted plants went down; a slender gilt
                        chair refused to support the hurled body of Master Roderick Magsworth Bitts,
                        and the sound of splintering wood mingled with other sounds. Dancing became
                        impossible; Miss Amy Rennsdale wept in the midst of the riot, and everybody
                        knew that Penrod Schofield had "started it."
                    Under instructions, the leader of the orchestra, clapping his hands for
                        attention, stepped to the centre of the drawing-room, and shouted,
                    
                    "A moment silence, if you bleace!"
                    Slowly the hubbub ceased; the virtuous and the wicked paused alike in their
                        courses to listen. Miss Amy Rennsdale was borne away to have her tearful
                        face washed, and Marjorie Jones and Carlie Chitten and Georgie Bassett came
                        forward consciously, escorted by Miss Lowe. The musician waited until the
                        return of the small hostess; then he announced in a loud voice:
                    "A fency dence called 'Les Papillons', denced by
                        Miss Amy Rennstul, Miss Chones, Mister Chorch Passett, ant Mister Jitten.
                        Some young chentlemen haf mate so much noise ant confoosion, Miss Lowe wish
                        me to ask bleace no more such a nonsense. Fency dence, 'Les
                        Papillons.' "
                    Thereupon, after formal salutations, Mr. Chitten took Marjorie's
                        hand, Georgie Bassett took Miss Rennsdale's, and they proceeded to
                        dance "Les Papillons" in a manner which made up in
                        conscientiousness whatever it may have lacked in abandon. The outlaw leader
                        looked on, smiling a smile intended to represent careless contempt, but in
                        reality he was unpleasantly surprised. A fancy dance by Georgie Bassett and
                        Baby Rennsdale was customary at every party attended by members of the
                        Friday Afternoon  Dancing Class, but Marjorie
                        and Carlie Chitten were new performers, and Penrod had not heard that they
                        had learned to dance "Les Papillons" together. He was the
                        further embittered.
                    Carlie made a false step, recovering himself with some difficulty, whereupon
                        a loud, jeering squawk of laughter was heard from the insurgent cluster,
                        which had been awed to temporary quiet but still maintained its base in the
                        drawing-room doorway. There was a general "Sh!" followed by a shocked whispering, as well
                        as a general turning of eyes toward Penrod. But it was not Penrod who had
                        laughed, though no one would have credited him with an alibi. The laughter
                        came from two throats that breathed as one with such perfect
                        simultaneousness that only one was credited with the disturbance. These two
                        throats belonged respectively to Samuel Williams and Maurice Levy, who were
                        standing in a strikingly Rosencrantz-and-Guildenstern attitude.
                    "He got me with his ole tin-box needle, too," Maurice
                        muttered to Sam. "He was goin' to do it to Marjorie, and I
                        told her to look out, and he says, 'Here, you
                        take it!' all of a sudden, and he stuck it in my hand so quick I
                        never thought. And then, bim!
                         his ole needle shot out and perty near went
                        through my thumb-bone or sumpthing. He'll be sorry before this
                        day's over!"
                    "Well," said Sam darkly, "he's
                        goin' to be sorry he stuck me, anyway!"
                        Neither Sam nor Maurice had even the vaguest plan for causing the desired
                        regret in the breast of Master Chitten, but both derived a little
                        consolation from these prophecies. And they, too, had aligned themselves
                        with the insurgents. Their motives were personalCarlie Chitten had wronged
                        both of them, and Carlie was conspicuously in high favour with the
                        Authorities. Naturally Sam and Maurice were against the Authorities.
                    "Les Papillons" came to a conclusion. Carlie and Georgie
                        bowed; Marjorie Jones and Baby Rennsdale courtesied, and there was loud
                        applause. In fact, the demonstration became so uproarious that some measure
                        of it was open to suspicion, especially as hisses of reptilian venomousness
                        were commingled with it, and also a hoarse but vociferous repetition of the
                        dastard words, "Carlie dances rotten!"
                        Again it was the work of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, but the plot was
                        attributed to another.
                    
                        "Shame, Penrod Schofield!" said both the
                        aunts Rennsdale publicly, and Penrod, wholly innocent,  became scarlet with indignant mortification. Carlie Chitten
                        himself, however, marked the true offenders. A slight flush tinted his
                        cheeks, and then, in his quiet, self-contained way, he slipped through the
                        crowd of girls and boys, unnoticed, into the hall, and ran noise-lessly up
                        the stairs and into the "gentlemen's dressing
                        room," now inhabited only by hats, caps, overcoats, and the
                        temporarily discarded shoes of the dancers. Most of the shoes stood in rows
                        against the wall, and Carlie examined these rows attentively, after a time
                        discovering a pair of shoes with patent leather tips. He knew them; they
                        belonged to Maurice Levy, and picking them up, he went to a corner of the
                        room where four shoes had been left together under a chair. Upon the chair
                        were overcoats and caps which he was able to identify as the property of
                        Penrod Schofield and Samuel Williams, but, as he was not sure which pair of
                        shoes belonged to Penrod and which to Sam, he added both pairs to
                        Maurice's and carried them into the bathroom. Here he set the plug
                        in the tub, turned the faucets, and, after looking about him and discovering
                        large supplies of all sorts in a wall cabinet, he tossed six cakes of green
                        soap into the tub. He let the soap remain in the water to soften a little,
                        and, returning to the dressing  room, whiled
                        away the time in mixing and mismating pairs of shoes along the walls, and
                        also in tying the strings of the mismated shoes together in hard knots.
                    Throughout all this, his expression was grave and intent; his bright eyes
                        grew brighter, but he did not smile. Carlie Chitten was a singular boy,
                        though not unique: he was an "only child," lived at a
                        hotel, and found life there favourable to the development of certain
                        peculiarities in his nature. He played a lone hand, and with what precocious
                        diplomacy he played that curious hand was attested by the fact that Carlie
                        was brilliantly esteemed by parents and guardians in general.
                    It must be said for Carlie that, in one way, his nature was liberal. For
                        instance, having come upstairs to prepare a vengenace upon Sam and Maurice
                        in return for their slurs upon his dancing, he did not confine his efforts
                        to the belongings of those two alone. He provided every boy in the house
                        with something to think about later, when shoes should be resumed; and he
                        was far from stopping at that. Casting about him for some material that he
                        desired, he opened a door of the dressing-room and found himself confronting
                        the apartment of Miss Lowe.  Upon a desk he
                        beheld the bottle of mucilage he wanted, and, having taken possession of it,
                        he allowed his eye the privilege of a rapid glance into a dressing table
                        drawer, accidentally left open.
                    He returned to the dressing room, five seconds later, carrying not only the
                        mucilage but a "switch" worn by Miss Lowe when her hair
                        was dressed in a fashion different from that which she had favoured for the
                        party. This "switch" he placed in the pocket of a juvenile
                        overcoat unknown to him, and then he took the mucilage into the bathroom.
                        There he rescued from the water the six cakes of soap, placed one in each of
                        the six shoes, pounding it down securely into the toe of the shoe with the
                        handle of a back brush. After that, Carlie poured mucilage into all six
                        shoes impartially until the bottle was empty, then took them back to their
                        former positions in the dressing room. Finally, with careful forethought, he
                        placed his own shoes in the pockets of his overcoat, and left the overcoat
                        and his cap upon a chair near the outer door of the room. Then he went
                        quietly downstairs, having been absent from the festivities a little less
                        than twelve minutes. He had been energeticonly a boy could have accomplished
                        so much in so short a time. In fact, Carlie had been  so busy that his forgetting to turn off the faucets in the
                        bathroom is not at all surprising.
                    No one had noticed his absence. That infectious pastime, "Gotcher
                        bumpus," had broken out again, and the general dancing, which had
                        been resumed upon the conclusion of "Les Papillons," was
                        once more becoming demoralized. Despairingly the aunts Rennsdale and Miss
                        Lowe brought forth from the rear of the house a couple of waiters and
                        commanded them to arrest the ringleaders, whereupon hilarious terror spread
                        among the outlaw band. Shouting tauntingly at their pursuers, they fledand
                        bellowing, trampling flight swept through every quarter of the house.
                    Refreshments quelled this outbreak for a time. The orchestra played a march;
                        Carlie Chitten and Georgie Bassett, with Amy Rennsdale and Marjorie, formed
                        the head of a procession, while all the boys who had retained their sense of
                        decorum immediately sought partners and fell in behind. The outlaws,
                        succumbing to ice cream hunger, followed suit, one after the other, until
                        all of the girls were provided with escorts. Then, to the moral strains of
                        "The Stars and Stripes Forever," the children paraded out
                        to the dining-room. Two and two they marched, 
                        except at the extreme tail end of the line, where, since there were three
                        more boys than girls at the party, the three left-over boys were placed.
                        These three were also the last three outlaws to succumb and return to
                        civilization from outlying portions of the house after the pursuit by
                        waiters. They were Messieurs Maurice Levy, Samuel Williams, and Penrod
                        Schofield.
                    They took their chairs in the capacious dining room quietly enough, though
                        their expressions were eloquent of bravado, and they jostled one another and
                        their neighbours intentionally, even in the act of sitting. However, it was
                        not long before delectable foods engaged their whole attention and Miss Amy
                        Rennsdale's party relapsed into etiquette for the following twenty
                        minutes. The refection concluded with the mild explosion of paper
                        "crackers," which erupted bright-coloured, fantastic
                        head-gear, and during the snapping of the "crackers,"
                        Penrod heard the voice of Marjorie calling from somewhere behind him,
                        "Carlie and Amy, will you change chairs with Georgie Bassett and
                        mejust for fun?" The chairs had been placed in rows, back to back,
                        and Penrod would not even turn his head to see if Master Chitten and Miss
                        Rennsdale accepted  Marjorie's
                        proposal, though they were directly behind him and Sam, but he grew red and
                        breathed hard. A moment later, the liberty-cap which he had set upon his
                        head was softly removed, and a little crown of silver paper put in its
                        place.
                    
                        "Penrod?"
                    
                    The whisper was close to his ear, and a gentle breath cooled the back of his
                        neck.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    THE HEART OF MARJORIE JONES
                    
                        WELL, what you want?" Penrod asked, brusquely.
                    Marjorie's wonderful eyes were dark and mysterious, like still water
                        at twilight.
                    "What makes you behave so awful?" she
                        whispered.
                    "I don't either! I guess I got a right to do the way I want
                        to, haven't I?"
                    "Well, anyway," said Marjorie, "you ought to quit
                        bumping into people so it hurts."
                    "Poh! It wouldn't hurt a fly!"
                    "Yes, it did. It hurt when you bumped Maurice and me that
                        time."
                    "It didn't either. Where'd it
                        hurt you? Let's see if it"
                    "Well, I can't show you, but it did. Penrod, are you going
                        to keep on?"
                    Penrod's heart had melted within him, but his reply was pompous and
                        cold. "I will if I feel like  it, and
                        I won't if I feel like it. You wait and see."
                    But Marjorie jumped up and ran around to him abandoning her escort. All the
                        children were leaving their chairs and moving toward the dancing-rooms; the
                        orchestra was playing dance-music again.
                    "Come on, Penrod!" Marjorie cried. "Let's
                        go dance this together. Come on!"
                    With seeming reluctance, he suffered her to lead him away. "Well,
                        I'll go with you, but I won't dance," he said.
                        "I wouldn't dance with the President of the United
                        States!"
                    "Why, Penrod?"
                    "Wellbecausewell, I won't do
                        it!"
                    "All right. I don't care. I guess I've danced
                        plenty, anyhow. Let's go in here." She led him into a room
                        too small for dancing, used ordinarily by Miss Amy Rennsdale's papa
                        as his study, and now vacant. For a while there was silence, but finally
                        Marjorie pointed to the window and said shyly:
                    "Look, Penrod, it's getting dark. The party'll be
                        over pretty soon, and you've never danced one single
                        time!"
                    
                    "Well, I guess I know that, don't I?"
                    He was unable to cast aside his outward truculence, though it was but a
                        relic. However, his voice was gentler, and Marjorie seemed satisfied. From
                        the other rooms came the swinging music, shouts of "Gotcher
                        bumpus!" sounds of stumbling, of scrambling, of running, of muffled
                        concussions, and squeals of dismay. Penrod's followers were
                        renewing the wild work, even in the absence of their chief.
                    "Penrod Schofield, you bad boy," said Marjorie,
                        "you started every bit of that! You ought to be ashamed of
                        yourself."
                    "I didn't do anything," he
                        saidand he believed it. "Pick on me for everything!"
                    "Well, they wouldn't if you didn't do so
                        much," said Marjorie.
                    "They would, too."
                    "They wouldn't, either. Who would?"
                    "That Miss Lowe," he specified bitterly. "Yes, and
                        Baby Rennsdale's aunts. If the house'd burn down, I bet
                        they'd say Penrod Schofield did it! Anybody does anything at all, they say, 'Penrod Schofield, shame on
                        you!' When you and Carlie were dan"
                    "Penrod, I just hate that little Carlie Chitten.  P'fesser Bartet made me learn that
                        dance with him, but I just hate him."
                    Penrod was now almost completely mollified; nevertheless, he continued to set
                        forth his grievance. "Well, they all turned around to me and they
                        said, 'Why, Penrod Schofield, shame on you!' And I
                        hadn't done a single thing! I was just standin' there.
                        They got to blame me, though!"
                    Marjorie laughed airily. "Well, if you aren't the
                        foolishest"
                    "They would, too," he asserted, with renewed bitterness.
                        "If the house was to fall down, you'd see! They'd
                        all say"
                    Marjorie interrupted him. She put her hand on the top of her head, looking a
                        little startled.
                    "What's that?" she said.
                    "What's what?"
                    "Like rain!" Marjorie cried. "Like it was raining
                        in here! A drop fell on my"
                    "Why, it couldn't" he began. But at this instant a
                        drop fell upon his head, too, and, looking up, they beheld a great oozing
                        splotch upon the ceiling. Drops were gathering upon it and falling; the
                        tinted plaster was cracking, and a little stream began to patter down and
                        splash upon the floor.  Then there came a
                        resounding thump upstairs, just above them, and fragments of wet plaster
                        fell.
                    "The roof must be leaking," said Marjorie, beginning to be
                        alarmed.
                    "Couldn't be the roof," said Penrod.
                        "Besides there ain't any rain outdoors."
                    As he spoke, a second slender stream of water began to patter upon the floor
                        of the hall outside the door.
                    "Good gracious!" Marjorie cried, while the ceiling above
                        them shook as with earthquakeor as with boys in numbers jumping, and a great
                        uproar burst forth overhead.
                    "I believe the house is falling down,
                        Penrod!" she quavered.
                    "Well, they'll blame me for it!"
                        he said. "Anyways, we better get out o' here. I guess
                        sumpthing must be the matter."
                    His guess was accurate, so far as it went. The dance-music had swung into
                        "Home Sweet Home" some time before, the children were
                        preparing to leave, and Master Chitten had been the first boy to ascend to
                        the gentlemen's dressing-room for his cap, overcoat, and shoes, his
                        motive being to avoid by departure any difficulty in case his earlier
                        activities  should cause him to be suspected
                        by the other boys. But in the doorway he halted, aghast.
                    The lights had not been turned on, but even the dim windows showed that the
                        polished floor gave back reflections no floor-polish had ever equalled. It
                        was a gently steaming lake, from an eighth to a quarter of an inch deep. And
                        Carlie realized that he had forgotten to turn off the faucets in the
                        bathroom.
                    For a moment, his savoir faire deserted him, and he was
                        filled with ordinary, human-boy panic. Then, at a sound of voices behind
                        him, he lost his head and rushed into the bathroom. It was dark, but certain
                        sensations and the splashing of his pumps warned him that the water was
                        deeper in there. The next instant the lights were switched on in both
                        bathroom and dressing-room, and Carlie beheld Sam Williams in the doorway of
                        the former.
                    "Oh, look, Maurice!" Sam shouted, in frantic excitement.
                        "Somebody's let the tub run over, and it's about
                        ten feet deep! Carlie Chitten's sloshin' around in here.
                        Let's hold the door on him and keep him in!"
                    Carlie rushed to prevent the execution of this project, but he slipped and
                        went swishing full length  along the floor,
                        creating a little surf before him as he slid, to the demoniac happiness of
                        Sam and Maurice. They closed the door, however, and, as other boys rushed,
                        shouting and splashing, into the flooded dressing-room, Carlie began to
                        hammer upon the panels. Then the owners of shoes, striving to rescue them
                        from the increasing waters, made discoveries.
                    The most dangerous time to give a large children's party is when
                        there has not been one for a long period. The Rennsdale party had that
                        misfortune, and its climax was the complete and convulsive madness of the
                        gentlemen's dressing-room during those final moments supposed to be
                        given to quiet preparations, on the part of guests, for departure.
                    In the upper hall and upon the stairway, panic-stricken little girls
                        listened, wild-eyed, to the uproar that went on, while waiters and maid
                        servants rushed with pails and towels into what was essentially the worst
                        ward in Bedlam. Boys who had behaved properly all afternoon now gave way and
                        joined the confraternity of lunatics. The floors of the house shook to
                        tramplings, rushes, wrestlings, falls, and collisions. The walls resounded
                        to chorused bellowings  and roars. There were
                        pipings of pain and pipings of joy; there was whistling to pierce the drums
                        of ears; there were hootings and howlings and bleatings and screechings,
                        while over all bleated the heathen battle-cry incessantly: "Gotcher bumpus! Gotcher bumpus!" For the boys
                        had been inspired by the unusual water to transform Penrod's game
                        of "Gotcher bumpus" into an aquatic sport, and to induce
                        one another, by means of superior force, dexterity, or stratagems, either to
                        sit or to lie at full length in the flood, after the example of Carlie
                        Chitten.
                    One of the aunts Rennsdale had taken what charge she could of the deafened
                        and distracted maids and waiters who were working to stem the tide, while
                        the other of the aunts Rennsdale stood with her niece and Miss Lowe at the
                        foot of the stairs, trying to say good-night reassuringly to those of the
                        terrified little girls who were able to tear themselves away. This latter
                        aunt Rennsdale marked a dripping figure which came unobtrusively, and yet in
                        a self-contained and gentlemanly manner, down the stairs.
                    "Carlie Chitten!" she cried. "You poor dear child,
                        you're soaking! To think those outrageous little fiends
                        wouldn't even spare you!" As she  spoke, another departing male guest came from
                        behind Carlie and placed in her hand a snakelike articlea thing which Miss
                        Lowe seized and concealed with one sweeping gesture.
                    "It's some false hair somebody must of put in my overcoat
                        pocket," said Roderick Magsworth Bitts. "Well,
                        g'-night. Thank you for a very nice time."
                    "Good-night, Miss Rennsdale," said Master Chitten demurely.
                        "Thank you for a"
                    But Miss Rennsdale detained him.
                    "Carlie," she said earnestly, "you're a
                        dear boy, and I know you'll tell me something. It was all Penrod
                        Schofield, wasn't it?"
                    "You mean he left the"
                    "I mean," she said, in a low tone, not altogether devoid of
                        ferocity, "I mean it was Penrod who left the faucets running, and
                        Penrod who tied the boys' shoes together, and filled some of them
                        with soap and mucilage, and put Miss Lowe's hair in Roddy
                        Bitts's overcoat. No; look me in the eye, Carlie! They were all
                        shouting that silly thing he started. Didn't he do it?"
                    Carlie cast down thoughtful eyes. "I wouldn't like to tell,
                        Miss Rennsdale," he said. "I guess I  better be going or I'll catch cold. Thank you for a
                        very nice time."
                    "There!" said Miss Rennsdale vehemently, as Carlie went on
                        his way. "What did I tell you? Carlie Chitten's too manly
                        to say it, but I just know it was that terrible Penrod
                        Schofield."
                    Behind her, a low voice, unheard by all except the person to whom it spoke,
                        repeated a part of this speech: "What did I tell you?"
                    This voice belonged to one Penrod Schofield.
                    Penrod and Marjorie had descended by another stairway, and he now considered
                        it wiser to pass to the rear of the little party at the foot of the stairs.
                        As he was still in his pumps, his choked shoes occupying his overcoat
                        pockets, he experienced no difficulty in reaching the front door, and
                        getting out of it unobserved, although the noise upstairs was greatly
                        abated. Marjorie, however, made her courtesies and farewells in a creditable
                        manner.
                    "There!" said Penrod again, when she rejoined him in the
                        darkness outside. "What did I tell you? Didn't I say
                        I'd get the blame of it, no matter if the house went and fell down?
                        I s'pose they think I put mucilage and soap in my own
                        shoes."
                    Marjorie delayed at the gate until some eagerly  talking little girls had passed out. The name "Penrod
                        Schofield" was thick and scandalous among them.
                    "Well," said Marjorie, "I
                        wouldn't care, Penrod. 'Course, about soap and mucilage in
                            your shoes, anybody'd know some other boy
                        must of put 'em there to get even for what you put in
                        his."
                    Penrod gasped.
                    "But I didn't!" he cried.
                        "I didn't do anything! That ole Miss
                        Rennsdale can say what she wants to, I didn't do a"
                    "Well, anyway, Penrod," said Marjorie, softly,
                        "they can't ever prove it was
                        you."
                    He felt himself suffocating in a coil against which no struggle availed.
                    "But I never did it!" he wailed,
                        helplessly. "I never did anything at all!"
                    She leaned toward him a little, and the lights from her waiting carriage
                        illumined her dimly, but enough for him to see that her look was fond and
                        proud, yet almost awed.
                    "Anyway, Penrod," she whispered, "I don't believe there's any other boy in
                        the whole world could of done half as much!"
                    And with that she left him, and ran out to the carriage.
                    
                    But Penrod remained by the gate to wait for Sam, and the burden of his
                        sorrows was beginning to lift. In fact, he felt a great deal better, in
                        spite of his having just discovered why Marjorie loved him.
                
                THE END
            
        
    
